ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimik from 16.30 p.m., Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Violeta Tomić from 16:00 p.m., Mrs. Ljudmila Novak, Mrs. Andreja Potočnik, Mrs. Eva Irgl, Mr. Ivan Hršak, Dr. Milan Brglez from 16:00 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Han, Mr. Matjaž German, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Dr. Franc Trček, Miha Kordiš, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 16:00 on, Mr. Janez Janša, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Dr. Ange Logar, Mr. Branko Zorman, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Mr Jože Tanko from 5 p.m. and Mr Uroš Prikl from 4.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday 3 February 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, the proposal recommended to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the problem of workers and carriers involved in the work in the Republic of Austria. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 24 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank thanked the State Assembly for having held a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Work, Family and Social Affairs, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It has been 60 years since six countries, namely France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, signed the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community in Rome on 25 March 1957. At that time it was a document that created the common European market and laid the foundations for four European freedoms: the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services. According to former German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, who signed the contract on behalf of Germany, it was probably the greatest postwar event. With the document, six countries wanted to upgrade cooperation – the elimination of customs duties and quantitative restrictions on trade between members of the European Economic Community and the introduction of a common customs tariff to third countries were therefore the basis for the establishment of a common European market. In addition to the introduction of the four fundamental freedoms mentioned above, countries have also decided to adopt a common agricultural and transport policy and to establish a system to ensure that there will be no distortion of competition in the internal market. States have also made a contract to harmonise economic policies and bring legislation closer to the extent that would ensure the functioning of our common market. 60 years later, the following month will be 60 years after the signing of this Treaty, respected colleagues and colleagues, and we note that as of 1 January 2017, when the new Law on the Prevention of Dumping in Salaries and Social Contributions entered into force in Austria, the conditions for the cross-border management of services have become even more severe for foreign companies. For foreign service providers, including Slovenian companies, this is a number of obstacles, since the new Austrian law not only prevents unfair competition, social dumping, but mainly through complicated procedures, additional bureaucratic obstacles, tighter controls and high penalties discourage foreign service providers and consequently prevent the provision of services on the Austrian market. Our craftsmen and entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs who provide services across borders in Austria, have already received high penalties before the new year for missing documents and their translations into German. Although delivered within the deadline, the Austrian financial police charged them with additional penalties with different excuses, such as the inadequate amount of the hourly item and the inadequate allocation of workers to the Austrian payment teams. With 1. 1. In Austria, however, a new law has entered into force which provides for even higher penalties, as well as a ban on the cross-border provision of services in Austria, which further makes cross-border operations in Austria more difficult for our entrepreneurs. According to information, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and also a number of transport companies, which provide the largest number of construction services in neighbouring Austria, Austria has also begun to closely monitor the transport sector, which has so far operated without major obstacles in international transport between countries. In doing so, Austria should treat the bilateral transport of goods and passengers carried out by employed drivers in Slovenian carriers as posted workers. Among other things, on 10 January 2017, the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce addressed a letter to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the competent members of the Government, in particular to the Minister for Economic Development of Mr. Zdravka Počivalska, Minister of Infrastructure of Dr. Petr Gasperšić, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr. Karl Erjavac and to Mrs. Anjo Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. They were reminded of the announced measures of the Republic of Austria in the field of international bilateral transport of goods and passengers, which would significantly make it difficult for Slovenian road hauliers to carry out international transport of goods and services in the territory of the Republic of Austria. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for resolving this problem, has been asked to actively involve the resolution of the situation which may lead to a stalemate of economic cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria. The main problems that the two Chambers referred to in some way and that concern the carriers in the first place were as follows. Firstly, entrepreneurs who provide services across borders in Austria receive high penalties for missing documents and their translations into German anger. Although they are delivered within the deadline, the Austrian financial police charge them additional penalties and again for different reasons, such as the inadequate amount of the item and the inadequate allocation of workers to the Austrian pay grade. Secondly, in the Republic of Austria they have the so-called BUAK Fund. We do not have this in Slovenia, but our entrepreneurs are obliged to pay contributions to the construction fund from the very beginning if they provide construction services. If we also set up a similar fund in Slovenia, our entrepreneurs would be exempt from paying contributions to the construction fund not only in Austria but also elsewhere in Europe. This would provide additional guarantees and guarantees for our workers working in the construction sector, not only in the Republic of Slovenia, but also in other European markets. Thirdly, the Republic of Austria has a new exercise of increased control over Slovenian construction companies under Regulation (EC) No. 883/2004, which provides that when the worker completes the period of deployment, it is not possible to approve a new period of assignment for the same worker, the same undertaking in the same Member State until the previous period of deployment expires at least two months. Derogation from this principle is nevertheless permitted under special circumstances. Since our entrepreneurs work in various construction sites, they cannot complete this as agreed with the contracting authorities, because this legal provision prevents our entrepreneurs from doing the works. In the event that they do not comply with the European Union's legal provision, they are again exposed to fines by the Austrian financial police. According to information, some have already withdrawn from Austria, as high penalties have even led to the dismissal of workers. If carriers from the Republic of Slovenia are treated as posted workers, this rule will therefore apply to carriers. Fourthly, Slovenia lacks different professions. The Slovenian construction profession mainly mentions ironclads and other construction workers, so entrepreneurs who receive business through Austrian companies should employ third-country nationals. When Slovenian construction companies want to send third-country nationals to Austria, they face a range of problems caused by the Austrian Employment Service, AMS or Arbeitsmarktservice. For in the last two years, it has been mass rejecting the application forms of Slovenian companies ZKO3, which employ these citizens. The reason for the return should be the legal basis in the European Directive. The entrepreneur has a job, but unfortunately he cannot be analysed for blocking the Austrian Arbeitsmarktservice, which is an employment agency that essentially blocks the employment of a third-country worker in this company. In view of the fact that Austria is setting up blockades at all stages, it is certainly necessary to solve the problem in another way. The additional problem is that entrepreneurs already have contracts signed in advance, but unfortunately because of certain administrative obstacles they cannot implement contracts, which is why they have already been cancelled. Therefore, such entrepreneurs often opt for other markets such as Germany, Belgium and the United Kingdom, and especially for markets outside the European Union, since in this case they often go to work in the United States. The problem is also that they are workers who are third-country nationals. Some have long been employed in Slovenian companies, i.e. in Slovenia, even after more than 10 years, and have a uniform residence and work permit, yet the Austrian authority of Arbeitsmarktservice further examines them, making it difficult to provide services to a Slovenian company or an entrepreneur. Petić, foreign craftsmen from Croatia, Hungary and third countries work in Slovenia not only among workers, but also on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays. You can take a look at the work that takes place on one of the towers in the center of Ljubljana, where they set up a new hotel. Thus, our entrepreneurs are forced to work in Austria. Therefore, foreign entrepreneurs and their employees are not under the same strict control as our entrepreneurs in Austria. In carrying out cross-border operations, these companies are obliged to comply with Slovenian legislation, the Commercial Law and the payment of workers after Slovenian KP construction activities. The question is also raised whether these companies comply with the provisions of the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act, that all documentation should be kept at the place of service translated into Slovenian. Above all, these companies are not subject to such penalties and strict supervision as Slovenian companies in Austria, where competition in Slovenia forces them to search for orders. They are not forced to search for orders solely for competition in Slovenia. In Slovenia they are also forced to search for orders because the current government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the favourable economic climate, has not yet started a new investment cycle, which is a major economic growth, especially our neighbouring country. That's why our companies are forced to work abroad, to look for work abroad. Most of our carriers – 18 000 in this sector – together contribute 17% of the gross social product. They too must be found in foreign markets. We can see, colleagues and colleagues, that amendments to the legislation in the Republic of Austria constitute a step up of control over all posted workers, with changes representing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u4	the greatest problem for carriers which should not be treated in the same way as posted workers because of the objective circumstances in which they perform their work. [[…]] It's the same. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u6	the application of the new Austrian measures is still quite ambiguity. [[…]] At the same time, the rules for which service providers do not even know in essence are constantly changing, such as the calculation of new wages for working time in the Republic of Austria on the basis of changing Austrian circumstances.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Finally, honourable President, we have proposed three recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to decide at the meeting of the National Assembly as a candidate both in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in Novi Slovenija. The first recommendation was somehow rejected on the parental committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u10	The second recommendation to the Government was somehow reversed and I will propose it later in the discussion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, practical examples of problems which burden our entrepreneurs and carriers in Austria, and I will also present during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u11	In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear government officials, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The New Slovenia Group is co-signatory of the recommendations and also of the requests for a meeting of the National Assembly. The problem is acute. Already in the substantive debate at the parental committee meeting, I have tried to outline the historical context of this area. After two years of the February 2006 procedure, the European Parliament approved, by a large majority, a report on legislation establishing a common market for services in the first reading. Services, colleagues and colleagues are the largest economic sector in contact. European legislation has a very clear purpose, and this is a barrier to the free movement of services. The free movement of services is one of the four fundamental freedoms in the internal market of the European Union and one of the principles of the 1957 Treaty of Rome, in addition to the free movement of persons, the free movement of goods and the free movement of capital. Significantly, next month we will remember the 60-year-olds of the Treaties of Rome, the official Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community. Once again, I would like to point out that we have neither the slightest intention nor the right to interfere with the internal arrangements of the neighbouring sovereign Republic of Austria. It is true, however, that the new Austrian legislation has been on the rise for a long time and we have expected that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will closely monitor the drafting of legislation that is already having a negative impact on Slovenian service providers in Austria. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be careful to ensure that the new Austrian legislation regulating the market for services is fully in line with the European legal order, in particular that it does not infringe the free movement of services in the single European market. New Slovenia is on the side of the Slovenian economy. We therefore closely monitor the difficulties of Slovenian economic operators in the provision of services in Austria. We believe that this legislation is a new obstacle to the free movement of services, which has clearly proved particularly after 1. 1. 2017 and practically closed the door to Slovenian service providers in Austria. We are confident – and I hope not – that in this situation we are all on the side of the Slovenian economy, not only the proponents of these recommendations and the meetings of the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has many levers to verify that Austrian legislation is within the framework of the European acquis. At the first meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy this year, on 18 January, I asked the Foreign Minister what the Government had already done in solving this issue, or what kind of contacts with the Austrian authorities, and what plan the Government has in the future. Minister Karl Erjavec replied that he had already carried out some activities in this respect last year, but he said, of course, that the problem covers several sources, besides the external one, at least the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Development. In this context, the decision of the New Slovenia Group to co-signature the request for a special meeting of the National Assembly was logical. I must also mention that we are disappointed that the coalition has somehow destroyed our proposals for recommendations, at least one even with a questionable explanation that the proposed content has already been implemented. The first decision was: 'The Government, together with representatives of both Chambers, shall prepare, as soon as possible, measures to safeguard the interests of Slovenian service providers in the Republic of Austria at bilateral level with the Republic of Austria under European Union law'. It would be very good, and it would be imperative that this is already realized, but that is not true. Ask the economy if you don't believe us. The Group of 117 companies and craftsmen has lodged a complaint with the European Commission on the grounds of amendments to Austrian legislation which has exacerbated the conditions for the provision of services in Austria. Their lawyer, in his new rules as controversial, underlines, inter alia, the requirement that the service provider must keep the payment and other documentation in his possession, including in the case of short-term services. For example, if a duck or a ski teacher asks him to do so, he will have to show the required papers at any time. This is even so far away that this should also apply to carriers, which is particularly worrying. We want the proposers to respect European legislation absolutely, otherwise the European Union and the Member States harm themselves. There is too much populism in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. There's too much protectionism. In fact, this also leads to Euroscepticism. Colleagues and colleagues, let us help our Slovenian economy and encourage the Government to carry out its duties quickly and effectively in the interest of Slovenia and in the interests of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u13	The proposal for a recommendation was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 50th emergency meeting. 2. as a parent working body, the Proposal for a Recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the issue of posted workers and carriers in the performance of their work in the Republic of Austria, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed colleague, Jozet Tank. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Infrastructure and the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal for a recommendation in terms of its competence or compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made comments to points 1 and 3 of the Recommendation. In the view of the Government, it was pointed out that, in fact, Slovenian service providers have faced a number of difficulties in their day-to-day operations in the neighbouring Republic of Austria since the second half of last year. Measures taken and planned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reduce this problem in the Republic of Austria have been presented. The activities on this issue have been described in more detail, which are faced by Slovenian companies and craftsmen who provide services across borders in Austria. The competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia therefore resolve the problem in several ways and at different levels, both in the medium term, in the short term and in the long term. On behalf of the applicants, a further explanation was also presented by colleague Breznik and colleague Jožef Horvat. In the debate itself, it was pointed out that the Anti-Payment and Social Dumping Act, which entered into force in Austria, was in force. January, to severely tighten certain conditions of work of Slovenian craftsmen and carriers in Austria. It has been pointed out that the measures are disproportionate to European regulations and that they have mainly been subject to very high fines for violators. In the opinion of the discussers, Austrian companies do not have such restrictions on us, so it is also necessary to consider compensatory measures if the matter cannot be resolved in any other way. It was also pointed out that the applicants for an extraordinary meeting do not wish to interfere with Austria's internal legal arrangements, but they want to know whether the new Austrian legislation is indeed in line with European law. In the opinion of many debaters, this is an arrangement which is inadmissible in the area of the right to free movement of services, which is one of the fundamental values of the European Union. Some debaters also highlighted the role of the European Commissioner for Transport. The following proposal was made to inform the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, who will visit us in the spring. It has been pointed out that the loss of confidence in the EU in the current situation is not good, which we should be aware of mainly or also in Brussels. It was also stressed that dialogue with the Brussels institutions should continue and, according to the assurances made by the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our country's Permanent Representation in Brussels has been instructed to support the complaints lodged with the European Commission. We agreed that Austria is a very important economic partner for Slovenia, but we cannot allow violations of something that should apply or should apply equally to all Member States. Following the discussion, the Committee, on the basis of the opinion of the Government and also pointed out that the amendment opinion of the ZPS had drawn on points 1 and 3 of the Recommendation and amended or slightly amended point 2 of the Recommendation. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts of the act together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal for an act in which amendments are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, the amended proposal for an act is an integral part of this report, which I have tried to present briefly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u15	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Peter Pogačar, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The issue of cross-border provision of services with posted workers in practice, with which Slovenian service providers in the Republic of Austria, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been monitoring with all due diligence for some time in recent years, including on the basis of initiatives and meetings with various economic associations and individual stakeholders, in particular in the field of transport. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia emphasises that today's debate must primarily be based on the principle of respect for the four forms of freedoms already laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely freedom to provide services, the free movement of persons and goods and the free movement of capital. This is, in our firm belief, one of the foundations of the functioning of the internal market of the European Union. Freedom to provide services means the right of undertakings from one Member State to provide services in another Member State and thereby the right to temporarily send their workers to another Member State, irrespective of their nationality. Given that the implementation of new legislation in the field of prevention of social and wage dumping in the Republic of Austria, the Slovenian economy is faced with serious administrative complications or the imposition of high disproportionate and multiple fines for petty offences in the provision of services, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that such practices of the Austrian authorities could have negative effects not only on the extent of cross-border service delivery but, consequently, on the whole of the Slovenian economy. We must not forget, however, that these strict administrative measures and strict criminal policy are intended primarily to protect and protect the rights of posted workers at a time when they are assigned to work in another Member State. In the past, in the field of posting workers to other Member States there have been a number of violations of labour law, non-payment of wages, violations of their rights. Measures to protect the rights of posted workers are within the competence of each Member State and are certainly necessary, but we believe that there must be no excuse for restricting the free movement of services within the European Union. Accordingly, I can argue that Slovenia also has in its legislation governing this area a number of requirements for service providers regarding the protection of the rights of posted workers. Allow me to mention, in addition to the already implemented, some of the key planned activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to limit the negative effects on the Slovenian economy with regard to the implementation of the measures of the Republic of Austria. Yesterday, via the Embassy of Poland in Vienna, the V4 and Slovenia sent a special letter to the competent ministers in the Republic of Austria, representatives of Austrian economic associations and representatives of the European Commission in Austria. This letter exposes the support and cooperation of the signatory countries in sanctioning the alleged abuses of Austrian law and at the same time expresses concern about the very implementation of the new legislation by the Austrian supervisory authorities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will provide active support to the submitted complaints by Slovenian companies on behalf of Slovenian companies submitted by the law firm from Celovac. In the transport sector, the Republic of Slovenia will continue to advocate in the discussions on amending the directive on referrals to exempt transport from the scope of this Directive, as we estimate that transport does not fall within the scope of the system of posting of workers, as is already the case for commercial navy crews today. In order to address the problem of international road transport, we will endeavour to resolve this in the context of the procedure for amending the rules on road transport and social legislation to be launched by the European Commission in 2017. The government will closely monitor the process of assessing the compliance of the new Austrian legislation with EU law, and, last but not least, the Republic of Slovenia has the possibility of initiating a procedure against the Republic of Austria at the Court of Justice of the European Union, provided that there is no agreement within a reasonable time that will allow Slovenian companies to carry out cross-border service delivery in the Republic of Austria in accordance with the applicable rules at EU level. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to monitor developments closely and will do everything possible to protect the rights of workers and the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u17	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! The exploitation and embezzlement of the labour force, the fraud of the country, the labour accidents with severe consequences and often fatalities – about a year and a half ago, workers joined the Slovenian Union of Mobile Workers, at the Confederation of Independent Unions, marked the situation in the transport industry. The Government's recommendations, which we are considering today, are based on the tightening and consistent implementation of the Austrian Law on the Prevention of Social and Wage Dumping. Just in case, I'll repeat: prevention of social and wage dumping. This means preventing the provision and provision of services by paying poor wages, working in poor working conditions and often not paying wages in general. It is true that, by tightening the provisions of this Act, its consistent implementation and tighter inspection controls have placed domestic carriers in the privileged position, but the primary purpose of the Act is, once again, to stress, to prevent social and wage dumping. The purpose of this Act is to ensure equal pay for the same work done. Such a law and its consistent implementation can only be welcomed in the United Left. Domestic capital representatives feel, of course, hurt because Austrians protect their domestic workers from social dumping abroad. Through their recommendations, they try to force the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resist this by all means. This is not surprising, because it is the representatives of capital who created these social dumping by creating the punitive working conditions in which drivers have to work. The country, of course, went very far here. It is very likely that if our domestic carriers did not force people to work for poor money under poor working conditions, even the Austrians would not sharpen their legislation. It is absurd, however, that Austrian legislation actually saves social dumping in our country, because employers are now forced to order wages and pay contributions regularly for workers, and the worst thing for them is that, during their travel in Austria, they must now pay even the same Austrian salary and not our minimum wage. As a result of the new Austrian legislation, our companies working in construction and transport are most affected and rightly so. According to the Austrian Fund BUAK, 39% of all construction violations were found in Slovenian companies last year due to the incorrect payment of salaries. The Austrian courts are quite frankly writing about why such high penalties are being imposed and also correctly interpreting the purpose of this legislation. As long as the penalties were low, all those who today are the loudest about unbearable administrative obstacles and high penalties have violated this legislation with a light heart. The penalties for infringements were lower than the profits that the infringements brought. Thus, some companies could have had virtually open lifespans to pay these fines on a regular basis under labour law, which, of course, continued to be in breach and breach. Workers worked for less money than was prescribed by law, contributions were not paid and so on. They just have to. The recommendations are therefore already flawed in their core, and from them there is a neoliberal spirit that sets the free market as the highest value. Instead of asking the Government to break legislation protecting workers – not only Austrian but also Slovenian – from social dumping, they should even follow Austrian legislation and its implementation. Such recommendations would be even more appropriate because the representatives of our executive branch of government openly acknowledge that they do not implement the laws that are in force with us. In its reply to the parliamentary question concerning the alleged discriminatory conditions faced by Slovenian companies in Austria, the government stated: "It is necessary to stress that Slovenian legislation also requires comparable documents and documents from foreign service providers, as required by Austrian legislation, as well as fines in Slovenia, as envisaged by the new Law on Cross-border Service Implementation, which is currently at first reading in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, are high." The legislation is therefore practically the same with us in government words, and it is stuck in its implementation or implementation of legislation, as the Head of the Services Sector at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology said on the national radio on 31 January, "the cancer of the Slovenian government or Slovenian society, because we are not as proactive as the Austrians in this respect. You know, it's now from this experience that we have, or from this testimony that we get from companies, that's where the company, the Slovenian company, comes to the Austrian market, to some construction site, and is visited within a good hour by all possible inspectors, who are coming to him as a Slovenian entrepreneur. There's no such thing happening to us. Now that's the question why not." The representative of the executive authority openly acknowledges that we do not have legislation in place. At the same time, he wonders why it is not being implemented. It is an unprecedented arrogance that we can only witness to when it comes to implementing legislation that protects the rights of the weaker in the labour market. With this, the Government clearly tells our and foreign employers that everything is allowed, even what is explicitly forbidden. Let them come and do what they want, though the punishments are high, but let them not be afraid because the legislation is not being implemented anyway. Our carriers on the Austrian market are causing social dumping. There can be no doubt about this because social dumping is also causing in our own, internal market. Transporters are increasingly hiring workers from poorer European countries, particularly Bulgaria and Romania. You're willing to work more for less money. This leads to social dumping and, at the same time, unfair competition between the two. We can watch the game to the bottom, where the competition is mainly about who will offer as little labour and material costs as possible and thus take away the business from the other and ensure that they earn as much and faster a profit as possible. At the Ministry of Infrastructure in July 2015, they confirmed this by commenting that we have "unfair competition between motorists themselves due to very low service prices on the one hand and non-compliance with legal rules on the other." The Ministry is aware of the non-compliance with the law, but since then they have done nothing to remedy it. We now blame the Austrians, who have done something about non-compliance with legislation by Slovenian motorists. Workers in the road transport industry are increasingly being exploited, from taxis to large-scale truck drivers in international traffic. Pays are often not charged in accordance with the law. The driver often receives a minimum wage and therefore also has a contract of employment concluded and is actually paid after a mile and the tariff is expected to be between 10 and 15 cents per kilometer. The difference between the minimum wage and the actual mileage is paid on hand, like a daily allowance or under a strange contract. This minimum wage is then also considered to be a pension base. The net payment often includes all the costs incurred by the driver on the way, from the shower, the evening meal, and so on. Payment is also practiced by computerised and not actually made by kilometres. There are frauds with tachographs that, for example, at the time of unloading the load, often carried out by the driver himself, show rest. Workers are often penalized for damage to trucks, even though these are insured. Savings on costs also means saving on trucks. It is not rare that trucks are not technically faultless and are a serious threat to traffic on the road. Under even more permeable conditions than international freight forward drivers, drivers are in other transport industries. The first and perhaps the media most exposed are drivers in out-of-way transport that drive people to the surrounding airports. They drive vehicles for which the use of the tachograph is not prescribed and therefore there is no control over how long these people spend on the road and how long they rest. There are practically no employees in this business. There are some roof information platforms that organize transports and drivers are self-employed, students, employees through a business contract or other holiday forms of employment. They are paid after a mile, and they drive after eight hours in one piece with minimal breaks, even every day of the week. Social security, these workers don't have any. Most drivers are not licensed to carry passengers. They are forced to work hard to earn as much as they can, so of course they are willing to eat up a lot. Payments are often late, drive sleepless, and thus endanger themselves, their passengers and other road users. A similar chaos reigns in the field of taxi services, where most drivers who drive for licensees are self-employed. They're competing with each other. There is a taxi union, but the public secret is that if you join this union, you lose your job very quickly. The conditions of work are the same as those of out-of-way transport — no sick leave, no paid holidays, no payment per mile, no working time is unlimited and so on. As if all of this hadn't been enough, Minister Koprivnikar decided to bring Uber to Slovenia. The arrival of this corporation will further increase the over-representation on the passenger transport market. The work and profession of car taxi drivers will be fully devalued, social dumping will be even greater, and there will be no possibility of supervision by the competent inspections. In the United Left, we believe that it is high time to make it an order in the field of road transport to allow all drivers a stable and safe employment with all the benefits they face — paid leave, hospital and regression, and everything else that goes with it. It is also necessary to establish supervision of working time and compulsory rest for drivers who do not fall under the provisions of the European Regulation on social legislation in the field of road transport and the use of tachographs. For this reason, we have also prepared and today have tabled in the legislative procedure the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act. The most pressing problem in transport is the exploitation of workers in our country, and this is addressed by our amendment to the law. Exploitation is also the reason why the Austrians tightened the provisions of the Law on the Prevention and Control of Social Dumping. With the inhuman working conditions, the unfair payment, the constant overwork and other injustices we are witnessing in this sector, the problem is the completion of some additional forms for transporting through Austria is banal. In short, in the United Left, we will not support the proposal made by the Government, which has been prepared by the representatives of capital in the SDS and NSI, nor will we support the amendment by the coalition. This, except that it is substantially less substantive, is neither excessively different from the original proposal. We can only recommend to the Government, and especially to the Social Democratic Ministers, that we think of ourselves in the light of the fact that the laws and inspection companies of neighbouring countries are a greater guarantee of respect for the rights of our workers as well as of the regular payment of salaries by employers than our own legislation and our own inspection services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u19	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the ministries! Several facts on the issue of posted workers and carriers in the performance of their work in the Republic of Austria have been addressed. First of all, we would expect the government, not the opposition, to encourage the initiative for a broad political debate on this common search for solutions. So much for who really listens to and understands the problems of the economy and is willing to respond and help. It is an unusual statement by the Government, which does not support the recommendations in its opinion, as it is supposed to be inadequate, and the Government through the competent ministries is expected to already carry out a number of activities and measures aimed at preventing the free movement of services in the internal market of the European Union. According to the representatives of the economy, however, these measures and alleged efforts are not felt by the Government. The carriers are fearfully awaiting the start of March 2017, when the Austrian supervisory authorities start implementing strict and strict legislation requiring a set of documentation to be kept by the carrier in the vehicle, namely the translation of payment sheets, the contract of employment and the application of the driver at least 24 hours before the service is performed, provided that I list only a few such measures, which are carried out by the amended Austrian legislation. Members of New Slovenia believe that these measures, which have been implemented by neighbouring Austria under the Law on the Prevention of Social and Wage Dumping, are disproportionate and do not comply with the principle of free movement of services within the European Union. Moreover, it is not negligible that very high fines are at stake for offenders. However, what is most worrying is the fact that even according to the Government's findings, the arbitrary exercise of inspection controls by the competent authorities of the Republic of Austria to the detriment of Slovenian companies or disproportionate high penalties and guarantees may indicate discriminatory treatment of Slovenian or other foreign service providers. Austria is a very important economic partner for us, Slovenians. We have both gained a lot since 2004 in the European Union. In fact, it is not clear what actually happened that the neighbour has so quickly strengthened the conditions for our entrepreneurs and economists. The fact is that our companies that manage to enter the Austrian market generally offer very quality products and services. We believe that competition is also severe for established Austrian companies. The proposal for these recommendations is aimed at supporting them and, above all, enabling them to be subject to the same rules throughout the European Union for all. They don't demand anything else, and they don't need anything else. Since the recommendations proposed are going in this direction, the Members of New Slovenia will support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u21	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Once, not so long ago, we tried to enter the European Community. We did it in 2004. Do you still remember the transitional period during which our citizens and citizens were not subject to the rules of free movement of people required by some then members for our workers? The free movement of workers for European citizens, i.e. Slovenians, means that when it comes to employment or finding employment in that other Member State, they are equal to domestic workers. The Treaty establishing the European Union contains one of the most respected principles – the free movement of workers, which in practice means that every European citizen has the right to reside, to seek employment, to work and to retire in any other Member State. Today, in 2017, this transitional period for Slovenian citizens is a long time ago, at least that is what we think in our parliamentary group. In recent weeks, even months, warnings and calls from the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as well as from individual craftsmen and entrepreneurs, have been heard several times by the Government on the action that in the Republic of Austria, in an illegal and discriminatory way, contrary to the fundamental freedoms of the European Union, is a free movement of capital, services, people and goods which impedes the functioning of Slovenian companies in the Republic of Austria. Stronger control of operators who have worked more or less without obstacles in international transport between countries will or will already cause them a lot of concern and costs. According to the new Austrians, the transport of goods and passengers is treated as if it were posted workers, i.e. workers working for a long time in the territory of the Republic of Austria. This mode of restricting work and imposing administrative procedures with disproportionate penalties constitutes incomprehensible bureaucratic obstacles, in addition to the other requirements of the Republic of Austria, such as mandatory translations of contracts of employment, payment sheets and other documents into the German language. It appears that the essence of the problem of Slovenian workers and carriers is the recent adoption and amendment of Austrian legislation which imposes disproportionate administrative burden on posted workers and their employers and treats carriers as posted workers and imposes disproportionately high penalties on them in the event of non-compliance. There are, of course, a number of issues that are raised in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, but I would like to raise at least two key issues. What did our representatives in Vienna do when they accepted our workers, carriers and tradesmen as problematic legislation? As we know, we have our representatives in Vienna and our diplomats working there. Is it not the basic task of our diplomats to monitor legislation that is being adopted, that is being prepared and that can affect our people? Isn't it the job of these diplomats to use all the levers, once called diplomacy, to protect those who were finally put there? Somehow it is not clear, at least not why it is necessary for half of Slovenia to rise, that I do not know how many contributions at various TV stations and I do not know how many articles in the newspaper and why a meeting of the National Assembly is needed. To get the ministries moving? We would certainly like the competent to answer at least a few of these questions today, although I am afraid that we will not hear it today. Although legislation in the Republic of Austria has been in preparation for a long time and was adopted in September 2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done virtually nothing to at least try to protect the interests of Slovenian entrepreneurs from the application of amendments to Austrian legislation. But the second key question for us is, does the EU even exist? The common market in which the basic idea of the EU is based is based on four fundamental freedoms: the free movement of persons, the movement of services, capital and goods. Today we have borders again, as it appears, and free movement of persons and services is not working. We will, of course, support the proposed recommendation in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia must do everything in its power to protect its citizens and citizens from discriminatory and protective behaviour of the Republic of Austria. Of course, there's a lot going on today. If nothing else, it's a chance to stop things from happening at a stage where they don't hurt anyone. Today, we would also expect the Slovenian Commissioner's involvement in transport to be actively involved, since it is not only Slovenia, but also the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the issue of posted workers and carriers in carrying out their work in the Republic of Austria. The proposal was created in response to the difficulties faced by Slovenian companies with regard to the implementation of the proposal for a new Anti-Payment and Social Dumping Act, which entered into force in Austria on 1 January this year. The problem that we are dealing with is multilayered. It should be pointed out in the opening that carriers are treated as posted workers who have been working abroad for a long time, but that, as also pointed out by the applicants, due to the objective circumstances in which they perform their work, should not be treated as such. This is why the National Assembly or the competent committee adopted, on a proposal from the Government last June, a position to exclude international road transport from the scope of the Posting of Workers Directive in the context of the provision of services. In doing so, the government has committed itself to addressing the problem of international road transport in the context of the procedure for amending road transport and social legislation, which the European Commission will launch in 2017. The following conclusion concerns administrative measures carried out by the Austrian supervisory authorities and which do not derogate substantially from the measures taken by Slovenia in the control of service providers established in other Member States of the European Union. However, as the Government also points out, we can detect the arbitrary exercise of the inspection controls of Austrian authorities to the detriment of Slovenian companies and the imposition of disproportionately high penalties and safeguards, which may indicate discriminatory treatment of Slovenian or other service providers. In doing so, the Government has informed us that it does not exclude the possibility of initiating an action against the Republic of Austria at the Court of Justice of the European Union in accordance with Article 295 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, provided that there is no agreement within a reasonable time that will enable Slovenian undertakings to carry out cross-border services in Austria in accordance with the applicable rules of the European Union. Such efforts are, of course, also supported in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We must not forget, however, that it is the Slovenian economy that suffers the greatest harm in all of this. This is also the main reason for us to consider the proposal for a recommendation today and to express our support today. That's why the government responded to the problem immediately. She met with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and developed a list of practical issues and dilemmas that had arisen in the implementation of the new Austrian legislation. As we have already been informed, the Government, through the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Vienna, will transmit this material to the Austrian Federal Ministry of Labour. The government has also informed us that a meeting will be held with the head of the European Commission's Directorate for Road Transport and that there are still many other activities that it has already highlighted in its opinion. The proposal proposes that the Government continue its activities to protect the free movement of workers in the European Union and thus the principles on which the European Union is founded. We will therefore support the proposal for a recommendation in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the government, welcome! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it is estimated that the call for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the issue of transport operators' activities in the Republic of Austria was necessary. Only rapid action can prevent the unloving consequences for the Slovenian economy, which may result from the delay of good economic cooperation between Austria and Slovenia. On 10 January, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia addressed a letter to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the competent members of the Government, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Labour, in which they pointed out the intention of the Republic of Austria to make it significantly difficult for Slovenian road transport operators to carry out international transport of goods and services in the territory of the Republic of Austria. A letter was also made known to our Group of Members. In view of the statements made by the representatives of the Chambers, Austria will also begin to monitor the transport sector more closely this year, which has so far worked without hindrance in international transport between countries, as it will treat bilateral transport of goods and passengers as if it were posted workers. The reason for the above-mentioned problem and the incomprehensible bureaucratic obstacles is the adoption of the new legislation of the Republic of Austria in September 2016, with the entry into force on 1 January 2017, which has exacerbated the conditions for companies to provide services across borders. For Slovenian companies providing services on the Austrian market, this means a number of obstacles. The new law in the Austrian market not only persuades unfair competition and social dumping, but also complicated procedures, additional bureaucratic obstacles such as mandatory translations of documents into German, 24 hours notice and so on, with tighter supervision and high penalties, discourage foreign service providers and consequently prevent them from providing services on the Austrian market with disproportionate bureaucratic tightenings compared to domestic providers, which will be the most reflected in the transport sector. The legislation highlighted does not take into account the specificities of transport services, but prescribes disproportionately high penalties. We are talking about penalties of more than 10,000 to 50,000 euros and even more. We understand Austria's fight against unfair competition and social dumping, we understand that companies in their territory must comply with their rules, but we are asked whether this is not an excessive protection and in some way the closure of the Austrian market for foreign service providers, which are placed in unequal situations towards domestic service providers. In particular, it is a worrying fact that the most controls are carried out in Austria’s Styria and Austria’s Koroška, i.e. at the border with Slovenia. Amendments to the legislation in the Republic of Austria constitute an increase in the control of all posted workers, with changes being the biggest problem for carriers which should not be treated in the same way as posted workers due to the objective circumstances in which they carry out their work. The economic representatives have been most disturbed by Austria's intention to begin to closely monitor the transport sector, which has so far operated without major obstacles in international transport between countries, as it has already been exposed to them as if it were posted workers. It is right that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should approach this issue with all seriousness, try to properly agree with the Republic of Austria at the country level and find appropriate solutions for the Slovenian economy. Last but not least, this is about 18,000 people who are transporting. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia fails to take appropriate action, these jobs may be at risk. There may also be greater economic damage and good economic cooperation between countries may also be hampered. The European Commissioner responsible for infrastructure, Mrs Violeta Bulc, pointed out in her hearing that traffic is the backbone of the economy. It has also repeatedly argued that transport will be exempted from the system of posted workers. In the light of the problems faced by carriers, she obviously did not do her best. We are aware of its powers and its potential. We are aware that it must not favour the country from which it comes, but in this case it is the problem of Europe, not just Slovenia, within an area which it covers. The economic representatives pointed out that the implementation of the directive, which has the effect of amending legislation across the European Union, is very different and that there is nothing more to be done about it. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, together with the New Slovenia Group, proposed three recommendations, which unfortunately were not accepted on the Labour Committee. With the recommendations proposed, we wanted the following. Firstly, the Government, together with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, will prepare measures to safeguard the interests of Slovenian service providers in Austria at bilateral level with Austria under European Union law. On the Labour Committee, it has been pointed out that this has already been achieved. There has been a meeting between representatives of the economy and the government. The open issues and dilemmas faced by our economists have been created and the problem is far from solved. It would therefore be appropriate to continue such cooperation until appropriate solutions are found with the Austrian side. The second recommendation was that the Government, together with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Crafts and Crafts, should consider, as soon as possible, all legal remedies available to the European Commission and other competent institutions of the European Union in the light of the measures taken since 1 January 2017 by the Republic of Austria with regard to posted workers and carriers from Slovenia, and that it should submit such remedies as soon as possible. An amendment to our recommendation was adopted by the Labour Committee, which broadens the range of activities not only in relation to the European Commission, but also at the level with Austria and in cooperation with the other Member States directly concerned by these measures. We have also supported such an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. The third recommendation referred to the fact that, within the framework of its powers with the European Commission, the Government provided or took the view that further adoption of legal acts by the European Union would prevent carriers from being treated as posted workers and not be treated discriminatoryly as compared to competition on the European Union market. Such a recommendation was not adopted by the home committee, following the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which pointed out that the National Assembly had already adopted a position not to treat carriers as posted workers on the EU Affairs Committee on 3 June 2016. We have tabled an amendment to the 2nd paragraph of the recommendation for today's extraordinary meeting, complementing the recommendations, in order to ensure that the Government also cooperates in all further activities with the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and that the Government supports the activities of Slovenian carriers and posted workers in dealing with this issue. On the part of the Government, we have already been briefed by the Labour Committee on the existing activities of individual ministries in relation to the issue at stake. In this year, individual activities have really taken place, but we are still wondering why this has not happened earlier. The Act, which, however, entered into force on 1 January, was adopted already in September 2016. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that we are mostly united about our efforts here today. In most cases, we are united in the fact that Austria protects its market with such measures, both with requirements and with controls and with high penalties. In Slovenia, we also have similar requirements for foreign operators, but the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour himself pointed out that the question is how this is implemented in practice. Of course, we have a significant deviation from our control of foreign companies that provide services in Slovenia, as well as the amount of punishment they may receive if they do not meet our requirements. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we advocate that the issue raised by the representatives of the economy should be addressed as soon as possible, as we assess that high support and, in some way, the pressure of the National Assembly can help. We have been the initiator of this extraordinary meeting and, of course, today's proposal for a recommendation, together with the amendment tabled today by the Slovenian Democratic Party, will also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Vice President, thank you for your word. Your Honor, I welcome you all very much. Unfortunately, in the past, we have witnessed a number of major infringements in the field of cross-border posting of workers, which is what European legislation is now trying to tackle. Since the new year, workers of Slovenian service providers have faced a number of difficulties in their operations in the Republic of Austria in the cross-border implementation of the services. It has adopted new legislation which imposes many different bureaucratic requirements on our companies, while at the same time imposing large fines on them in the event of the infringements found. The implementation of the sharper measures by the Republic of Austria was particularly affected by the transport sector by the very nature of the business and the high degree of mobility. While Austrian legislation does not distinguish between Austrian and foreign companies according to the assurances of the competent authorities, the question arises as to how this is done in practice. In the Desus Group, we point out that the partial implementation of inspections and the writing of disproportionate penalties could indicate discriminatory treatment of our companies. While the European Union Affairs Committee adopted a position at its June session on the Posting of Workers Directive that international road transport should be excluded from the scope of the Directive. It was clearly and unequivocally explained that Slovenia expects this to be addressed in the framework of the regulation on international road transport. During the course of the hearing, it was also shown that the Government, through the competent ministries, was already carrying out a number of proposed activities and actions carried out at the level of ministries and diplomatic networks, the Government met with both the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and included them in the search for solutions. The Foreign Ministry is in constant contact with the Austrian Embassy and regularly appeals to the European Commission to expedite the handling of complaints by our entrepreneurs. The General Consulate in Celovac is in contact with the law firm, which, on behalf of 130 Slovenian companies, brought a complaint to the European Commission for the adoption and implementation of the law. The Slovenian Embassy in Vienna cooperates and exchanges information with the Embassy of the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia, as their companies face similar problems in Austria. In the Desus Group, we find that the Government is already working intensively in the direction of the proposed recommendations, so we propose that it continue to address the problem of employees and carriers in the performance of its work in the Republic of Austria. At the same time, we stress that workers assigned to work in the field of a Member State must be provided with minimum conditions for work and employment, as regulated by national rules or generally applicable collective agreements in the country where work is carried out. The exploitation of posted workers, to which we have been, must be acknowledged, also by some Slovenian companies in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Dear Vice-President, distinguished members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware of the difficulties our companies face due to the new Austrian legislation on the prevention of social and wage dumping. With regard to the situation, we share the concerns of everyone in this room. We have been united on the committee to give all our support to the Government in its past and future efforts to secure Slovenian interests and the Slovenian economy, and we will therefore support the Government's proposal for a complementary recommendation in the Social Democrats Group. Our companies, if they acquire transactions in other Member States, also provide services with their employees. Freedom to provide services is, in addition to the free movement of persons, goods and the free movement of capital, one of the foundations of the internal market of the European Union and the essence of the single European space. As Social Democrats, we must stress that the protection of workers' rights and elected standards in the European Union must also be raised to such a high level as the so-called free movement of capital and goods. However, the protection of workers' rights is primarily the responsibility of the countries themselves, which, of course, protect their rules and applicable labour standards. As in Slovenia we must demand that foreign posted workers are subject to Slovenian standards and legislation, so Austria tries. In our common opinion, the neighbouring country may be going a little too far. Fair competition between service providers and the protection of workers' rights is also crucial when travelling to another country. This is the purpose of the directive, which addresses the areas which have proved to be the most difficult in recent years, in particular the prevention of abuse and the strengthening of the protection of the rights of posted workers. But unfortunately, many times, the best intentions of implementation also turn out to be problematic. The latest developments show that due to the directive and the new Austrian law, conditions are tightened to the extreme limit and virtually foreign companies are prevented from carrying out activities in Austria. This has introduced a number of new bureaucratic requirements and measures, which are mainly reflected in the requirements for the submission of various documentation in German, and it is also problematic to impose disproportionately high fines, the amount of which can be multiplied by the number of posted workers. Slovenia also prescribes a number of similar measures for the work of foreigners, but, as the debate on the Committee has shown, the implementation of the new Austrian legislation may have crossed the line when it also impedes the work of those employers who carry out their work under the applicable legislation and provide decent jobs. Most of the problems with this rigorous bureaucratic form of control, which is completely legitimate but unfortunately very inanimate, are borne by carriers. The activity of international transport is not excluded from the scope of EU rules in the field of posting of workers; therefore, under the new Austrian legislation, all provisions also apply to this activity, irrespective of the duration of each cross-border service, which is an insurmountable obstacle for carriers to the implementation of the activity. The truck driver often travels through several countries on a business trip and is therefore subject to specific rules and a specific European directive. To take it into account, discussions are taking place between European countries, in which Slovenia is also involved. As a country, therefore, we expect to focus our efforts on changing the directive as soon as possible and eliminating transport because of its specificity. Through its ministries, the government has taken an active approach to solving the problem at different levels and will, if necessary, intensify its action. At the moment, the Republic of Slovenia supports, through diplomatic channels, the complaints lodged on behalf of more than 130 Slovenian companies by the Celovian law firm on the European Commission. Through its diplomatic representatives, the Republic of Slovenia has established contact and cooperation with other neighbouring Austrian countries facing similar problems as Slovenian companies with a view to developing a common response to indirect violations of the free movement of goods and services in the Republic of Austria. It is proposed that Austria suspends the implementation of the contested law until the open issues are resolved and that a legal opinion of the European Commission can be obtained at that time. We therefore expect that our country will continue to actively support the identification of all types of international road transport from the scope of Directive 96/71/EC in accordance with the position of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly on 3 June 2016. We are committed to a diplomatic solution to the problem, but if it turns out that the legal options are exhausted, we also support the introduction of a extreme government action which predicts and examines the possibility of initiating an action against the Republic of Austria in the Court of Justice of the European Union in accordance with Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, provided that there is no agreement within a reasonable time that will allow Slovenian undertakings to carry out cross-border services in the Republic of Austria in accordance with the applicable rules at European Union level. As we say, we will support the proposal for a recommendation in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u32	Vice President, thank you very much. Before we start a serious debate on our proposals, let me start by saying one thing. With recommendations and with a problem that we have also addressed on the Committee and also today, I will try to practically present where we see bureaucratic obstacles, where there are problems where Slovenian companies are literally in bureaucrat mills and where this is also dealt with by the Austrian inspection authorities at the border. So these are disproportionate penalties and minor misdemeanors committed by, say, one translation. But I would like to point out one thing in particular. This does not protect rotten apples, as they would say, companies that have established themselves in Slovenia, which have mass exploitation of workers or have also sent them to Austria and paid them with lower amounts, as provided for in Austrian collective agreements. It's not protecting rotten apples, I'm stressing again. The representatives of the United Left are not here right now. Today was a very interesting debate on their part. I have never seen radical socialists praise capitalist Austria as much as today. I think the United Left is actually on the right track. They say you can be a socialist when you're a young man, and then you become a conservative when you're older. I therefore think they are on the right track to determine the quality of third- or fourth-generation capitalism, where there is a social state where they protect good workers and do not protect bad employers. When I come forward today, I will cite practical cases – problems of carriers, problems of construction workers, penalties and everything else, which are real problems, which is also, of course, the opinion of the legal profession, in particular this well-known law firm, which represents more than 130 businesses and entrepreneurs with lawsuits before the European Commission. We will prove and demonstrate, with respect to the Government and colleagues and colleagues, that this is therefore disproportionate measures, that it is a discriminatory treatment and that it is much more. I will talk in part about the logistics profession today, but I will also talk about the monopoly created in Central Europe by certain major global logistics Austrian companies that have hundreds of thousands of trucks and have their parent companies in Austria, and the subsidiaries are set up in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, where they are essentially employed by foreign drivers, but these foreign drivers are in fact employed by Austrian companies, and that is why this legislation is not always the case. Here you will be able to find that it is also essentially a challenge to our carriers, who act in a qualitative manner and who also pay their workers in sufficient amounts, and that it is indeed a worrying issue that politics must speak of in the shortest possible time, especially the executive branch of power represented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm going to come over a few more times today, and I'm going to finish my first part of my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone from this town again! The views of the parliamentary groups — almost all but from the United Left’s point of view — show that this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was urgently needed. I would not like to see Teran happen to us when the southern neighbours have been working full-time for the last few years, and we are now surprised to see what is going on or what the Commissioner has decided. We're critical here, too. We are critical that the Slovenian Government, which has leverages, has not followed legislation that actually harms the Slovenian economy. Is that why we are in Europe together? Is this a single market? Once again, and for hundreds of years, I have stressed that I do not wish to interfere in any way with the internal legal order of neighbouring Austria. We are a friendly country, we have a well-developed relationship at all levels, never forget that the Austrians greatly appreciate our performers and our good people. These experiences are probably more than half a century old. I don't think it's necessary to talk about this for a long time. On the home working body, the present Secretary of State, Mr Cantarutti, has made it very clear and correct that the Austrian Government has decided to protect its domestic contractors in a deliberate manner. I take it as protectionism. Is this a European value to which we have also committed ourselves to our Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia? It's not. The answer is very simple — it is not. Yes, it's an incomprehensible position of the United Left. I'm sorry they hit and ran. If I wanted to summarize this in one sentence, this sentence could read: Let us close all Slovenian companies. It's like there's the biggest and only problem of this country and this world. Our parliamentary group is walking around the field a lot, and I tell you that 99% of business owners or managers say that workers are our biggest capital. So sometimes when someone tells us that we, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats protect capital, then I say that he is right because workers, people are the biggest capital of businesses. Or I'm listening to directors who say they're lucky to have a great team, that they're like a family company with 60 or maybe 90 employees. And so on and so forth. From the point of view of the United Left, however, it was heard that the only villains in private companies in Slovenia were. I have to apologize in some way on behalf of the National Assembly for such statements, apologize to Slovenian entrepreneurship, Slovenian entrepreneurs. He's attacking Uber. They are also disturbed by Uber, but they do not understand that, in fact, our banks, which we talk about a lot about in the National Assembly, are awaiting “Uberisation”, but many of them do not really understand. Year 2016 – this is already last year – it is high time for banks to devote themselves to digitisation of business, as advised by futurologist Brett King. Why? Because by 2020, three years from now, 50 billion new devices will be connected to the global network. Uber is actually just a synonym for some new business model of the so-called division economy. Ladies and gentlemen, in a way, we are disappointed that the coalition on the Committee has overtaken our recommendations and, on the other hand, we are pleased and grateful to the coalition that, for at least one recommendation, it has only raised its hands or voted in favour, which in fact shows that we want to call on the Government to monitor closely what is going on in Austria and to put, as I said in the introduction, on the side of the Slovenian economy and on the side of the single European market, that is also on the side of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u36	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Today, we can follow a living example of how a country that knows exactly what it wants to do and how a country that is some kind of poor woman does not know exactly how it would, so on a second time, otherwise. What Austria has done under the pretext of anti-dumping legislation is a clear joke, namely by Slovenian companies and Slovenian craftsmen. In principle, Austria is hailed as a country that is extremely inclined to reduce red tape, to favour public officials as much as possible, citizens as well as entrepreneurs. You have pointed out many examples of how the first, second, third day in Austria will come to ask you about a construction site, if there is anything they can do to help you, not how they can be guessed. Of course it's all for their citizens. If you know that Austria treats its citizens or its economic operators in this way, then it is clear to you that this way, as they now treat Slovenian companies, is a classic joke, or that it is a way to liberalise their procedures to this extent in order to take Slovenia's companies' will to do anything in Austria. Otherwise, I can't explain their actions. To convince me that the anti-dumping measure is that a carrier has to have a payment sheet with him all the time translated into Austrian or German, I think it's a serious joke. I understand their point that equal pay is required for equal work, that no Slovenians or Easterners can come to Austria and there is some cheap labour force and that this threatens Austrian jobs. I understand all this, but these things can be controlled in a different, much more human way. The examples of Slovenian companies that have turned to us are such that they have no problems in complying with their legislation and have a problem with their bureaucracy. They have no problem in providing their workers with the same payment as Austrian workers in order to comply with all their rules concerning safety at work and all other requirements. That's not a problem. However, the problem is that the Austrians require Slovenian companies or Slovenian entrepreneurs to have practically such a row of regulations, papers with them all the time they work. So when he came to the construction site, he had to bring two suitcases of paper with him so he could even start working. That's why I'm saying that what's going on is just a joke. Another thing we can learn from is that there is a policy of enforcement. Take a look at the case of the migrant crisis. They've clearly set a limit. They even gave a number on how many people are willing to accept, but they did not receive any letters from the Council of Europe. They also claim here that it is not protection or protectionism, but that it is classic anti-dumping legislation. Of course, I cannot agree with this, but we, as a country from Austria, could learn a lot about how to act within the European Union in order to protect our interests. If we do not make ourselves very clear in this Austrian case for our interests, then we may lose our jobs in Austria, so that our craftsmen will no longer be able to do their work in Austria, and we will also be out of work at home. Because this is not a problem for anyone that many Austrian economic operators work in Slovenia. An entrepreneur from Styria asked us if we imagined that an Austrian truck with Austrian concrete would be brought from Austria's Styria to Maribor, there folding concrete, going nicely back for a new ride and so on. Nothing! Normally, this can happen, and no one bothers with it. But if the maribor pears were to drive concrete to Austria, it would be a hell of a problem. If we do not tighten up here to the point of creating some reciprocity, without telling us that there is no conflict and that we are all good friends, the Austrians will establish and achieve their own, we will remain empty hands and hungry mouths. If, therefore, in some normal way, diplomatically, this problem cannot be resolved if some normal sound reasoning arguments do not depend on the Austrians, then we must start to use measures to ensure reciprocity. Let the Austrians also remember that a few Austrian investments are under way today and are forecasting in the future. Because only by taking a rather firm stand for our interests will we be able to achieve something, otherwise everything will pass by us. I hope that today's debate, as well as the very clear determination of this Parliament, will contribute to the fact that the Austrians will nevertheless consider and actually withdraw or amend this, under their anti-dumping legislation, which is not, and make it in some normal European way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the floor to prepare Mr. Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you very much. It was clear in the debate of the Committee and also here at the plenary that the effect of the law adopted by the neighbouring state of Austria was one that effectively limits the free movement of labour and services. We all agree on that. As presented in the Government's position, the law itself is essentially in line with the rules of the European Union and its implementation or the outcome of this arbitrary implementation is essentially what constitutes the effect of limiting the free movement of services or labour. Perhaps those who participate in the proceedings and will continue to participate in proceedings against the Republic of Austria will also be able to use our discussions from the Committee and Parliament and our arguments here. I think that's welcome. I think that the very debate in Parliament on this issue is also a signal to Austria that we are serious about this, that we will stand up for ourselves and that we will also stand up for the rules of the European Union. That is why I think this debate is really welcome and necessary. The European Union's internal market is a value that they have long fought for in the European Union to emerge. It was a single market, then the Treaty of Lisbon and the internal European market. The market that is supposed to be the most similar market within the country. If freedoms are within this market, as provided for in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on European Union allows, then I think it is unacceptable that such actual infringements occur. I think we need to insist here on finding out that these violations are coming to an end. But I think it's a little bit too low-hearted to say that now it's questionable whether there is a European Union or if it still works. Of course it works. We have rules that we can use in this case to achieve compliance with these rules. Many times, my fellow Members, the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled whether it is a violation of the rules of the Treaty on European Union or the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union – they have previously been different names, but these are now the same treaties that have existed since the establishment of the European Community, and we now have the European Union since 1992, that is, since the Maastricht Treaty on the European Union, we have previously had European communities and three different communities, and we would not now have this history. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union therefore has a mechanism that we can use. It is, and because of the infringements, we need to make use of what the European Union's legal mechanisms offer what they have. What's that? Some of the colleagues have already mentioned this. There is a possibility for Slovenia to bring proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union against Austria to establish that this infringement has occurred. I also told the board that this was, of course, a long-term procedure. Government representatives also said that they are also preparing for this option, which is ultimately legal and legitimate. It is important that we give a signal and that it is heard here in Parliament that this is the real option that the Government is preparing and will use if all the other means or measures taken by the Government and on which it works do not produce fruit. I think that is also true, because this will prove exactly the opposite, namely that the European Union is operating and that there is a Court of Justice of the European Union, which has repeatedly said what it means to limit the fundamental freedoms of the acquis of the European Union, i.e. the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. It also seems important to me that the representative of the Government on the committee on which we have dealt with this issue said that assistance is also provided to those individual carriers involved in the proceedings in Austria in relation to these proceedings, which are being conducted against them, in order to offer them legal assistance. We have heard that they have mostly lawyers, but it is important to enable and assist in the drafting of these legal procedures and applications, that an instrument of prior judgment may also be used before the Court of Justice of the European Union, because I think that this would make a decision more quickly. But I think we need to be prepared for all possibilities and start working as soon as possible. Some of these things have been done by the government. As regards the amendments to the coalitions that we have also adopted on the Committee and the amendment proposed today, we will vote in favour because it is now much more in line with the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service and more concrete. It recommends that the Government do something that it is already doing, but we believe that this amendment must now be supported, because there is no doubt as to whether, as the Law-Legal Service has written down, the European Union's competence, which is divided between the State and the European Union, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on European Union, is affected. We will support and also propose to the Government that, in accordance with these recommendations, they do everything and make use of all legal options to enable carriers to provide their services as soon as possible without restrictions that cannot be imposed on the internal market of the European Union, if the problem is the law that is so written down or the actual enforcement of such a law, which constitutes such restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! Most of the time today, there are likely to have been references to the free market, the free movement of goods and the free movement of services. These are the fundamental elements that have also created the European Union, which today makes the European Union both economically and economically economically capable of competing in this global world. Unfortunately, protectionism is on the increase. Not only has Schengen fallen in the last year and a half to restore border controls at some internal borders of the European Union, which, of course, makes it difficult for both the free movement of goods and services and not least for people, is this, of course, dangerous for the idea that the European Union is acting on. As it was obviously not enough that it was so because of illegal migration and because we did not properly manage these matters – not Slovenia, not the EU as a whole – it is now that countries are adopting laws based on a regulation drawn up by the European Commission, which is, of course, logical and necessary. On this basis, Austria has adopted a law that makes work very difficult for our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen, those who provide cross-border services or those who travel to their employees and operate in Austria. I have a friend who owns a company or owns a business and owns a car, a transport. I asked her if she could write me a few words about what this law, which Austria had adopted, had brought her or what was making this law difficult for her. Let me read what she sent me. "This law prevents us from working with Austria because the penalties for non-compliance with the conditions below are very high. It is impossible to operate in the following cases: cabotage services when the place of loading and the place of unloading is in Austria; transports to Austria when the place of loading is outside Austria and the place of unloading in Austria, even in the case of subscribers outside Austria; transports from Austria by non-Austrian companies when loading in Austria and the place of unloading outside Austria, even when the contracting authority is outside Austria. Dirty or one-off transports also fall under the headings. Each driver must have the following documentation in the vehicle; in previous notices, I shall indicate the mandatory documents in the vehicle. First, A1. Secondly, a copy of the application or at least the transaction number or the registration reference number. Thirdly, payment documentation — German employment contract or annex to a German working contract may also be in English; a German bank transfer certificate; payment sheets showing that the driver’s working hours in Austria were accounted for by the minimum Austrian items; documentation of the classification in the wage class, if this is relevant under the collective contract of activity; hours’ working hours in the German language and the apparent number of hours’ work carried out in the Austrian territory. Fourthly, third-country nationals and nationals of the Republic of Croatia must have a work permit from the country of destination in the case of cabotage transport in Austria and an application for entry into the country must be made. In addition to the entire documentation, the increase in costs and the fall in prices, this mode of work for transport companies is impossible and represents a significant decrease in traffic. An agreement is needed, as is already in force in France, where the procedure is conducted in a simple and meaningful manner." In short, this is an example of how our Slovenian entrepreneurs face these problems. It is right that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with New Slovenia, we have requested an extraordinary meeting because we are talking about the economy, because we are talking about our entrepreneurs who are giving work to Slovenian citizens and citizens on the one hand, and they are, of course, filling the state treasury with all contributions and all taxes. As it is obviously not enough for Austria to make the work of Slovenian entrepreneurs more difficult by its legislation, we have adopted such legislation ourselves, which we will deal with next week at a meeting of the National Assembly, namely the Posting of Cross-border Workers Act, where we have imposed a number of additional red tape ourselves to those who wish to send their employees to cross-border work. This is said to block Austria from our entrepreneurs on the one hand and, on the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, instead of helping them, through the law that we will deal with next week, this additional bureaucratic burden with various certificates, with definitions of what is short-term work and what is considered to be short-term work, lays down its own burden. It is right that we finally agree, at least in part, and that even coalition parties support, although not all of our recommendations are what we have suggested in both parties in the original, but nevertheless. It is necessary to put an end to the fact that the State of the Republic of Slovenia treats its entrepreneurs machetely. Not only are we ourselves adopting legislation that will benefit them, but it will prevent them, such as the cross-border directive law, which is somehow also the implementation of this Regulation. If it suits us to sharpen things, we always refer to the fact that the European Directive requires so much, and we additionally welcome these entrepreneurs, because obviously some people do not know where the state treasury is from. On the other hand, the Republic of Slovenia must defend its entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who provide such services concerning work abroad or cross-border travel and do all, of course, by legal means, in such cases, that they can also protect their citizens and citizens from such protectionist measures as the Republic of Austria has adopted, in this case their entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Bojana Muršič, prepare the mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf! Given that almost all parliamentary groups speak the same language, it seems to me that today's debate will be just a repetition of the same facts. However, I must say that these problems facing our companies in the new Austrian legislation on prevention of social and payment dumping are indeed worrying. It is right that we today have this meeting to commit the Government to do everything possible to protect the Slovenian companies that acquire these transactions in the European Union countries, because free movement of goods and capital should apply in the European Union countries, as well as the provision of services is also the essence of a single European space. In view of the adoption of the Directive and Austrian law, these conditions are tightened to the extreme limit and practically prevent businesses operating in Austria from implementing them. These bureaucratic measures and requirements appear mainly after the submission of various documentation in German and the imposition of disproportionately high penalties is even more problematic for me. For punishments move there about 10,000 and more euros, but some only get transactions of such value. Then you wonder if one company gets a fine of 10,000 euros, what that means to the company. Such a company is simply plunged into decay. It is therefore necessary to pay all attention to this and it is therefore so important that the Government does everything again against these rigorous bureaucratic measures introduced by Austria. I am so disturbed by the fact that the European Commissioner has always insisted on controlling carriers that legislation is appropriate and that carriers are exempt from this law, but unfortunately that is not the case. If you'll let me just say for a moment what it means. The driver is therefore on a business trip across several European countries and is therefore subject to specific rules and a specific European directive. Although I understand the Republic of Austria to protect the domestic market and the requirements of companies operating in their territory, especially workers, that they are paid under their legislation, which is entirely appropriate, but the facts concerning the restriction of occasional international transport of goods and passengers carried out by our international road hauliers across the border are, in my opinion, unacceptable, as it is for posted workers who work longer in their territory. There are therefore bureaucratic obstacles to the application of posted drivers for individual transport and their confirmation at the Austrian employment institutions when it comes to third-country nationals. This restriction will severely limit the transport of goods and passengers between countries. Also with regard to these compulsory translations into German, such as contracts of employment and payment sheets, my colleague has already pointed out well before me what they mean for certain craftsmen or companies. These are really unacceptable things, so let me once again say that the Slovenian economy needs to be protected, thus protecting Slovenian workers working abroad. It is true that today's debate is, and I believe that we will all finally successfully confirm all the proposed conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Mr. Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mrs. Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members, all those who accompany this meeting! I would also like to highlight the issue that we are addressing today from the position of employees, which led the National Assembly to adopt a position in the middle of last year in which the Republic of Slovenia supports the European Commission's efforts to protect the rights of posted workers to work in the context of the provision of services aimed at preventing social and wage dumping, namely to seek competitive advantages on the basis of non-payment of wages or at the expense of low wages and other ways of exploiting employees. In the direction of such efforts by the European Commission, Austria is also expected to adopt a new law on the prevention of social and wage dumping, which entered into force on 1 January this year. The new law should, according to the assessment of our government at legislative level, not be in breach of the applicable rules at European Union level. Likewise, the administrative measures implemented by Austria should not, in the opinion of the Government, deviate from those requested by our country from the operators of companies established abroad who provide services in Slovenia. Thus, the difference between the implementation of such legislation in Austria and Slovenia appears to be mainly in the fact that the Austrian supervisory authorities have taken control of this area seriously, and our country and our supervisory authorities obviously tolerate any disputed practice towards our employees. Slovenia is finally committed to identifying international road transport from the scope of the Directive which deals with this area. This is difficult to understand because these very days we find that there is a great deal of wage and social dumping in this area. Avoiding the rule of law in the field of labour law is nothing new for Slovenia. For at least two decades, we have been faced with a tolerant attitude of the country and with responsible inspections of certain employers when they even massively violate labour legislation. Thus, some employers did not pay or pay pension and/or health contributions to employees. Among the European countries, Slovenia is ahead of violations of labour law, especially in transport and construction. Employers are supposed to bill workers wrongly or not at all for work, for work between holidays and for night work, and for driving past tachographs or cards. Of course, this applies only to some employers. Labour law has been massively violated by even companies owned by the State in part or majority. Almost no one was responsible for all of this. There is now a fear among some employers, perhaps also because the Austrian supervisory authorities are supposed to start carrying out those parts of the tasks that the Slovenian supervisory authorities have not yet been able or willing to perform. The government and some employers estimate that the activities of the Austrian supervisory authorities are also subject to unequal or discriminatory treatment in Slovenian or other foreign companies and to the imposition of disproportionately high penalties and guarantees. With the measures taken by the Austrian supervisory authorities, around 18 000 car carriers and around 2 000 other entrepreneurs and craftsmen, especially construction workers, who provide services in Austria, are likely to be affected by the media. Austria's legislation is expected to present 11 countries and 130 Slovenian craftsmen and businesses are expected to bring an action against the new Austrian legislation against the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in court proceedings - some have already been initiated - it will find out which of the above holds, which is not true. The procedures that have been initiated so far by our country have been assessed as appropriate in the light of the information available on the situation in Austria. I believe that the government will also respect the guidelines that we will accept today in the National Assembly. I also hope that that part of the effectiveness of the Austrian supervisory authorities, which are implementing legislation and measures to prevent wage and social dumping, will be an example to our Government, the competent ministry and the inspection services in order to increase the efficiency of their work and finally begin to protect our employees more effectively from the abuse of some employers. Finally, we pay them for this purpose. And also to defend our economy when it is justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I certainly think that this topic is of great importance when it comes to the Slovenian economy, when it comes to Slovenia within the European Union and when it comes to good interstate relations between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia. But I have to say that today I have heard some things that I agree with in some way, but I cannot understand that some people are saying one thing again, but they are doing another. Today we had the opportunity to hear the position of the United Left Group, which basically said everything I personally think is right. What she said she certainly wrote down on the paper of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. But on the part of the politicians of the United Left we are always hearing about rotten capitalism, and today these same ladies and gentlemen here are praising Austria for how well-ordered things are, how legally everything works and so on. Now I don't know if I'm crazy in here or if there's someone else? How can you speak that way, on another occasion, even though the content was accurate? But we have the problem mainly in our country, and in fact, in this country, any already adopted law is very badly respected. This is our country's problem. Inspections don't work. I am afraid – and I have pointed to this many times at the meetings of the National Assembly – that inspectors are very connected to some companies, which is not normal. That's not normal. That is why we cannot go any further so that the pigs that are happening in our society, here in Slovenia, can be arranged in a different way and with the appropriate legislation that is in force in Slovenia. But today I've heard from the United Left that once he says that capitalism is rotting great, oh and all, and that they have everything posted there in zero, when in any other sentence we listen to how communism and socialism oh and in general, as far as capitalism is concerned, but this is some kind of problem that has arisen in this world. I don't understand. I hope that Slovenian citizens and citizens will sooner or later learn the duality of such people. Look, there's not one here. Comes, recites, reads what the Free Trade Union writes to him and dies, and there's no more. Is that normal? Then he gets a salary at the end of the month, and this nice salary that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia pay. Logically, those who sit in here have to smile at it because it is unsavoury, unacceptable, and rude. What kind of Member would it be if I had a union to write everything I think, if I didn't have a little of my own sanity and say what I think is right, because that's why people chose me? That's why people chose me. Now for a little while, dear colleagues from the government. You know I'm always critical, and that's right. But if you've got something good, I know how to say it. But this is where I marked a few things. First of all, he's a magician. Aleš Cantarutti of the Ministry of Economy said: "Please also, on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, allow a few words in the introduction. All that has been said by the applicants is true, and Slovenia must respond accordingly." He has to. "We have been following this issue for a long time." It's gotta be, we're watching, and so on. Then we have Mr Peter, who is here with us, who also said: "There is certainly an important part of our economy that the Government is dealing with, and is actively engaged in, inter-ministerial meetings." Then we have Darjo Bavdaž Kuret from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly monitors developments... in the framework of the regular political dialogue expressed concern." Now I hope you understand what I'm saying. I think that the Government has been informed of this problem in Austria since last year in the middle of the year by this law, which was passed in the Republic of Austria. This was said by the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. But, dear colleagues from the Government, if you were then familiar with these expressions, which I have just mentioned, would not be normal, because at this time we would have expected some results. At least what I would expect would be for the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia to meet with Austria and resolve this problem within the country, not that we may have to sue the Republic of Austria before the European Commission and so on. I don't understand. Half a year, so far it's 6 months, and if we count even January and February, it's 8 months, the government has practically done almost nothing. Whatever you say, we asked you about concrete measures on the Labour Committee. You've been explaining what I don't think is enough. It is right that I, as a Member of Parliament, have my opinion, and you give your arguments. You said them there, but with those arguments, I wasn't satisfied. I ask now clearly and publicly why you have not yet met with a team from the Republic of Austria to agree on this problem in an interstate manner and try to resolve it. Only if there is no solution between the countries of this problem could we talk about suing the Republic of Austria with the European Commission because this law should not be in accordance with the rules of operation of the European Union. But I'm calling you again and I'm asking you to do everything in your power. You have everything to exercise in your hands to agree with your Austrian colleagues on a solution to this problem. Who will protect their own citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as well as our government and this Parliament? We've been chosen for this. What are the Austrian authorities doing? It is clear that they protect their citizens and citizens, their economy and so on, which is logical, normal and must be understood. However, because they are also part of the European Union, they are subject to certain rules and to all the same. I think that regardless of whether they have adopted this law, which we do not directly affect, because it is part of their legal order and we have the influence to meet with them and to discuss these issues thoroughly, which are open. I am sure that if this interest of this government were properly exposed, this problem would have been resolved, and this issue, according to my assessment, had been resolved long ago. These problems and those problems that we have now would not be. It wouldn't be. That's why I'm sure there's still a chance. However, I am afraid of one problem that has been raised on the Labour Committee, where they said that the Austrian services should start to follow very strictly the rules that are enshrined in the law on 1 March. And that would be a really unacceptable blow for our carriers. That's why I said we've been thinking and waiting too long. When March 1st comes, there will be a problem here and a lot of companies can close doors for that. If he gets 60, 70, 80 or 100,000 euros in fines, who's gonna pay for it? Small businesses can't pay for that. They're just not gonna make it. So the company will close down and then nothing will help if we sue the Republic of Austria through the European Court of Justice, because this will take maybe two or more years. Those companies will be gone, those employees will be gone, they will be in the employment agency and so on. Around this we need to shift the species and say that nothing helps if we now agree here that this is a problem and that we have identified it as Slovenian policy if we have not taken the key steps that we should have taken when it was time to do so, from half of the previous year to today. Who can do that? Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But, my dears, as you are in all areas – I will not open some things now, I have no intention of doing so, but it would be right to – react softly and slowly, so it seems to me that in this case too. Remember Teran, the disaster is perfect. Now the arbitration agreement will come slowly, and I can see that you're obviously having a headache. Not to mention. Asylum policy and so on, what it took to do, how many such and different words there were, that we had a marriage here together as much as we had put through to protect our borders in order to protect our people. This is what the Austrians do, that is what all the countries around us do, that is what the Visegrad Group does, and we are living in another world, as if we are not part of this Europe and this wider work. I really don't understand why everything has to get into some kind of trouble, at some extreme point in time, and then someone reacts. It's not normal for me, and it's not normal for me to have a government like that. I really don't. No one can convince me. I know you're doing what you're doing for a good reason, but it's too late. Always too late, too late, too late. Will the government pay these entrepreneurs when they get, say, 60 or 70 thousand euros in fines, or workers who will take the car upstairs? Will the Government pay this and then ask the European Court of Justice or Austria for this money back? Who's gonna do that? Who's gonna pay these people? I'm putting an end to this part. And once again, I think it's very important. This is that in Slovenia it really works with our workers abnormally. Some, not all. We have extremely good, good, honest entrepreneurs, but we have some who exploit it to the extreme limit. I don't understand that you can't see this in government. So replace those inspectors who are sitting there now and send them somewhere else, and let some new team that has no connections with everyone, and you'll see what the results will be in a very short time. Try to do it once and you'll see. That's not right. I expect that once this policy, that I will not say government or complete policy, will put itself in a position and demand strict implementation of such legislation as is written down. Because we have a lot of good legislation, a lot. But what helps if everyone laughs in a mustache, and the uncles in the back do what they think goes down, threatens one another, threatens the other, the third, the fifth, the tenth, and then everyone hides? In the background, we do not have any added value by the judicial branch of power. This is an even bigger disaster. Even bigger. They work with political structures, instead of saving and finding what I tell them, the devils who stole the money shut them down and took all the money and all the property away. How many times in this House will this sentence have to be said to have someone move? How many times? I don't know how many times I have to do this. As a result, many workers cannot live and put money in their pockets, and they drive with no cars and so on. How come nobody sees it if I see it? But I don't have leverage to go see how someone can say construction work for 10 million and 30 people employed, and when employees pay for Furs, they see that those people are practically everyone on minimum wage. There's a whole bunch of profiles in there that don't go to work for a minimum wage, so you know that in the back, the money goes through in the pocket and in cash, so we don't pay taxes. Think about it, because we have some other smart people in this society. I don't understand how you don't see it. So that someone can make fun of and make a fool of themselves, like Miklavčič, who says he won't explain to anyone where he's got 500 or 600 grand as far as the ship was. And no one's gonna take him and bring him here if you bring the bills, where the money comes from, if you don't have an account, right now money back to the state budget. I don't care who's in this world because he was a minister because he was a civil servant. Here you are hunting — sometimes when I look at it, I feel sick — if a box of lighters is sneezing because it cannot be bought or, say, a sandwich. What kind of company are we? What kind of politics are we? What kind of government are we? I hope there comes a time when we'll really make that key order to know who's drinking and who's paying. When we do this, there's going to be a lot of things going to work out differently. I hope that the moment will come when things will be arranged in Slovenia as they are in Austria, even though this law will certainly pass. But they're just protecting their interests, which is to understand. We must, too, so it is right that today this meeting is and that today we are discussing how we will protect our citizens and citizens, our entrepreneurs and tradesmen within the EU, where these rules are written. I still think we can do this before we can make a deal with each other, rather than go and sue someone. Now you can read again from Croatia what is happening to Cimos. It's just that every one of us is bringing us around. How is that possible? I just can't believe it. Then every day I read these things, I look at these things, and I get sicker all the time. And I keep warning you, every time I perform, I try to warn you about these things, but obviously something in this society is very wrong not to come to the right ears. Nothing helps us to have a ministry where much is said, how and what needs to be done, but then things remain in drawers or at any other body of this society and no matter comes to an end in the way that it should be for the benefit of most people. It always stops where something has to be done for people. But when something needs to be done for an elite, for a narrow group of those who have – I also talk about a state apparatus, a second and third-class management that practically keeps everything under control, because the minister and the secretary of state don't even know about half the things that are happening because they can't know because there are too many things – that drive the matter as well as they think. I think that on a number of these things that came out, that's the problem. But no minister has yet made up his mind and said, "There are no more you young men up there, purely others, but we will not put you on the road for this, but you will do something else." We'd cut these chains off with that. This is how we would start driving this country on the right path. If we don't do this, I don't know where this is going. We see where we came in with a sovereign debt, we see where we came in with interest, we see how the state sector is increasing, we have a demographic problem that we have no influence on, and on the other hand, we have a renewed and renewed burden on the economy, the real sector. On Monday, I'm going to ask one such question, because I think it's amazing where we're going in this society, in this country. If this government and this left-wing falanga - as I have said before - I stand behind it and repeat it again - to lead the country to better results, she has made a mistake. She's not bringing her. It will destroy the country to the end because you know for yourself that a bureaucratic or bureaucratic system cannot save the country. Only the real economy, employment, new jobs and, of course, improving the conditions of entrepreneurship can save it, so that it can start a new job, as it fills all the cash registers and so on. We don't have a problem. If he says Struggle, it's no problem. Then there's another J group in there that can't survive or die. It's a complete mess! If you'd started discussing these things, you'd be so amazing. [[…]] Nothing happens. I'm most angry that nothing happens. You hear in here a hundred times the rights of workers — one, the other, the third, the five — are violated! Some little things that are a long way from what's supposed to happen. I really hope that something really radical will change here at some point in time, because people don't know what else is actually possible in this country, so they are also extremely disappointed because they are constantly more on the minimum wage, constantly more on the social edge of survival and so on. The task of the government and the coalition is to solve these problems. But the opposition is the one who has to help. We have repeatedly and repeatedly warned and we are trying to take good care of all the structures in this society, for which we are responsible, in order to make some changes for the benefit of most citizens and citizens. That's our job. We're very sad that this isn't the case. Personally, I am very sad because every day when I come to Slovenian Mountains or that environment of mine up to wherever you go, whether you go to Koroška or down to Pomurje, Prekmurje, Prlecija and so on, look at people and ask them how they live. When you come to Ljubljana, you can't believe we live in a country of two worlds. It's not acceptable, it's distasteful and, in my opinion, extremely irresponsible. Any policy, whatever it is, whether this government or any one of them at any time, should be significantly more attentive to these matters. In the period 2004-2008, when the Slovenian Democratic Party led the Government, regional differences began to decline. Where are we now? Where are we now? Look at the statistics, and you'll see where we came from. Look at the size of the Maribor swimming pool. For that, God, I'm sorry, man has no words at all. It's really sad. These recommendations, which we have proposed together with New Slovenia, are very well-meaning and, in my opinion, absolutely on the ground, because we have to put pressure on the Government to understand once the seriousness of the situation in which the Republic of Slovenia is located. I hope this is a big enough warning to the government that if by 1. 3. They begin to fly these penalties, so that the ministers sitting in this government will give their wallets out and those people who will happen to have none of these documents from their pockets, because you did not react in time. Once in a while, start reacting in time, not post-festum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a problem that has been heard from the debates of the parliamentary groups that everyone agrees that this is a problem and that something needs to be resolved in this area. In doing so, it is particularly disturbing that the Ministry has been aware of this problem for about half a year since this legislation began to be implemented in the Republic of Austria. It was also clear at that time that this legislation would enter into force with effect from 1. 1. 2017. There were also clear warnings from those groups that would be affected, but nothing happened. We all know that this bureaucratic obligation imposed by posted workers is quite high. It has also been in the past, but in the past the penalties have in some ways been proportionate. When we look at all the European directives that talk about the adoption of legislation on certain burdens also through criminal provisions, they always talk about some balance. At least in this argument, officials at ministries who have been warned about this adoption of inadequate legislation by Austrian decision-makers should not react. All these penalties, which will affect individuals who do not accidentally comply with all these bureaucratic rules, will be very high, and this is not fair to our workers. Above all, in the recent period, even before the new year, I was approached by motorists. In my area, too, there are some that have been pointed out that the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of the Economy and also European Commissioner Violeta Bulc have ensured that motorists are not included in the implementation of this Directive. In fact, I am interested in what the Ministry has done in this area. If we arrive at a cut date, the matter will enter into force, thereby preventing some normal economic activity for our motorists. On the other hand, we need to ask ourselves why the Austrians are doing this in some way. There is much talk about our economic growth, the reduction of unemployment and so on. If we turn around a little differently, maybe the Austrians are afraid that too many of our workers will go to Austria and maybe the border will close. Perhaps it is not such a great success of this government in eliminating unemployment and everything else. Is that why the ministry has been waiting to solve this problem, and is allowing our companies to be limited in their ability to work in Austria? Interestingly, no other surrounding countries have such rigorous measures. All business relations with Italy are functioning normally, and with Germany, apparently, although it has similar legislation, but does not have such draconian penalties. I really don't understand this apparatus of ours, that it's not able to react in time when someone announces that for a five-point offense, he's going to give a 100-point sentence not to point that out to some European authorities, and in due time he's going to take care of it. Now the whole thing is going on in some way with a delay and a post-festum, and people are already paying these penalties. Someone who was in charge of monitoring the adoption of this legislation, who was warned by both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the various individuals, obviously failed to do his work, failed to perform it or refused to perform it. There's a lot of these options here. But the fact is that legislation is now in force and that all our economic operators who want to work in Austria have a problem. If this is not a problem that Parliament and the Government must take very seriously, then I really do not know whether it is more important that the whole government summit goes to a handball game in France or more importantly to solve some problem that our economic operators want to work in a normal way in some European space. Given that we hear a problem every day that happens to some of our "negotiations," it's very alarming. We talked about the terrace when the project was over, we all toasted with the terrace, we all looked forward to the protection, the cut date comes, everyone finds out that they were drinking too early and that they didn't understand some of the facts that someone had set up. That's what we're saying now. Although motorists must have zero-zero, they understood that the matter was problematic, and the ministry apparently kept saying that this would not happen. Maybe we live in the real world, but some in some cloud, so you see in the ministries that something won't happen because you think it will. This isn't the first time this has happened. I hope not with Croatia. Well, maybe they'll close the border, and we won't have to, but that's not gonna happen. Obviously, we are fast ahead of each negotiation. I think this matter with Cimos is just one top of the story, next to the field and some other thing. So I'm really afraid that these recommendations may be the maximum that the National Assembly can do in this case. Indeed, I would expect from the ministries referred to by those in charge of these departments that sometimes listen to these arguments and do not expect a date to happen, which then causes a lot of bad will and once again some procedure and debate in the National Assembly, which I do not think is necessary. I think that the Government, the ministries and the various agencies within this package are responsible for solving operational cases, not the National Assembly. But if there is no reaction, all our neighbors can walk on our heads, and this is happening to us now from case to case, even when we probably have in our hands appropriate arguments to respond to some kind of rape, or formally appropriate solutions, where the problem is punishment in the event of failure to comply with these solutions. I think that the Ministry, as well as all the competent authorities in charge, could react. But the key thing is that in some ways you've deceived the entire economic part of the car carrier so that it doesn't happen to them. I've got a lot of letters to remind you of that. I wonder if you had a conversation with our Commissioner Violeta Bulc to explain why this happened. She also stated at the Chamber of Commerce that this would be excluded from this system of posted workers. If you're nosing that's not true, I'd ask for your explanations. You were in charge of monitoring this legislation, you were in charge of responding to economic operators, and you are now in charge of resolving it. If you are doubting that this has not been declared, I would ask you to deny my claim. The letters I have in my folder clearly indicate that the motorists were confident that this will not happen to them. If you are nodding, put your arguments on the table, go to Brussels, go to Violeta Bulc and solve this. That's what you're paid for.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'll make sense of it where my colleague Krivec somehow ended up. Honorable representatives of the government! 4 March 2015 – this means that almost two years or 23 months have passed since the first information was in the media: "How to work in Austria and not risk high penalties – Austria protects domestic companies from foreign competition." Even then, journalist Teja Grapulin described the specific situation, that is, well before the adoption of the so-called anti-dumping legislation or the social dumping law, where she described all the problems they have – say the BUAK Fund, which I will talk about later, and how Maria Škof warned in the course of the seminar at the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce that these disputes could cost more than 30,000 euros and so on. So it's been 23 months since all this information is coming. We are therefore not talking about legislation, we are not talking about involving Slovenia in the internal part of the legislation of the Republic of Austria, but we are talking about the implementation of legislation, because in a perfidious way and with perfidious bureaucratic obstacles, they eliminate international competition on their market. If we are looking at the penalties, 39 percent are Slovenian companies and Slovenian workers. 23 months ago, the information was in the media, and it's not the only medium, there's more. Continuation. On the part of the Bar itself, which the Government says is now cooperating with, 130 cases have already been filed with the European Commission, of course the government representatives have joined. We expect active policy to be pursued by the government. Dear colleagues, I have some theories. The government is the top of the state administration. We know the public administration, the public administration and the public sector, which is a general concept. In theory – at least I was learning this in a master's degree – the government as the top of the state administration gives political instructions to bureaucrats who are part of the government's administration, the Ministry of Composition and then the government's services, what policy it pursues. Then comes the so-called process of theory and administration, the so-called administrative-political process. These are theorists from this area. This administrative-political process, when left-wing governments, is anemic. It is behind the flossules and, in practice, there is an anaemic way of explaining it. Let's take a look at this case, your honor. The year 2009 – perhaps someone else remembers something, such as the introduction of the vinite system in the Republic of Slovenia just before that by the Janša government, and then the new government, Minister of Transport Patrick Vlačič. So let us receive a reminder from the Commission, the European Commissioner, I think it was for transport at the time, this was Mr Tajani, who is today President of the European Parliament. He was protecting Italy, even though he was the European Commissioner, if we look at a comparison with Mrs Bulc. He was therefore protecting Italy because lobbyists or Italian carriers lobbyed for it, to immediately open proceedings against Slovenia for discrimination against foreign carriers because they did not introduce a one-day vignette and even gave us instructions on how much these vignettes would cost. What happened to Patrick Wolf from SD? The Styrians, or Pojbic's natives, would say he got down. Is that how it is, Comrade Pojbich? He's kneeling. He put his head down right away so we could take it all. We have even been frozen by 88 million European funds for the construction of motorways, at a time when we were coming into the biggest crisis in the world. We immediately agreed to everything, and Tajani was essentially protecting his people and he was biased. And Mrs. Bulcheva works in gloves. I believe that everything cannot be shown on the first ball, but it can also be taken off by perfidious measures. Today we are talking about implementing this legislation. What does that look like in practice, my respected colleagues? At least in the beginning, I'll stop talking to the car companies. In addition to all the information we received from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group by the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, we also met on the ground. Most entrepreneurs are from international transport companies. Most often they operate in transit traffic, and not so much in cabotage transport in Austria, because they made it clear that there are a third, fourth, small subcontractor and that we can count this almost on the fingers of one hand. Now look what Meldung einer Entsendung nach Österreich looks like. It even states below which law it is – Lohn- und Sozialdumping-Bekämpfungsgesetz. It says it's the basis of this law. So, the application. On one palette you bring shampoo for hair, the other palette is toilet paper, the third palette and whatever, say soap for washing. For each of these different ingredients, the carrier must fill in five sheets in German and report at least 14 days earlier. For each palette, if there are different products. If they're the same products, of course one. For each sheet, a federal bureaucrat working for the company shall spend at least 15 to 20 minutes. So an hour for everyone. The transport must be announced 24 hours earlier, that's what they're demanding. Now I'm talking about trucks, and so are bus transports, ski buses, and so on. Very similar stories, although again there is some specificity in transporting people or transporting goods and everything else. Then they'll announce themselves in Austria. They enter Austria and from eight hours and 15 minutes they need a certificate that they are, say, 2 hours and 15 vehicles through Austria so that, of course, the Austrian minimum price – I think at present 9.63 euros is a driver's ticket in Austria – then it counts. The Austrians will now not yet, but they will demand in the re-inspection procedures that this price will, of course, also be translated into German into the payment sheets that the driver must have in addition. In addition to all this documentation, the driver must have also translated payment sheets and a contract of employment into German. They even requested bank statements. Bank statements to really get paid so much in their own account. On these payment sheets they require a special item to, say, four times bring to Austria, say, two, three hours drive through Austria, i.e. all twelve hours paid for 9.63 euros. I'm asking most of the carriers, say, in Lenart. He was recently also Minister of Infrastructure, Peter Gasperšič, with me at Kurnik. Top-of-the-line company, 18 "trucks", driving conditions phenomenal, better than ours here for Members, I don't envy them. An extremely decorated company, they said that from below a thousand 500 net wages, there is no driver because they're leaving at the moment. There is neither the possibility of any social dumping, even on their part, even if these entrepreneurs wanted to, so I speak for the Slovenian workers who work in these companies. Then, of course, I met with the transport of Majer, the same in international transport, the transport of Črnčec, which comes from Slovenian Gorica. Entrepreneurs, honest people, they like to pay as much as they can pay. They explain all the stories. Incredibly, terrified, with threatening punishments, with incredible bureaucracy. Take the entrepreneur I initially talked about with 18 trucks, with a serious society and, of course, with the cost of translation, because you have to have an official translator, i.e. a sworn translator. Now you imagine the cost, the time and everything. Do you have any idea what that means? What does that mean for someone with two trucks, a small company, two drivers, a family business? Every document I take to a colleague's office when I go somewhere, or send it by mail or e-mail, someone translates it to me, usually it's not translated in one second, and then all the documents go back and put themselves on the driver's way only then, besides all the applications, along with everything else. Anyone who has little clarity who has ever worked in the real sector knows that it is almost lifeless to do this kind of work. These are the people who do not require from Slovenia any other, only that the Government with its institutions, with the bodies of ministries, government services and foreign ministries and even a number of people who sunbathe on different continents of the world, that at least here, because this is a political story, politics approaches and helps. They're the ones who got their own job. They're competitive in foreign companies, they're a good partner, and they need help here. Not that the government deals with holidays, kidnapping children, and such matters as protecting them, they need help here. The time has already been, and it has been, under this government since the beginning, that is, since spring 2015, when the drastic punishments were under the old legislation and when the full bureaucratic war against the Slovenians began, but you did not act. You must know that the 130 lawsuits that went to the European Commission did not go yesterday or January. This case has been going on for months, and it's been going on for a year. The people themselves, without state institutions, decided to find a suitable law firm and somehow began to press charges against the European Commission. That's the truth. I'm not accusing today. With these proposals, we want you to not always live in a comfort zone, because we have prepared for you, as we have prepared in the previous government, complete measures. Now we have economic growth. Most companies have decided to go even more into export, people are going to work in Austria or have already moved to Austria, so people have done everything themselves, without politics. Now, for the first time, you are asked to do something for them through your services. Take an active approach. A friendly neighbour of Austria should have been invited to bilateral meetings a long time ago. Someone from the Ministry of the Economy told me that the minister had already heard from Vice Chancellor Reinhold Mitterlehnner. I talked to him, like, fourteen days ago or a week ago. We're personal friends, I called him and asked him what the situation was and told him that we had been friends so far. And he told me we had some rotten apples. Of course, he could have thrown something back to me. Back he threw away that the inspectors in Slovenia, as former colleague Pojbič spoke, did not work. That we have rotten apples, which is the truth. We have companies that have been exploiting, we have driven workers from the south, from our former brother republics, extremely exploited, and our inspection authorities, which are understaffed, do not carry out everything and do not sanction them. Then, of course, the judicial routes and everything else, complaints that are possible, of course, only those that closed the company, chained the companies, made new businesses and shed a bad light on other entrepreneurs. It is therefore necessary to say this to those who are critical. Some of the people I know and work in Austria have also said that they are even on Austria's side, because there have been a lot of companies that have shed a bad light. But these companies wouldn't throw a bad light if they did my own homework in this country. When I, in my parliamentary debates here in Parliament, have already explained my practice, my vision of abroad, where I have spent some of my most fruitful years, where there are order and discipline, "die ordnung", as they say, discipline, reward for it, some of course do not listen, some of them immediately have for some big ugly neoliberal. Today we find that even the United Left is a great "fan" of Austria. This is the latest acquisition we have in Parliament. I respect their will, they're on the right track, and they need to be helped to stay on this path so they don't think the money's going to grow on ATMs. But I would like to say something that is important that these bureaucratic obstacles, according to these law firms, are indeed on the limit of permissible. I've been looking at some other things that these law offices have given us a few points, and these points are amazing. One of those points was said by Mrs Škof. For the first time, she said that the government had acted very anaemicly, secondly that they wanted to say that it did not know why the Ministry of Labour had not introduced the BUAK fund, which Austria and also Germany have, so far, why we are waiting for. I have some information here. I have to translate it to tell you exactly. In Germany we have SOKA-BAU, in Austria our company has to pay 40 euros per employee per day to the fund from which allowances are paid, holidays and departures, these are the so-called parity funds. 42 000 people in construction pay – they are supposed to pay and pay – so we in Austria, because we did not establish this in Slovenia, leave it to our respected colleagues and colleagues, 260 million euros. 260 million euro is this money from Slovenian companies. This is just one reference point by the Bar Association and also by the Chamber of Commerce, where it has been dealt with for several years, so that we can get closer to similar situations such as Austria or Germany. This means protecting quality workers, means for all those who are socially sensitive, as you say, because we are not supposed to be, and we just want to be socially sensitive, just have to earn something first. I don't know why you haven't introduced this socially sensitive party, as you say, now that you have the Ministry. The Ministry of Labour is most engaged in a failed piar, where young people who are unemployed are employed, give someone 5,000 euros, hire someone for two years, and in two years it will be the same at the stock exchange again, and we will have a possible government and we will have 10,000. Without hiring them or training them, as they do abroad, into professions where they can really get a job for an indefinite time and then work. These are all other questions. It's about the transporters. It's about abnormal measures and abnormal activity. What does it matter? What do the carriers explain to me, and what do I explain when I teach? I'm more involved with industry 4.0 as an engineer and an economist, and I'll just tell you something, distinguished representatives of the government. External logistics is one of the most important factors in industry 4.0. It means integration of external and internal logistics, internal information systems, internal complete information technology, along with robotics, RIHD systems and everything else. It means an important factor and essentially strengthens one competitive economy. This is what Europe is waiting for – surely the most developed part of the world – and it will prove to be. This is the product that derails China, because China can have a free labour force and it will no longer be competitive. What are major logistics companies doing in Central Europe? What is Austria's strategy? At the border they set up logistics companies such as Trummer, Joebstl, Gartner, Steindorfer and so on, which have hundreds of trucks, a parent company in Austria and all branches abroad. Of course, they want to have primate and total monopoly in this area, at least in Central Europe, in a logistical sense. In the next 10 years, when industry 4.0 is fully integrated, Slovenians can, precisely because of the delay in certain measures, the rest of the servants in logistics, and this country, which has the best geopolitical position, which has a highway cross built and in which we can do nothing with this geostrategic position. This government – here we have a representative of the Ministry of Economy – the same carriers ask the Slovenians, in addition to all the problems they have, and especially you, why, when they are on their way to Luxembourg, they have to go even 100 or 200 kilometers to Luxembourg to pump fuel there because there was less oil there a few days ago than a euro. It was less than one euro. They're in line for an hour. Again, they ask me as a Member to address to the Government the issue of low excise duties. Luxembourg has an incredible turnover due to its low excise duties and receives so much more in the budget, which is all reflected in high GDP. And this is only from excise or low excise policy because they have a special model, and they are always at the border of conflict with the European Commission. These same carriers also ask me why you are so machete and why you should not let this money be left in Slovenia by carriers and foreign carriers on petrol pumps. Above all, you destroy our east, the most recent places near me and my colleague Pojbič, the Slovenian Mountains, which are very poor, the places near Radgona, the Murska Sobota, where petrol pumps are empty, even small natural persons are already fueling everything in Austria. Trucks don't stop at all and so on. They ask me why through Austria, in addition to all these bureaucratic obstacles, one truck between Šentilje and Passau, where they leave Austria, where they go further towards Germany, 150 euros – that is, the total price of the toll and the price of the tunnel. A stranger enters Slovenia in the Long Village, drives for a time on the highway, no one sanctions him if he turns a little off the highway down, and can drive to Konjic for 32 euros. Don't even fill up the fuel here. That's why it's devastating because we don't think logically because we don't see outside the box. This is what I am talking about here in Parliament for hours, days and days, years and years, if necessary. Those are the answers. These are questions today and here. Don't think about it. There's no Slovenian anywhere near Magno, which is an Austrian logistics company. I know Magne representatives, we can only ask them to be some other third subcontractor if we're talking about logistics or carriers. Everyone else – Hofer, Lidl – look at the trucks coming to Slovenia. Where do the trucks come from? Except for some of our suppliers, these are Slovenians, the rest are all Austrian. The cash ends tonight, the money is taken away and taken to Austria. If someone is inclined to this winemaking thinking, the winemaking mentality, the socialist, then others are serving us. Then we'll be servants forever. I would like to tell you how we would not be servants to be someone who would create a chain and have some kind of business that would be multinational to create it in Slovenia. It just doesn't go through the night. It starts with little things. It begins with a story of how Commissioner Tajani was at the time winding up Vlačič's ear, how they prevented us from drawing European funds for motorways, how we even agreed to the price he set for us. As my colleague and I said, we are kneeling, it can be a farmer's term, but I like to use it as Slovenian Goričan. And now we're making up gloves on our hands when two and a half years of people have been explaining themselves to us, honest entrepreneurs. I am talking about honest entrepreneurs, people who pay well workers, Slovenian companies, that something is wrong, that they need help. They've done it all by themselves. The government said they were observing the situation or that they had joined a law firm that had been working on it for three years. Now they're on. "We're monitoring the situation, I've called my colleague." No, at this point bilateral meetings between ministers should already be held, the Prime Minister of the Government should be already in Vienna, the chancellor should make it clear that we know the sophisticated bureaucratic measures in Slovenia, that we can also drive in Luka Koper in the case of Austrian trucks, which are standing on hundreds that have never been sanctioned, while Slovenians have been sanctioned, and we also invent this at the moment, we are looking for treaties, including anti-dumping, because I explained earlier that Hungarians, Czechs and Polishes are sitting in Austrian trucks because they have their subsidiaries in these countries and they are considered Austrian companies, and that we also want to have a Slovenian because Slovenia is also supposed to be a European official language. And here's the question. Here too, Minister of Culture Peršak could sit and protect Slovenian language at the European level. We could tell our colleagues in a good way at a bilateral meeting. It's nice to talk to the Austrians. I am a great friend of them, with Austrian politics, but only I can protect Slovenian interests. So far, we have common interests, we are a friendly country, and here are the interests of my citizens and citizens, our entrepreneurs and our economists, who are giving us all bread together, with me at the moment when I am a politician. It's my job as a policy to help them open doors, not to monitor the situation. In order to monitor the situation, they do not need to pay me for such a price and pay one bureaucrat apparatus, which costs a million euros. I am not indignant to the European Commissioner if he says he has EUR 25 000 to pay if he does something to benefit us for the Republic of Slovenia. Twenty-five thousand people think it's a terrible sum, but if she makes billions of benefits for Slovenia, we'll never see that money. But sitting around and saying that everything is going to get rid of itself, it's not going to happen. [[…]] You are a government under which everything has been resolved, because we have taken some measures three years ago – banks have been rehabilitated, ugly ZUJF has been done, and now of course the matter is going on. We've put the boat in the right direction and it's going. And now things are coming. So far you've been in the comfort zone and everything has been going on normally. You can take some nice laws to make people like them, and that's it. But now there are serious problems when you have to prove yourself and find one diplomatic strategy that is most appropriate not to close our doors to prove that we are a friendly country, but to protect Slovenian interests on the other. Slovenian logistics. Dear colleagues, a few years ago we established the Faculty of Logistics, we have experts in logistics, we have been saying for decades that we have an incredible geostrategic position, but we have done more than that. It is now the first time that it has started to fall here as well and that we are losing on the entire line in Slovenian logistics as well as in a sector that can have unfathomable dimensions for our companies and for our benefit. This is the basis of the debate that I want to say. This was also the basis of the debate that the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as colleagues from Nova Slovenije, wanted to present. I won't be insulting, I want to be critical, but these are the subjects where there is no left and right where we have to help each other. This is the first time this has happened to us. Let's face it, it happens to us that it's us. If we were anywhere a little in the breach, we immediately put our heads down and did everything that Europe said. Now you can see that Europe is also a bed of sick bureaucrats. When I see it, when I walk around Brussels, when I go to some conferences, even from strategic defence policy and other, all I do is get a headache and think that my people are poor, who makes their strategies and what will develop out of it. Now it's our job. Dear representatives of the government, we want to give you support so that you can be decisive. Be kind, but be firm on this path and also tell the exact story of our vineyards that we have always been, as they say, a model member of the EU. We were good-looking. Now, for the first time, when a neighbouring country seriously imposes major bureaucratic obstacles and undermines companies, it undermines workers and undermines not least our capital in neighbouring Austria.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u51	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mr Peter Pogačar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the light of the debate present, however, some clarifications need to be made. On the part of the Government, we are very pleased with the + debate because it shows that we all have a common goal, this is the protection of the Slovenian economy. However, it seems to me that during the debate today a number of things have been exposed that require further clarifications. First of all, as regards the obligation to apply for work in advance. It's not a bureaucratic obstacle. This is a requirement of European directives, which Slovenia also requires of foreign service providers. There's no doubt here, I think we agree. It has been said that straw companies from Slovenia have violated legislation in Austria regarding posted workers and that therefore our good entrepreneurs, which has been exposed, are likely to be in poor voice in foreign countries. This is one of the key objectives of the Law on the Implementation of Cross-border Services that we have prepared, which we will consider in the coming weeks, that straw companies will no longer be called straw companies. They will no longer be able to travel our workers to Austria, leave them there free of charge, without contributions, because they are damaging the reputation of our entire economy. We need to be aware of something that has been pointed out several times already today that Slovenian legislation in terms of the protection of the rights of workers performing work in another Member State is within the competence of each Member State. Today I have heard quite a few times that we have not followed the adoption of Austrian legislation in this area. Of course we did. We were just watching. But legislation itself is not discriminatory from the point of view of the rules of the European Union, unless it distinguishes between foreign and domestic providers, which it does not. The problem that has arisen here is the implementation of this law in practice by the Austrian supervisory authorities. It did not start until this year and immediately when we were informed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Government started its activities and will continue its activities, which my colleague, State Secretary Cantarutti, will also stress. The issue of transport was mentioned. I think we all agree that in the case of transport – but we are not talking about transit, we are talking about bilateral transport, we are talking about cabotage in the case of transport – it is a specific activity. It was said that there were promises that this would be exempt. The National Assembly has adopted its position. The European directive on posted workers is being amended. With regard to this amendment to the directive, Slovenia has explicitly put itself in two positions with the consent of the National Assembly. The first is that we agree with the fight against social dumping within the European Union and the second position adopted by this national assembly is that transport should be exempted from the posted workers directive. Of course, negotiations on the content of this amended directive are currently taking place at European Union level, but the Republic of Slovenia has a clear position here – the area of transport should be regulated by specific rules governing transport. Perhaps just a comment about the payments to the BUAK fund, as Member Breznik was talking about. We have been familiar with this problem for some time. That is why this National Assembly, with the new Labour Relations Act, which was adopted in March 2013, has, if I am not mistaken, expressly laid down in Article 208 that employers and posted workers may agree on how the worker will be entitled to the rights of the BUAK fund. It is said that the employer who has agreed with the worker to receive this payment in a different way is not obliged to pay into the BUAK fund. This means that, on my part, I can conclude that in no way does the government hold that the government has not reacted. We need to refrain from assessing flat-rate estimates that Austrian legislation is discriminatory. That's not how I understood you either. It is important that we react if the way this legislation is implemented is such that it could discriminate against our companies. In this regard, the Government has already carried out certain activities and will continue to do so. If I'm allowed to, I'd let a fellow Secretary of State supplement me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u53	The State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, mag. Aleš Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u54	Thank you, President. There's something else that won't stay in the air just like a real colleague, like we didn't do anything. I absolutely can't agree with that. A few specific dates and activities. Firstly, last December, Slovenia, on the Council of the European Union for Transport, Telecommunications and Energy, made it clear that such trends, which we are witnessing now and not only in Austria, but elsewhere, we are talking about transport, particularly in Western European countries, are not in line with the European practice of the Single Market. 17. 1. The Minister of Infrastructure sent a letter to the Austrian Minister with all the warnings and suggestions that the implementation of the law should remain pending the finding of its non-compliance with the EU acquis. At the Ministry, colleagues are still waiting for an answer. Similarly, on 26 January, the Minister of Economy sent a letter to his colleague to the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Austria, even with the desire to exchange views as soon as possible. Of course, we are also waiting there for an answer and, of course, a deadline. It just doesn't go from today to tomorrow. Of course, we can call friendly, there's no problem, but you know very well that there are rules in diplomacy. A meeting with the Head of Directorate of the European Commission responsible for road transport is also in preparation. At the end of February – the launch of the common declaration of 11 of the same thinking countries is foreseen for the next Council of the European Commission. And so on. Colleagues from economic diplomacy or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are constantly in contact with other countries. Above all, the initiative V4+Slovenia, which has also been mediated, has been mentioned in the introduction, and has in fact been coordinated by our Embassy in Vienna. So we can't say we're sitting around waiting. And there's something else I'd like to mention. The possible action of Slovenia in the European Court of Justice against Austria was also raised or mentioned. That there would be no mistake here and no misunderstanding. This is the extreme measure that the Republic of Slovenia has. However, we need to know that we will first try to reach agreement with our colleagues from Austria in the spirit of the single market, in the spirit of the European Union, with all the other activities, in particular communication. Such lawsuits are rare and, if you ask me, inappropriate, especially in relation to the two neighbours. But I want us to know that we also have this possibility in extreme force, which I absolutely do not wish to prejudge. We'll do everything else before we happen to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u55	Once again, the representative of the proposer, Mr Franz Breznik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u56	Thank you for your answers, Secretary of State. Of course we agree. In this case, it is difficult to prove discriminatory. This is very difficult to prove, but discrimination can best be identified indirectly, this is in the implementation of the law. In the Bar Association of Grilc Vouk Škof, which has brought these 130s and several lawsuits to the European Commission, they identify or perceive a number of such banal practical cases that I will cite. The Law on Payment and Social Dumping shall apply from 1 January 2017. It applies to companies providing cross-border labour and workers services in Austria, including in agriculture, wood cutting and the like, so that we do not forget. Exceptions are business meetings without additional services, participation in seminars, lectures, participation in fairs, international university education, posting up to two months in the framework of a company development firm and so on. That doesn't count in this law. So these are the exceptions. These people in these industries and university work don't have these problems. The next story, which is important and cited, is the undermining of liquidity and penalties without a legal decision. "Austria, with laws that impose unreasonable high penalties, undermines the liquidity of foreign companies," is a confident lawyer, Marija Škof of this law firm. "The guarantee to be paid by the contracting authority if the service or contributions of the operators are not paid. While this arrangement is already in force, the law provides for the guarantee of the contracting authority. The party, i.e. the final contracting authority, will guarantee the salaries and contributions to be paid in Austria if they are not paid by the company or the employer." That's what she said for the Finance Officer. "The Administrative Court received several complaints from companies concerning the guarantees issued against companies by the authorities." We know that, too. We were able to track it in the media. "The law has sent a judgment to the Austrian Constitutional Court, no decision yet." So it's already going to the judicial branch of power. We also have information that the Austrian courts have so far not asked the courts of the European Union to explain the law whether it is contrary to European law or not, which can be done by the home courts of the home countries. "The biggest problem is not the rules on guarantees, but their implementation," the lawyer points out. That's exactly where we agree. It will be difficult to prove direct discrimination, slander, anything, but we can dramatize it, underpin it with the real problems they are. "The provisions on guarantees have been widely implemented by the Austrian authorities over the past year. When the Authority exercised control, the contracting authority was ordered to pay the guarantee at an amount corresponding to the amount outstanding under the contract. But that's where the problem comes in. This amount is then used by Austria as a security for possible penalties, which is contrary to the applicable rules." The article goes on to say: "The Škofova recalls Directive 2014/67/EU, which provides for a procedure for the recovery of penalties and, inter alia, speaks of the fact that the authorities of the guarantee amount should not be used for the payment of penalties." Next says the lawyer: "And secondly, from the cases we know, we can say that so far it has not happened that the security has not been awarded to the contracting authority on the basis of a legal decision that would have found the service of the offence. It would be correct for the authorities to verify that there are circumstances before the security order......" This company therefore notes that such behaviour essentially undermines the liquidity of the company. It also cites the case where authorities have issued a security of EUR 35,000 per company. The penalty for the company was EUR 11,000 and EUR 24 000 has not yet been paid back to the company. This security is therefore still on the ground of Austria. They imagine that security must also be for any subsequent penalties they may receive. This is therefore contrary to the European Directive, we already have a violation, a perceived breach in the implementation of the law. Then again these great fines are cited, which have become more tangible, as we have already seen. The fine, which was once €726, can now be some €10 000. The minimum penalty may be increased if the inspector finds infringements in more than three workers. So now it's a worker's head, not a formal punishment for everyone. Then the punishments just add up. That's why we get to the hundreds of penalties that apply. What are those fines? That's interesting. "The non-transfer of documents, obstacles to access to business premises, obstacles to and difficulties in control, lack of access to documentation. The fines range from thousands to 10,000 euros per worker and a misdemeanour; in the case of a repetition of between 2,000 and 20,000 euros; in the case of irregularities in more than three workers, the penalty is between 2,000 and 20,000 euros; and in the case of a repetition of between 4,000 and 50,000 euros per sentence. The fines shall also be provided in the event that the undertaking does not notify the change of workers." Then it is interesting what these fines, which are abnormal, are most often prescribed. Dumpings have almost been detected so far, but they are essentially fines for minimum misdemeanors, where it's just that someone didn't have an orderly translation. He had all the documentation with him, but one payment sheet or whatever wasn't translated into German. It is therefore a minimum offence where we could require that this be delivered within a few days. Here again is the issue of Slovenian as the official language of the European Union, which could also be highlighted and more defended here. Then there are such excesses. "But the truth is, of all the currently open social and payment dumping procedures, there is very little. The majority of the procedures in which the companies were located refer to 'heights and dots', i.e. formalities. Someone chooses the wrong form relating to a business contract or the hiring of a labour force. It is difficult for a lawyer to determine which form it is, but only for an entrepreneur, because it is necessary to examine each case on a case-by-case basis." So Austrian lawyers, our Slovenians, who are lawyers in Austria who have knowledge, say that they already have this problem, let alone for companies or companies operating in the Austrian market. These are real problems. Here we can see, despite the fact that we are discussing violations of the implementation of this legislation and that these are the perfidious measures that we are referring to as proposers of this meeting. Austria is therefore changing several laws, but it is particularly focused on social dumping when it tries to get through a number of things under this title. They say that the Austrian social treasury is now at risk, where the Austrians have to pay more than others. These are the pronunciations of Austrian politics. They are even talking about the transport sector that Slovenians are taking 500 million euros from them in this logistics story. This is why I, who know Austria as a country where I have lived for a while, are concerned about this policy. And with a specific example, I'm going to call you at the end of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Ms Darja Bavdaž Kuret, State Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Today we are addressing a question that is multilayered. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also part of the government structure involved. Our embassy in Vienna has been mentioned many times. Let me stress that our embassy in Vienna has been informed since the beginning of this legislation and has also informed us that it is in regular contact with the Austrian authorities and that it draws attention to the problem or the problem we are facing in the context of the regular diplomatic dialogue. Moreover, our embassy and Slovenian diplomacy are proactive in terms of gaining support and lobbying between countries facing the same problems and trying to form a group of equally thinking countries. Yesterday, together with the countries of V4, we referred to the highest Austrian authorities as Czech, Polish, Hungarian and Slovak. Secondly, our permanent diplomatic representation, which is also extremely proactively involved in the whole issue, is the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. One of the activities it initiated is to intervene with the European Commission in order to ensure that the complaints made by the aforementioned Slovenian Automobiles addressed to the Commission through the legal office in Celovac are implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u59	The word has Mr. Zvonko Lah, prepare to be mag. Branko Grims and Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, Guests! It is interesting to listen to this debate by the proponents and other discussers, what problems we have in Slovenia and how the neighbouring Austria reacted to what the mass pressure of various Slovenian operators – mainly services as well as craftsmen – had to find themselves in the Austrian market. When the crisis occurred, many of the major construction companies in particular collapsed, as well as others. Even smaller subcontractors, businesses, and craftsmen were out of work if it was only that if they did not lose all their possessions — which was also a lot of them — and they had to have a belly for bread. Then, as extremely good performers, they chose to do business in neighbouring countries and were satisfied for a while. Of course, this was then born in such a way that, as already mentioned, we had so-called dooes or straw companies then sent workers to these parts to neighbouring countries, exhausted them, paid off by the contracting authority, paid no workers and left the workers practically in the construction site. Did you hear that some Austrian company that worked in Slovenia did this to its workers? I didn't hear it. It is logical that the State, when the contracting authority paid for everything and the remaining workers, who did not have any money to return home, would turn to the state authorities, and they had to respond in a way that was becoming more and more. That's probably what encouraged it. On the other hand, what Breznik said earlier was that the prices of services were significantly lower than those of domestic operators, because the standard is significantly higher because wages are twice that of us, so it is normal that they considered this to be a dumped approach. Any government or policy would have reacted, probably even to us if we had seen it, but we probably didn't see it. They, and some other country, are masters of how European legislation and regulations in implementation are in some way a pretense or a misstep for the benefit of their citizens, which is also logical. And I would have shown some other aspect here. We do not only have a northern border where our workers go to work and receive a significantly higher salary than in Slovenia. We also have a southern border. Also in Slovenia are such workers and performers from other republics of the former Yugoslavia, register companies with us, work for a while, bring all their families with them to Slovenia and in some ways have the same rights as citizens of Slovenia. Then these companies go bankrupt, register another and so on. I wonder how many of these people are in Slovenian social life in this way? We're dealing with some Roma problem, how much it costs us, but as far as I know, there's more. But we're good, merciful, we've got a lot of money, like a colleague said, with money in ATMs, it's growing. Services, too. They are the hottest, as colleague Breznik mentioned earlier, either cutting or harvesting services in the woods. We have a live example of a state company and its operators, how many of these operators have come across the border and at what price they are cutting. Of course, those of our contractors from before, the concessionaries with whom our workers received good wages, contributions, everything, wages and winters, when there was no work, have now run out of work. What is the service of those who do, because only the price of the tender is important, and this is the invitation to tender for the state company, but we will soon have results. On the other hand, our foresters do not receive raw materials or logs from our forests. They were counting on bringing her from abroad, but it's not going to work from Croatia and Bosnia because they somehow blocked the export of this shade because they had come to the idea that it would be better to wait a little while at home and they would process it themselves. And technologically, we have already been overtaken in this area. It's a shame the state is now putting some millions into the wood processing industry, a couple of million dollars to catch up. Nope, no more. Our Slovenians, especially the Dolenjci, are going for building furniture in Bosnia because the price is half and by quality German production, as in Slovenia, nothing worse. There's not much of that. How do we protect ourselves here? We don't have to, we don't care about the economy. The Austrians are willing to fight, to sue for their rights to protect their own, although there is a free movement of capital, services in the European Union and I do not know what else. But they know that, and we don't. Then we'll be surprised in a few years' time when we won't have carriers anymore, like our colleague said. They do not have a geostrategic position like Slovenia, but they locate the logists near Slovenia. But this is their I saw on our roads a lot of trucks for transporting wood with Austrian registration. I doubt they brought wood to Slovenia, because ours probably already have problems driving this wood directly to Austria, unless they're translating at the border, which is too complicated. That's how we're gonna slowly destroy that and fight badly. The easiest thing to say is that we are right under the European directives and will sue the European Commission. 2 million people, 509 million or how many other Europeans. Just like the terrace: We're not gonna talk, we're gonna sue. We will receive the lawsuit in three, four years, but by then we will drink more Croatian ground than Slovenian. It will be here, as my colleague has already mentioned. We're gonna sue, but what's it gonna do to these trucks they're wearing if there's no traffic if the truck doesn't have traffic? We will have trucks on auctions for a few thousand euros that will be bought if not by Austrians or from Bosnia or Croatia, because we do not care enough because obviously state officials and politicians live in another world. I could now list ten butal things in our regulations that make the economy more difficult. If we're going to do this in order, from bylaws to laws, we're not going to clean up for 10 years, because we have 800 laws, let's say 17,000 under-laws. Because we just don't have a sense of the economy, like it's a skyscraper. Some money has come up, economic growth at the expense of exporters, we're going to share and pay officials to increase and hire some more. Good public service is the basis for the development of the state, so said Minister Koprivnikar. And what did he do? The mandate will be over. How much less red tape do we have? How many administrative barriers have been removed? I don't see any concrete results. If we ask the economists, they'll say it's nothing, it's just worse. As Minister of the Jews last responded to the problem with the terrace, it is now easier to say that we will press charges, but that this is an extreme measure, but we will talk first. I'm interested, as the motioner has already said, in particular, in who and with whom. This is like sending an official a letter to another official and doing his job. If he doesn't answer for six months, it's not his fault he did his thing. Then it's back to six months for the answer, and the year's over. But both officials got 12 salaries during that time. Why? What did you do? Is it easier to sue? And the minister and the secretary of state will go to Strasbourg – three times, four times, five times – because of this lawsuit, and we will win in the end, but the terrace will be no more, no more Slovenian carriers. They'll drive from Bosnia because they have much cheaper fuels. You can install another tank on the other side of the truck, pour a thousand litres of oil or other paintless fuel, and drive one week after Slovenia, and then go back for a refill. Could our carrier be cheaper than him? It can't be. We do not do enough for those who feed us who create money to fill the budget from which we receive our wages. I'm guessing it's getting worse. However, the main fault is not from the Minister and the Secretary of State, and I cannot defend them, and we, Members, are not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is a liberalised state, government officials who have been in the same place for 20 years, who think like 20 years ago and have not moved completely and no one can do anything about it – not the Secretary of State who came, not the Minister, not the Members. That is why the aim of these officials is to have as many Members in Parliament as possible, as few Ministers and State Secretaries as possible. They're doing it, thank God. That's why we chased out the mayors. In the neighbouring country of Croatia, when they build and eliminate those gains of the socialist revolution from their ministries, they bring instead of officials people from the economy or from the municipality, because they have experience in the economy or in local self-government, experience and feelings of working with people. We don't have that. That's my main reason, and it's going to have to be eliminated. Someone will have to put something in this love of Slovenia and put an end to it, otherwise we will only go down. Then the goal will be for us, the Slovenes, the fathers and the mothers, to train our children to work in neighbouring countries, because they will receive twice the salary for the same work and have twice or more higher pensions for the same work at an old age. But distances are no longer as big as they used to be. That is why 12,000 young qualified people left last year. How many are there who live with us and have companies registered outside? If we put all this together, we really don't have a bright future. We don't even know how to negotiate about our people, like other countries' policies. Let's say Croatia, where they bring us around every deal. Anyone who remembers and has little time brings us around. But finally, I'm going to say something else that my old father told me when I was very young. He said, "You know, the worst thing we'll ever do is be a servant minister."
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u61	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Prepare Mrs Janja Slug and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u62	Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has received another non-trust. This time, the entrepreneurs gave it to her. Those entrepreneurs whom you so like to refer to when the government claims it has increased employment, and in doing so, shut up where these jobs are – in neighbouring Austria. However, when it comes to helping entrepreneurs who have actually made these jobs available in neighbouring Austria, which operate with Austria, the government is not at the same time, or it is limited to trying to manage matters in the context of well-neighbourly friendly discussions, when the harmful consequences for Slovenian companies are already being accumulated. You've let the entrepreneurs down twice. First, when it comes to legal aid, because I have witnessed, not once, repeatedly, how people have sought appropriate information, what needs to be reported, and what is not needed. They received completely contradictory information and were appalled when they received an interpretation from the Austrians that everything should be re-registered not only if it changes the person, but also if it changes the location. Let's say one takes it once, and I did once, because it's in one company that provides, say, a certain product with multiple addresses, which is the most normal thing. How many things, then, do you have to do bureaucraticly in order to do so? The punishments, ladies and gentlemen, are crazy, it's draconian, it really has nothing to do with what Austria is saying. In fact, it is a deliberate destruction of Slovenian companies and entrepreneurship when it comes to Austria and the roads leading to Austria. Here you have left Slovenian entrepreneurs stranded. You're saying the government has opened 30,000 jobs. True, but it was people who hired themselves, either through entrepreneurs or directly abroad. Companies were able to open jobs by doing business with Austria, but they are driving products up here. Some people send people up. All of this is related to the topic that we are talking about today. What did you get this mistrust in? In the end, entrepreneurs organise themselves and, through the Bar Association of Grilc Vouk Škof, bring direct lawsuits because you did not do so because you have to worry that you are friends, that you go to dinner together and smile nicely, and they are demanding the economic foundation of Slovenia. Since, of course, it is a waste of money, some money should be spent, which you urgently need to give to NGOs, then to provide legal assistance to illegal migrants, which is worth €170,000. It's not a waste of money. No, no, no, that's me. For illegal migrants, for all who are illegal, this is supported, it is paid either indirectly or directly. Directly give a thousand €963 per migrant a month, and indirectly give NGOs about €170,000 per year to care for legal aid so that those who are unjustifiable do not have to complete procedures quickly, but to drag on for months and that Slovenian taxpayers – read: precisely those entrepreneurs who are compensated here – pay for your stupidity through the budget. Why do we call this a social experiment? Because in this way you force people to move their entrepreneurs' seats abroad and then, of course, these tricks no longer apply to them, but then everything they create stays abroad. And you respect migrants, illegal migrants. Great, new voters. Well, let's make it cost him what he wants. Power is important if Slovenia fails three times. Then you get excited when you adopt different legislation to create even more impressions, and you argue a little for the public that the naive are falling for it. You can actually see here who you really care about. But those who should be your first concern, successful entrepreneurs, are your last. But without successful entrepreneurship, it's nothing because it's the foundation on which the state is built. It's the only thing that's long-term policy. It's the only thing that's long-term security for people, economic security. This is the best social investment when an entrepreneur opens a new quality job. And then the state has some of it because it pays taxes. But it doesn't even beat you up. You're just making new taxes and new taxes. It is just today that a review has been published again, which all taxes and taxes will be imposed by this government on the poor entrepreneurs whose work is already the most taxed in the world. You have a world record, bravo, great. You're really good. A man would cry. But when someone needs your help, then no, then they have to organize themselves and turn around and press charges themselves, because it seems to you to be an extreme asset, while the damage is already coming. What kind of extreme asset? Where have you been, ladies and gentlemen in the government? The damage is already coming. The punishments are draconian. There have been many examples, and I can give them to you. For example, when they set a security of EUR 25 and more thousands, and then even if the penalty is imposed, those guarantees will not be returned at all. Companies, however, are running out of liquid assets. Then how is he supposed to do business? Did you forget that? But it's important that you have a nice time. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not for being nice. The government is making sure that all systems in society work. First of all, promotion and care for successful entrepreneurship must certainly be a priority. For that one permanent foundation of prosperity that really exists. Can you once go out of socialism, with this thought out, that the country is the one who has to take everything, and then it spreads it so wisely? This has never happened in the world, ladies and gentlemen. This has always led to the collapse of the economy. The economy needs to be breathed, the economy needs to be helped. He needs help at home and abroad. There you can see what real concern is for entrepreneurship. Whether you do what you can or can't do, people organize themselves and in this way say no to you. That is exactly what happened in this case. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been given confidence by entrepreneurs who work and employ our people in Austria. Another mystery in a whole series of non-truststers you've already received because you haven't done your job. You knew what was coming, you said it yourself. You protested a little, but there were no next steps. But don't say now that you have this in mind and that that might be the last measure we've heard before. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been the case since the new year! The problems are huge, while in Austria they're screwing around if you don't understand. They make fun of our companies, our entrepreneurs, Slovenia, because they want to remove one competition from their market, which is already very closed in various informal ways. This is what the Austrians know very well, with direct and direct incentives for theirs and problems for ours. With all that talk about open borders and European standards and so on. That's what they know. The only way to cut this is to use all possible resources – and in time, ladies and gentlemen – to protect Slovenian entrepreneurs and their employees when performing their tasks or work in Austria. Is that so hard to do? Is that so hard to understand? It's just, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we have to do, not talk about it. I do not understand how it is possible for you to deal with all things, while those of us who are most proud in your words and who are most referred to when they are opening up new jobs leave behind at a time when they actually need help and protection from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the obvious bullying carried out by one of the neighbours. Don't talk about good-neighbourly relations. You received the first Austrian non-trust at the state level at the time when the state of Austria started to set up fences and carry out border control by Slovenia in all those who go across the border here at the once fully open Schengen border. In 2007, the government of Janez Janša allowed us to enter the Schengen area. That wasn't self-evident at the time. According to the original plan, many people in the European Union could not be able to do so much later. So we did it. You're the one who wasted it. The moment the border closed up there, the moment the controls began to take place when the fences began to grow, the Schengen was over. There are also draconian penalties provided for, and that's where you got your first mistrust. However, you received another non-trust from your own businesses and entrepreneurs, because they had to organise themselves to seek protection within the framework of the European Union's legal order, which, if this government were worthy of its name, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to provide, but it has not done so and obviously does not intend to do so for a long time. For what you do is obviously without effect. The problems remain, the money goes out of hand for businesses, jobs are lost, funds are lost, and this is how everything goes down. Or that's your goal, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u63	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u64	Thank you very much. In fact, at the beginning of today's meeting, I have found that we all have a unified opinion today, that we are kind of constructive and we kind of agree on things, but unfortunately now the last predecessor, and earlier on Mr Pojbič has shown that perhaps not, but perhaps again, that again someone has not listened when things were said on the committee, that perhaps someone has not even listened to the views of his own group, which was very correct, very finely presented and I can agree with it in just about everything. But well, there's one, and two, I don't know. Let's just say something. We're talking about how this government didn't just protest in advance when some regulations were being drawn up and I don't know what. It has been said on the Committee and it has been said today that the regulations which Austria has adopted in September are exactly the same as Slovenia has, and there is absolutely nothing wrong with them in legal terms. Therefore, these perceptions of when the government should have reacted are one thing at a time, yet again, some claims on the line. The problem that we have identified and where we have all agreed is the implementation of these rules. The last time we spoke was that in Austria they were anyway on New Year's holidays until 6 January, so we said. Well? They started implementing this legislation in this way, for example, on 7 January. Not in the middle of last year or September. The activities that our government has done and have been very well represented on the committee have also begun in January, and they have not been able to do before, because everything was fine before. But it has been said, once again, I will say that our legislation is exactly the same. Even with us, you won't believe it, there's a fine for a foreign employer whose employee doesn't have an A1 form, 30,000 euros. The problem is enforcement because we don't have these fines, and that's where they are. And the government, once again, when you're nodding, had nothing to react to in September. I don't know how we can make this any clearer. Also in the position of your Group of Members, it was said that everything must be done to ensure that no action is brought. Why? Since Austria is third in the course of trade in Slovenia, it is the most important investor in Slovenia and so on. Mr Breznik also agreed and debated all the time in this regard. I agree with everything he said. All the other activities available at this time are the sending of protest letters, arrangements for meetings, cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, with the Chamber of Commerce, with the legal society from Celovac, which also has full support from our Government, by MGRT and so on, are taking place. Also, the law firm in Celovac said that the law itself is the law of the city, that there is no dispute in any way. When you're talking about 125 lawsuits, let me warn you. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, 130. These aren't lawsuits. These are complaints. There's a little difference in that. These are complaints to the European Commission, which, after examining them, decides what the next steps will be. The injured here is not just Slovenia. It was also said that a group of 11 countries had already been formed to deal with exactly the same problems that had already been encountered in January and to form common positions to protest. Colleague Jasna, who learns a little bit more about this matter, says that there is also an institute of preliminary decision-making, with which we can speed things up and achieve some effects earlier. It was said that all ministries – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Infrastructure – responded. So! Not in September, not in the middle of last year, because there were no violations at the time and there was no idea how this legislation would be implemented, but as soon as these violations, so to speak, began. We've all found out we don't want a lawsuit. We don't want to. We want things to be resolved on a bilateral level, and this is what we do all the time. When we talk about the European Commissioner, I believe that you know very well what the European Commissioner is. The European Commissioner must represent the interests of the European Union and it is by no means acceptable to work for the benefit of one Member State or for the benefit of the country from which it comes. This simply cannot be done, it is not his work and it is not in line with the role of the European Commissioner. Let us also share what cross-border services are and what transport is. With regard to transport, we have taken a clear position in the National Assembly on the Government's proposal not to treat carriers as posted workers. This was adopted by the Committee on European Union Affairs on 3 June 2016. "The Republic of Slovenia considers that international road transport should be excluded from the scope of the Directive. The Republic of Slovenia therefore expects to delete the treatment of the international road transport sector (because of the specific nature of the work in international road transport) in connection with the 10th recital of the Directive, and expects the integrated treatment of this segment within the framework of international road transport regulations." This Directive is currently under revision. Slovenia has given its position and I believe it will be taken into account, but it is currently under review. At the moment, Slovenia can do absolutely nothing in this area. It is necessary to wait until the end of this audit. Now I would like to respond to what my colleague Horvat said. He said: "The government should be careful whether the new Austrian legislation regulating the market for services is entirely in line with the European acquis." The government has been attentive and has found that it is in line with the European acquis. That's what the board said. I don't know why you're still saying something that we already found on the board that he doesn't. You also said that on the committee, the coalition eliminated the recommendations. Now let's do it in a row. The first recommendation, which was made by the Legal and Legislative Service, states that, since it is not explained which measures the applicant has in mind, the PSC points out that this issue should be clarified in the procedure for the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation, or that the first point should be drawn up in such a way as to exclude the possibility of interference in the competence of the Union in this area by means of a more concrete proposal for action for the work of the Government. That's what ZPS said. However, representatives of the ministries said that the Government had already carried out a number of activities related to the resolution of this problem, and they also gave very specific information on what they had done in this regard. This recommendation is therefore no longer necessary. Second recommendation. We have not destroyed it, but we have even completed it, we have even extended it, we have committed the Government even more to certain action. We have expanded the range of activities proposed to the Government, not only in a formal relationship with the European Commission, but at a bilateral level, is said to be the neighbour of Austria. That's why it's very difficult to say that we destroyed it. For the third point, the Legislative and Legal Service expressed the same opinion that I will not read now. A situation similar to the first point. I have already said that the National Assembly on this point has already adopted its position on the proposal of the Government that this has already been forwarded and that it is awaiting a solution to the revision of this Directive. As for the amendment of the SDS Group, I must say that, like your position today, it is completely constructive and I can only agree with it. I think it pursues good intentions and we will also support it in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Replica, mag. Marco Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u66	Thank you. Mrs Slug, I understand that SMC is organised bureaucracy if we look at the political aspects, which is really an individual customer, but let me ask you once nicely to step into one of these companies that has these problems right now. Sit next to the director or principal and listen to the problems they have in practice. Then, believe me, you won't be discussing in this way anymore, because once you see the problems these people face, then you'd probably turn the board around. If we were to listen carefully, we would also know that I did not express any strong enthusiasm for the lawsuit, but I said that this lawsuit is untrustworthy to you, your government, because obviously it did not do what it should have done because it did not do it in time and people are therefore in distress. To be rude and unfair, it was known in advance, it was written about, it was talked about in our media, so don't say it wasn't known about it. Your government itself is lying to you that it was not known that this was carried out in such a way, because some of the protests were only before it actually started, but they were weak, they went to some country's chamber of commerce and so on, which of course did not lie to anyone. As a result, those whom you should protect in time have organized themselves and gone to these charges. Why didn't you do all this in time? Why did you not ensure that, in accordance with the principles of free movement of people, services and capital, the same criteria for our entrepreneurs as those applicable to Austria would prevail? That's all this is about. Not to say that this is not the job of Commissioners in the European Union. This is precisely the task of the European Commissioners in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a matter of ensuring the fundamental rules on which the European Union is founded. If they don't, they're either greedy or incompetent. In any case, we should leave where they perform their duties.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u67	Would we have procedurally? He's got an advantage in the process. Gradually, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u68	Thank you very much, President. I ask you kindly to warn my fellow Member that he is not in government jurisdiction to respond to rumors with dispatches and protest letters. I'm asking nicely because he obviously doesn't understand. We have said things on the committee, we have also said why we support this debate, but the government, as such, cannot react to rumors with some protests. It would be nice if my friend knew. / advertising from the hall/
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u69	I will first find that this was not procedural, but it was an attempt to replace the debate. If you want to warn me, it's already been answered, so you don't need procedural. You still want the procedure? Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u70	Thank you. It is a matter of dealing with the subject, ladies and gentlemen. As President, I ask you to explain to Mrs Janji Slug, and perhaps the entire coalition, that the legislation adopted by the neighbouring country and the official statements made at the time of the adoption of this legislation by the officials of this country are by no means rumours, but that it is precisely what Slovenian diplomacy, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should respond to in due time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u71	The procedure shall not apply to the substantive debate. Please, let's really stop this. It's the same for you. I knew exactly what you were going to do, so I warned you earlier. Really, it doesn't make sense. Mr Joseph Horvat, representative of the proposaler, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I read what the Legal and Legal Service said, and colleague Janja Sluga, you are an important member of SMC, not ZPS. If you are disturbed by my verbal relationship that the coalition has broken the recommendations, I am correcting that the coalition has overtaken our recommendations. Now you must consider when the Government has begun to monitor the implementation of the legislation. This is what you and the Government will mention, because we have heard that Slovenian diplomacy has already warned one party and the other at the stage of the adoption of this legislation. You're saying everything's legal. For God's sake, what was this important barrister's house doing? But now her complaint to the European Commission on behalf of 130 companies is wrong? There's something I need to read to you. At the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, they say they requested a reaction from the Ministry of Economic and Foreign Affairs. Until Slovenia's conduct, it is critical that Maria Škof, from the previously mentioned lawyer's house, has a large Slovenian heart, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should have a larger Slovenian heart. Mrs. Marija Škof says: "In Slovenia authorities only watch if the law is written against all, including Austrian companies. At the same time, they do not see that, although it is written non-discriminatory, it is discriminatory because of the way in which it is implemented." There's a problem. True, you are right that implementation has begun 1. 1. 2017. Lawyer Marija Škof also says: "Let me remind you that under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, each, including indirect discrimination, is a violation of the European Treaty." That is why, colleagues and colleagues, today we have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. This law firm – I don't know if anyone else – started seminars as soon as last year, immediately after the adoption of this Austrian legislation, and trained Slovenian companies. I know about at least three events in the northeastern part of Slovenia – Maribor, Murska Sobota, Rakičan. Why right there? Because that's where a lot of companies go to deliver services to Austria. Why from there? Since there is little purchasing power and they are looking for space under the sun, read: space on the single European market. I ask who else has trained Slovenian entrepreneurs on the basis of the new Austrian legislation besides this lawyer's house. I don't know anyone else. Moreover, according to my information, they only received paid travel expenses. This is the first thing they did with a great Slovenian heart, pro bono. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u73	Replica, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u74	Thank you, Comrade Horvath. I understand you've already answered yourself because you asked what this lawyer's house was doing. This House of Lawyers said that the law itself complies with EU rules, in line with European legislation, but that practice and implementation are what is problematic. Complaints forming them consist of practice, implementation of this law, not just of text. You said that yourself when you read this letter. As far as the conclusions proposed on the committee are concerned, once again, the coalition did not destroy anything and the coalition did not hit anything. On the contrary, we have extended the proposed amendment and we also support today's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u75	A representative of the proposer, Mr Franz Breznik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Thank you. I'll talk to you real quick, and then I'll get back to you. Fellow Servant, I'm glad we're finally getting along, but once again, listen well to the statement read by my colleague Horvath. He read or paraphrased Mrs. Maria Škof. Once again: "In Slovenia authorities only watch if the law is written against all, including Austrian companies." Look. "At the same time, they do not see that, although it is written non-discriminatory, it is discriminatory because of the way in which it is implemented." They saw the tree, but they didn't see the forest. That's what my friend Horvath wanted to tell you. He wanted to say that they didn't see it at all. I can tell you that earlier, while Secretary of State Pogačar spoke, I was called from the Chamber of Commerce to say that when they were in his office in January, he said he didn't even know what was going on. You didn't even know. That's what the Chamber of Commerce told me. I got a call a few minutes ago. You said you were going to answer some questions, but until today, they haven't received any answers. What's important is that someone doesn't see it and that this bar said that the government then joined them. But Mrs Maria Škof, a respected colleague, already stated in Finance on 4 March 2015 at 13.33 p.m. that Austria is protecting domestic companies from foreign competition. It's been going on for two years. This is not only the case after the amendment of the legislation of 1. 1. 2017. Legislation is implemented in a perfidious manner for two years. It's been going on for two years. The law that came into force last fall only accelerated it, even more rigorously went into matters, increased penalties. But problems have been going on for two years. I have to discuss this. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Replica, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u78	Thank you. Comrade Breznik, I don't know if you've heard or not that Slovenia has exactly that kind of legislation. That's right. Well? Let me read to you what the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Mr Robert Sever, said on the committee. "First of all, I would like to thank, in essence, all the representatives of the Ministry who have listened to our initiative and have gone into various implementations, as previously explained." He has been stressing the Ministry's support, and the Ministry has always highlighted all the ways in which it works, both with this lawyer's office – not the chamber, the office – as at bilateral level with the state of Austria and so on. Minister Restoration is also working to meet with a colleague from Austria at a meeting to personally negotiate these things, and so on, that I will not now repeat everything I have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u79	A representative of the proposer, Mr Franz Breznik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u80	Continuation. We have the same, similar legislation. Today we are talking about implementation, implementation of this legislation, interpretation and guidance to inspection bodies. Representatives of the authorities can tell how many inspections were initiated against foreign carriers in Slovenia. Do we have that information? We have data for Austria – 39% of all penalties or fines handed down have been made at the expense of Slovenian carriers. 39%. The others are Hungarians, I think at 21%. The Slovenian carrier with whom I spoke said that when there was literally a raid in Luka Koper, we were under a glimpse and the Austrians were laughing at us. I'm also talking about the lack of inspectors. Whatever I'm talking about right now, there's not enough time. I'm talking about this problem that's about to come. Here is the issue of implementation, implementation and the way they do it. I believe that the government has been pursuing the goal for a time, that it is difficult to prove this discriminating. But it's indirect discrimination. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert and Dr. Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected! New Act on the Prevention of Social and Wage Dumping, which was adopted in Austria and entered into force 1. 1. 2017, means preventing unfair competition and social dumping. It also means increasing control over posted workers. The amendments represent the biggest problem for carriers which should not be treated in the same way as posted workers, due to the objective circumstances in which they perform their work. Most of the comparisons are in transport companies and other economic activities, such as construction activities, and most of the controls are in the field of Austrian and Austrian Koroška, which is in the border area bordering Slovenia, indicating that Austria has taken measures against competition represented by posted workers and also our carriers operating in the Republic of Austria. The Chamber of Commerce and Economics warns the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Economy and Technology, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and demands that the Government be actively involved in the resolution of the situation immediately. Of course, both Chambers understand that the Republic of Austria has the right to the protection of the domestic market and, of course, may require undertakings working in their territory to respect the legislation of the Republic of Austria. However, the behaviour of the Republic of Austria in a way that restricts work and imposes administrative procedures with disproportionate penalties poses incomprehensible bureaucratic obstacles for our businesses and entrepreneurs. It should also be noted that red tape, payment sheets and other documents are also imposed on bureaucrat entrepreneurs by imposing mandatory translations of contracts, payment sheets and other documents into the German language. This, of course, means a certain delay in carrying out the business and, of course, financial costs. The Ministry of Economy notes that, due to difficulties in providing services to our companies in Austria, more and more businesses and entrepreneurs are turning to them. The problems of our businesses operating in Austria are therefore known to our Government. I therefore expect the Government to implement all the measures, including the case before the European Court of Justice, if, of course, the other measures taken do not fail. To ensure that Slovenian companies are also subject to free movement of goods and services, which provides us and our companies with membership in the European Union. It is about ensuring equal rights for everyone throughout the European Union. I would also like to point out that everything needs to be done, so that all measures are taken to ensure that workers who are posted to work in EU Member States are provided with minimum working and employment conditions that are regulated in the rules of the countries where they work. It is therefore necessary to prevent any exploitation of posted workers, and it must be acknowledged that exploitation has also taken place by some Slovenian companies. To conclude, because I still have a minute left. I will support the updated recommendations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the issue of posted workers and motorists in the performance of their work in the Republic of Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u83	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the word, to prepare Dr Milan Brglez and Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. There was a dialogue earlier, whether we as a country were timely enough to react when it came to protecting our workers, our entrepreneurs and our businesses, in particular in the Republic of Austria. It was even said that we did well to send different notes to monitor the changes in legislation in neighbouring Austria, but now it is up to us to wait. It's kind of a message from the biggest coalition party. Now we'll wait. What are we waiting for? To shut down those other companies that live? Will these craftsmen and entrepreneurs pay their workers by waiting? Just look where you brought this country. Once Slovenia led the European Union, we were at the very top. Many have congratulated us for this success. We were an example to others. Today, Slovenia is so small – I am not speaking geographically, but I am talking about protecting our interests and also about protecting our citizens – that there has never been such a thing. We're losing it all over the line. Let me remind you of the arbitration agreement - a smile for everyone. Teran – a lost story. Minister of the Jews can still try to get out of this, the story is closed, lost. Today, there are workers in front of us who are bending their hands in their neighboring country. Of course we can ask ourselves why. Finally, Slovenia behaves very strangely when making some statements. I just heard yesterday that our representative of the Ministry of the Interior says that there are some ten illegal crossings, a representative of the Austrian Ministry immediately responds and says that it is not true that we have mass crossings of borders and on the Balkan path. We've literally become unreal. Unlike my colleague Janja Slug, I would even expect the Commissioner to be here today. It's not about being privileged. But it's about protecting our interests. We are also citizens of the European Union. Therefore, her role here should not be smaller and it would be appropriate for the matter to be heard and listened. One more thing, when you were "bobbling" about when the darkness was open and how long it took. I don't know how many of you have even opened a fat ledger of the requirement of Slovenian crafts and entrepreneurship. It's been almost a year since she left. It also made it clear from page 80 what problems they have with cross-border services. They're exposing this problem and something else. Although we are talking about Austria's neighbour today, does anyone even know in this National Assembly that our entrepreneurs working in neighbouring Italy have to take the re-examinations they are doing in the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to the first aid course? They do it in Slovenia, the case is verified, Italy does not respect it and they must do it again. There are many administrative problems that our entrepreneurs experience when they want to work with their neighbors. Today, you say that we were in time, that we reacted in December, that we sent in January. You've had your problem printed for a year without a solution. Not only are you without solutions, but the problems are only getting worse. I don't know if it's really the right way to do anything that Slovenia can do to just wait. Under this government, I suppose I am. But I do want a little more pro-activity. In this book you have almost a hundred pages of all the problems that craftsmen face in one way or another. Do you ever really listen to them? Otherwise, today is not the subject of this debate, but I will try next time with a question from the Member States because I am interested in how many solutions from this booklet this government has proposed so far. I'm afraid very little. But to return to this darkness. Ms Violeta Bulc, Commissioner from Slovenia, claimed that transport was exempt from the system of posted workers. Today we find that this is not a problem. Yeah, it's a problem. I don't know, Madam Member, it's not funny to me. I look at workers who today pay huge penalties that say they will have to limit their production or work not only but even abandon it. I think we should be a little more happy and satisfied and encourage these things when our companies have the opportunity to participate elsewhere. In this Chamber you also have the above mentioned, if the neighbours are already putting so much pressure on various inspection services, what is the role of Slovenia when it comes to the work of some workers from third countries. How are we doing in this regard? Before that, my colleague Beznik made a fine point. Can you give us a number when it comes to inspection? I've never heard of her before. Does it mean that we are working in this area, and that will enable our entrepreneurs to have a job, an opportunity? Finally, we're talking about competition. There are many problems that are also raised in these recommendations or in the request for a meeting. I won't go into the details, but if everything's so nice and right, then I don't know why some of you are bragging about today's debate. I hope we didn't just talk about talking, but that things would move. I would really expect a slightly clearer response from the Commissioner and, above all, help in this situation. This is a problem that has arisen between the two countries, and Slovenia is involved. It is no big deal if the lady from Slovenia comes, but she is the Commissioner for Transport. It would be difficult to say that if the Commissioner were for something completely different, we would not expose the things they offered and so on. But we don't have that. Mrs Violete Bulc is not here today either, although I know she comes to Slovenia quite often, to visit various things. She's not here today. This is the point of the agenda, of course. Mr. Zajc, just calm down. Just calm down, it'll be fine. In short, I strongly advise you as the Government take essential steps faster. The law is in force, a law that allows — obviously, we see today — such sanctions as they have designed and implemented. You said you couldn't at the time of the adoption of the law because you didn't know if this was going to happen. I don't know, maybe other countries are much more serious and accept what they're doing. Slovenia is probably of the opinion that some other country is accepting something just to accept it, but it is not being implemented. That's not Slovenia, that's where the legislation is respected. We might also know this at the time of the drafting of this legislation. Now it's basically about ringing the bell. I am really grateful – even for those colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party who have prepared this request and recommendations directly – that we have opened it up and perhaps in this way also helped to make this bike turn a little differently. For listening to the Prime Minister of the Government, how Slovenia got out of the crisis and how pleased it is to be a politician, is not enough. What crisis have we come out of? I'm serious. Even with what bread gives us, all of us, these are companies, the most we build on medium and small businesses, we cannot protect our people. At the end of the story, all we can do is ask ourselves what's left. Bore, they're fighting a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja the Servant, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u86	I just want to respond. It is true that there have not been a large number of debaters from our Group today, but I think that Mrs Bah Žibert's message, both one and the other debates, has completely misunderstood. Not mine or not from a colleague. It was clear we weren't waiting. I didn't say that, not me, not my colleague Jasna. We have even said that this debate is welcome, that it is a sign that Slovenia is serious, including that it is discussed by the National Assembly. We have also highlighted all the activities that the representatives of individual ministries have presented so far. But it is true that I said that we are waiting for one thing, and this is in the revision of the European Directive, where the process is to be completed. But in general, the SMC message is absolutely not that we are waiting, but we have said what has already been done and, of course, we also support that we will be in this spirit – perhaps a little bit of an increase in all things, absolutely necessary – we will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Procedurally. I hope there's no abuse. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your concern. I hope you will also devote it to your own meeting management. We have quite a few problems with your leadership. I'm absolutely not going to use the procedure for what it isn't. But please warn my fellow Servant that he has not left me in my right mind, that I know exactly what I am saying and that it is difficult for someone to tell me what I am thinking. The fact is, there was talk of waiting, and I was talking about being proactive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez, please, you have the floor. Dr László Göncz and Mrs Susana Lep Šimenko are next.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I would like to start my own debate with a broader context. The debate is taking place at the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the Maastricht Treaty and the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, i.e. the foundations to which we should actually return now that we are facing the problems we have. It's not like we're going past them or the opposite. In any case, the European Union's project brings together two inseparable objectives, at least that is how I see them, peace and social well-being. Inside this are four freedoms that have been here since the 1957 Roman Treaties — the free movement of goods, persons, capital, and services. These four freedoms must be inseparable. Countries cannot choose which they will respect, which they will not respect. This is not the case and, of course, it is the European legal order that ensures that this is the case. A Europe without borders that we all stand for can not only benefit individual markets, individual businesses and trade chains, but must, above all, benefit citizens. That's how it's supposed to be. Of course, the second question is whether this matter is actually being carried out through the legal order. The fact is that the common market was built much faster than the unification or harmonisation of social rights. This is where this discreet woman came from. Among other things, this gap has created unfair competition, which usually goes primarily to the detriment of workers who suffer from lower social standards and measures, which we consider to be social dumping. We are therefore talking about social dumping and we are in a situation where we are responding to social dumping by social dumping. That's what the Republic of Austria does, it doesn't do anything else. That's absolutely unacceptable. However, it should be borne in mind that the powers here are shared. Both the Member State and the European Union itself are competent, making the matter quite complex and it is very difficult to address it in the right way. Thus, individual Member States, both the Republic of Austria and our country, have adopted domestic legislation, various measures in the field of the travel of workers or cross-border management of services, including deterrence and criminal measures. However, as a result of the last resolution adopted in the European Parliament on 14 September 2016, measures against social dumping must not run counter to the free movement of workers. So these two things are not at all. The fact is, there is a need to ensure that this does not happen. This cannot happen only if such measures are proportionate and non-discriminatory. The main measure, or key, is to ensure the protection of the rights of people who are victims of different social rights and obligations of countries — namely the European Parliament. We can say, non-binding in itself, but still that guide, which I think must be the guide and the right guide for the action of this country. In my opinion, it is unacceptable to address the issue of insufficient social harmonisation or the prevention of social dumping in a way which, as I said before, represents social dumping itself. It is also unacceptable to extend or reintroduce safeguard measures for the economy, for example announced by Austrian Chancellor Kern, for sectors where the so-called 'input, poor and new members' are mainly employed. The seven-year transitional period for free movement of work was completed in 2011 and is not allowed in a new way, in a different way to introduce these same things. Certainly, the Republic of Slovenia does not appear to be among the new but even less poor and eastern members, but it should be and is an equivalent and responsible member of the European Union, which has already presided over the Council of the European Union. Now it is a reminder of what was previously required of Commissioner Bulcheva. The responsibilities of the Commissioners and the action of the national states – I ask that these are two different matters. Even if we were to act at any time at the invitation of national states, it is the stupidest thing we could do. However, at the invitation of the parliaments of the Member States, it is not what is competent. However, it is the Commissioners' responsibility to ensure respect for the rule of law of the European Union, and this is the basis on which it is actually possible to rely. I therefore believe that, in addition to the measures which the Government has yet to implement and which it has announced as possible and extreme measures, among them, I would never exclude an action against Austria before the Court of Justice of the European Union, if the situation of other measures does not improve in due course, I should appeal and also appeal to the representatives of the Government that, in their contacts with the Republic of Austria, the other Member States and the European Commission, they expose the inadmissibility of discriminatory treatment of individual members and the invention and introduction of temporary protectionist measures. Protectionism, however, is the basic thing that leads to the breakdown, to the breakdown of the system, to the collapse of the European Union, which certainly cannot be in our interest and we must do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen. Because there's no legal basis for that. But it really needs to be deepened. I know that it is more difficult to prove how discrimination is discriminated against and how discriminatory treatment takes place at the level of implementation of measures, not at the level of legislation itself. One and the other are forbidden. It is prohibited to adopt such legislation as to have legislation leading to such an effect. And such an effect can be proved. It will be necessary to gather materials and likely to go alone or with others before the Court of Justice of the European Union unless the European institutions do what they have to do in accordance with the legal order of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! To begin with, it is very important for today's session that our message be clear and united. From most of the debaters, I have heard that this unity is likely to be achieved and this is very important. Only in this way can we contribute at least a small amount to the interests of our carriers, our craftsmen, and those from the Republic of Slovenia who also work in Austria. I am pleased, however, that Mr Brglez has also highlighted this issue from this broader perspective. I, too, wanted to point out in particular that in these measures, or in the implementation of the law in the form that this has just begun to take place, there is an increasingly less united Europe. Unfortunately, we have to find out, even though I believe that we all appreciate Austria here together. Indeed, in some areas it has achieved and is still achieving an exemplary state, both in terms of the economy and in a political sense. However, this case is in no way helpful. Austria is not the only one, we have more of these cases. I have written down that unfortunately there are more and more cases when some act Brexit. I am putting this word into quotations, but I would like to point out in particular that when the European legislation of the Directives, declarations and so on feeds us, then we give it all the attention, when our local, partial interests are different, and then we want to forget that we are in this room or at least we should be the same. Our duty today and here in this hall is undoubtedly to uphold this unity. Therefore, although this is the only recommendation left, I believe that this must be supported. So I'll back it up. Finally, let me stress one more wish that, despite the problems that we have today in Europe, we can maintain all the values that we have achieved together. Partial discussions with Austria in the field of bilateral – I hope they will be successful on this issue. I agree with the government representatives that we have to look for consensus solutions, but there is no way that this can go on indefinitely, and there is no way that our economy can wait to be poor or even put into an impossible situation. Unless otherwise indicated, there is no doubt that it is also necessary to visit, as soon as possible, those international legal means which have already been mentioned or to approach the case before the European Court of Justice. We hope that this will not be necessary, but our message must therefore be clear that we are aware of this problem and that we are not going to take any steps back here, because in this case our workers, our carriers, our craftsmen and possibly some other sphere will suffer in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u93	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor, and then representatives of the Government and proposers should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the government, welcome again! I must say that after this debate I am somewhat disappointed that I have not heard any more thoughts from the coalition Members, but I am glad that we are generally united and that we want the same thing in general. That was precisely the purpose of this extraordinary session. Of course, this reference would not have been made if we had not somehow heard the cries of our economy if I could express myself in this way. As has already been said, the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce wrote to the representatives of the Government and we were in some way aware of this, even in the opposition, we were obliged to respond, and we also did so by citing this extraordinary meeting. It is true that these recommendations on the parental committee have somehow changed. I am pleased that you will support today's amendment, because we are still assessing that there is some progress in what we have adopted on the Labour Committee. Of course, it is extremely important that we be aware of the seriousness of this situation. This tightening of legislation has led to great overtures for many people. We know that we have about 18,000 carriers involved in transport in one way or another, but this is not just about carriers, it is also about all the others who provide services in neighbouring Austria. Yes, we have similar legislation or similar requirements regarding translations. Not so many of these are going to compare, because I would still hope to claim that they require a little more in Austria. However, if we say that we are here somewhere, what is different is the amount of punishment and control they exercise. That's very different. I believe that the representatives of the Government are aware of this and in some way I hope to say that in the future, too, something will be done in this area, that we will, after all, be more protective of our economy, that those who work here, to those who will come, will be from foreign countries and will work in Slovenia. Because even if there are rules that are not implemented or supervised enough, then it is difficult to talk about some equivalence in this single European market. Of course, what we have heard from representatives is of concern that these controls in Austria are mainly carried out in Austria and Austria. Of course, it is right that we are also connecting here with other countries, such as the Visegrad Group, but whatever is more than obvious that the country that is now most affected here is Slovenia, at least if we look at the number of controls that are being carried out. It seems to me, however, that we must be the one to take the lead in doing so in particular. Austria, however, is an important partner for Slovenia. If we're looking at exports, imports or anything, it's been in third place for years. Of course, it must be in our interest to keep it that way in the future. We can certainly say that cooperation between countries has been good in the past. However, it is possible to detect individual shortcomings in this cooperation over the past few months, and then they also appear through such a case as is now a little bit more control right near the Slovenian border, and not least by closing this border between countries, which is of course not a 'non-Schengen' border. Much has been said about the European Commissioner, but she herself has declared that traffic is the backbone of the economy. In particular, she stood up for this area in the hearing itself and repeatedly pointed out that transport would be exempted here. The economists, of course, seized and believed this information received by the Commissioner. It is probably because of such statements that there is so much greater disappointment, even though we know what its powers are, we know what it can do and what it cannot do, what it can favor or what it cannot do. We understand that. But it's a whole area. All Member States have implemented this Directive. We have also heard from economists that it has been implemented in national legislation, which is slightly different, since Member States have this option. It is right, however, that in some ways – because we are proud to have a Commissioner – we take advantage of this opportunity to ensure some order in this area. He can raise a problem like we're here today. I believe that by discussing today in the National Assembly and by unitedly supporting these recommendations, we have given some important signal out. I believe that a number of us are being followed and that this is a positive signal. It's right that we did it. I still have to say my criticisms to the European Commissioner here because I really appreciate that she has not done enough here. Austria has somehow protected its market. We have heard that this control does not go as well as it should. It is only right that there is more to be done in this area. Of course, I think that everything really needs to be done to protect our economy. We have lost many young, educated, educated people who went to work in neighbouring Austria first, and this is especially true of those areas that are at the border with Austria. On the other hand, because of the high rates of income, many choose to move to Austria because it pays more. But the loss for Slovenia is enormous. We must not allow such things to cause our companies to start thinking or even moving their seats across the border to neighbouring Austria. Representatives of the government, I'm not going to argue now what someone did and what no one did. Today we have heard some dates that we have not heard on the parental committee, which I appreciate, because we have also received an answer to the questions raised at the time. I believe that each and every one of you knows what he's done enough, what he hasn't done enough, anyway. In the future, we must do everything we can to resolve this situation in the interests of the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian exporters operating on the market in Austria and that similar anomalies will no longer occur in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the general part of the debate in which representatives of the Government and representatives of the proposer are given the floor. Mr. Peter Pogacar, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u96	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me at the end of this debate to re-explain some of the answers to some of the questions that have been raised today. I'll point it out one more time. With regard to legislation and the protection of workers' rights, two elements are crucial. One is the legislation of a Member State and the other is the European acquis. The European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union shall assess the compliance of each Member State's legislation with the European legal order, which shall fill this content with its judgments, not with another Member State. The vehement assertion that the legislation of another Member State is contrary to EU rules is, of course, somewhat problematic. Let us not forget, measures and safeguards in European legislation are primarily intended in the Directives on posted workers for the protection of the rights of posted workers. Let us not forget, these are foreign workers who are doing some work in a foreign Member State. It is precisely to avoid, since, in the past, all since the establishment of the EU, such violations of workers' rights have occurred, the EU has jointly adopted certain directives relating to the protection of workers' rights. In this debate we must keep this in mind all the time – the protection of workers' rights is paramount. Next week in this National Assembly, you will be considering the law on the implementation of cross-border services, where we have tightened the conditions for the provision of services in harmony with European legislation. Today, several times in the debate, it has been stressed by different parties that the legislation of the Republic of Austria is not in itself likely to be disputed, but that the problem arose when the Republic of Austria started implementing this legislation. Today it has been said that the legislation has been in force for two years, we will say 18 months, since 2015. The Republic of Austria has been preparing one year for the start of the implementation of this legislation and has begun to implement it strictly at the end of last year. In implementing this legislation, it is estimated that our economy has begun to suffer disproportionate sanctions, uncertainty and unequal treatment. Is that right? Dear Beznik said today that Secretary of State Peter Pogačar has no idea. Luckily, I have correspondence. When we were informed at the Ministry – but we were informed and asked by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce to meet at the end of December – there was a meeting at my office on 4 January. On 11 January, we sent them full explanations on this legislation. If I read the e-mail: "We thank you for transmitting the answer related to the question raised at the meeting on 4. 1. 2017. But we have another additional question for our transport companies." We also answered that question within a few days. I therefore find it difficult to accept that there was no such cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Slovenia in this area. However, in the end, I must stress one more thing. The impression that the transport is not exempted. The revision of the Directive on posted workers is currently in the stage of reception and coordination between Member States. This means that this Directive has not yet been adopted, but when considering the position on the proposed amendments to this Directive, this State Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, has adopted a position that Slovenia is committed to exempting the transport sector from the scope of this Directive. The following points are worth stressing once again that there is no way that we can accept that the Government is inactive here. We cooperate with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, for they are the ones who have alerted us to the problems they have encountered. Today, the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Economy has already said, not only what the Government will do, but also what it has done with regard to what activities are taking place. In its opinion, the government has clearly drawn up the planned measures if this issue is further exacerbated. Of course, none of us, given our friendly relations with the Republic of Austria, wants to see the Republic of Slovenia cut down after that extreme measure, a potential lawsuit before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also made clear in the debate today what activities our diplomatic network is carrying out in this regard, but would not repeat them in order to avoid a prolonged debate here. However, it seems very important to me that this is a question where the various departments concerned – the Ministry of Labour on the protection of the rights of foreign workers, the Ministry of Economy on the competitiveness of our economy, that is, an important part of the economy that operates abroad, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the activities of our diplomatic network – are working together. I think we are also acting in line with the views of the National Assembly, for which I also thank the National Assembly in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank everyone for this debate. You can see how necessary this meeting of the National Assembly was. I am pleased that Mr László Göncz has pointed out the great danger. He was talking about the so-called Brexit behavior. Believe me, it's behavior like this, and it's going to be devastating for Europe. It generates Euroscepticism. I also support what Dr. Brglez said. I showed and warned myself about the 60th anniversary of the two Treaties of Rome. If it's any luck, we'll mark this 60-year-old in this room next month. And another symbolism. In the recommendation, which will certainly be adopted today, we ask the Government to report to the National Assembly within three months. Today is February 9th, and in three months it will be May 9th – Day of Europe. Very meaningful. Austria is our valued neighbor, truly valued. This debate today has helped to improve already good relations between countries. Although the legislation is in line with the European legal order, implementation is not said to be compatible. If implementation is discriminatory, it is also a violation of the European Treaties. This is what Grilc Vouk Škof's law firm said, important eminent lawyers, who I also thank from this city for taking an immediate and effective stand on the side of our Slovenian companies. When next month comes, I believe, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker in Ljubljana, this issue must be put on the table. But I'm worried about something, ladies and gentlemen. Given that this government and some other formerly failed to solve the income problems of daily and weekly migrants mainly from northeastern Slovenia, who are now mass-moving to Austria, it is also a solution to this legislation. What's that? To move our Slovenian companies to Austria, and there will no longer be posted workers. That's the problem. In a way, we could say she's a smart neighbor. But sometimes we don't give a fuck if we leave, either an entrepreneur or a university graduate engineer. I am also grateful for what was announced by the SMC to support the SMC Group's recommendations, which really only improves the recommendation. In fact, we are waiting for the latest date, which is May 9th, when the government will report on the effects of its own engagement on the issue that we have discussed today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Franz Breznik, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Before I begin, Secretary of State of Pogačar, as you know, I have not stated that you have no idea, but I was told by the Chamber of Commerce that they feel that you do not have all the information, at least at the beginning you did not have it, and that you do not know exactly what the problem is. This is not only observed at the Chamber of Commerce, and this has been observed at the Austrian law firm, which has filed more than 130 complaints against the European Commission. What did they find? I'm paraphrasing lawyer Škofovo again. In Slovenia, authorities only see that the law is written against all, including Austrian companies, while they do not see that although it is written non-discriminatory, it is discriminatory because of the way in which it is implemented. Once again, I repeat, this is a case of indirect discrimination. Indirect discrimination, respected colleagues and colleagues, is also a fundamental breach of the European Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Indirect discrimination – that is what we are talking about today and that is the essence of this violation. Now we're comparing two things. November 2009 – Transport Minister Patrik Vlačič, SD, Tajani, current President of the European Parliament, is the European Commissioner for Transport. We begin with the introduction of the vinjet system. Janša's government says we'll have six-year-olds and annual vignettes. The government is being replaced in 2009, Commissioner Tajani is protecting Italy's interests. He knows that he drives full of Italian carriers through Slovenia, natural persons and everyone else, and he presses on Patrick Vlačič. First time. What does he do as European Commissioner? It immediately blocks the European drawdown of €88 million for the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section. It's a warning. The immediate blockade of European funds. Patrick Puller of course squeezes his head down. Tajani even demanded and wanted to determine the price of guilt. He said we had to start a week's vignette. He even fixed the price in the first phase. 8 euro must be, 8 euro 60. We now have in this case, when we are talking about dumped legislation and indirect discrimination, in Brussels, the European Commissioner for Transport, who has the data. It says that traffic must be exempted from the story of so-called posted workers. What happened? She didn't do anything. We're talking about passivity, we're talking about living in a comfort zone. Life in the comfort zone is the first label of the government of Mir Cerar. Also, the law firm says that then only someone joined when they had been in office for two years. Two years ago, problems escalated. This is exactly two years as much time as Mr. Jew has had to protect the Slovenian Teran. Once the case escalated, unfortunately the train took off, it was over. Today we find that Slovenian companies are coming back to Slovenia. The inspection services in Austria are full of work, they explain the duality, which also leads to legal unpredictability, which may again be the cause. We have the Court of Justice of the European Union. We once had a state attorney, Dr. Verico Trstenjak, who is today one of the largest specialists in European civil law who can think of hundreds of judicatures. We have three options. One is an interpreter of European law, this is a court in Strasbourg. The second is the enforcement of the law, the finding of infringements against a Member State initiated by the European Commission, as you have rightly established. The third is the election of legal acts, the so-called determination of nullity. If a legal act of the European Union cannot be coordinated with a superior legal act, the Court shall establish nullity. We have three species. We're getting to the bottom of this. Everyone in Europe also defends their strategic interests. Our strategic interest at the arrival of the Fourth Industrial Revolution must also be transport, geostrategic position, logistics, Slovenian logistics, and Slovenian transport companies in this Slovenian-Logistic chain. Austria acts monopolistically in this case. In Central Europe, it builds businesses, that is to say, it expands its branches of its strong businesses across Europe, and it somehow destroys all smaller transport companies. Everything else is our construction profession and everyone else. So all those who, while living in the comfort zone of this government, have sought work abroad, work abroad, bring millions into the Slovenian state budget. The government, which has done little fighting in this case, is very reserved, but it is talking about economic growth, which is not dependent on them, but on people. That is why it is essential to reach a decision, respected members of the government, and to encourage you to step out of the comfort zone and to enter into the real problems that our people have in foreign markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. We are moving on to a debate on the point of the complementary proposal for a recommendation and the amendment tabled. My colleagues and colleagues, before we go to the debate on the amendment, I am simply warning you that there will be no break between the debate and the vote that we will gain a little time. I am putting to the debate the second point of the supplementary proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u102	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I will not fully support this amendment and recommendations. The same will be done by our Group of Members. It saddens me that we are the only parliamentary group in this National Assembly to do so. But I am sad for the following reason, because when I listen to this debate, I cannot believe the shortsightedness we face in this matter. We are not only talking here about the conditions under which our bus carriers will be driving in Austria, but we are talking about something much more thorough. Two years from now, there are European elections, and I believe that there will be a lot of debates and water at that time on what we are facing today, whether we will continue to agree to a full free market dictatorship in Europe and whether we will allow countries to protect at least some of the basic standards that apply to all of these countries equally, regardless of which countries the European Union comes from. If I illustrate. A few months ago, Bulgarian workers who worked there for the Bulgarian minimum wage were found in one of the coastal companies. In the United Left we made it clear that whoever works in Slovenia must be paid according to Slovenian standards, i.e. according to the Slovenian minimum wage, and must enjoy the exact same rights as Slovenian workers. This is the only way to prevent social dumping and to prevent people who come to us from working from countries with lower GDP and lower standards from reducing standards here too, so that in some way they will be unfair competition for workers in Slovenia protected by Slovenian legislation. Therefore, it is good for both migrant workers who come and cannot be exploited, as well as for Slovenian workers who are already here, to protect and set uniform standards. And this is what Austria is doing today with this proposal. By imposing on the Government, we are actually undermining not only Austrian standards, but the standards of all. If the European Commission considers that Austria should not do so, then it will not be up to Slovenia to do so and we will be further plunged into this battle to the bottom, which Europe is already implementing in one way or another. Thus, when the Visegra countries drop capital taxes, Slovenia says that we must also let them go, as all the capital will escape the country. When Bulgaria eliminates the minimum wage, we will hear here that we too need to consider the minimum wage if we want to be competitive, as Revoz will move his company or branch to Bulgaria and export jobs there. That is exactly how we support the European Union with these recommendations. That's why I'm saying I can't believe how shortsighted we are. I understand the right one way or another that this is your concept of Europe, but here I see Members closer to me. As far as the United Left is concerned, we will absolutely oppose this and stand up for uniform standards. Let's just say that for the end, because I have one minute left, I'll turn the picture around so that maybe you'll understand better. Let's just say that what Austria did would not have done to Austria, but would have done to Slovenia. In order to say that only carriers coming from Croatia can drive under Slovenian conditions to avoid dumping on the Slovenian market. Then Croatia would sue us or appeal to the European Commission and then the European Commission would say: Slovenians, you must not carry out this protectionism, this is against the principles of free movement of goods, people, capital, services and so on, which are in force in Europe. What would be the reflex in Slovenia? Once again, the evil European Commission, which needs to be resisted, would once again encourage the sentiment of just what you don't want, is that people would prefer to see Slovenia leave the European Union. Just what you're doing today, although Joseph Horvat talks a lot about how we're saving the European future with such a proposal, you're tearing it apart. Haven't you really learned anything from Trump's lesson? Trump didn't win because he promised a wall on the south border of the United States, it was just one of his anti-globalist measures. Trump won mainly because he promised people protectionism. If the Europeans have prevented any protection of standards in the name of free movement of capital, work, services and goods, thus preventing countries from becoming their own standards and for their people, we will soon get some more brexit in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the second point of the updated proposal for a recommendation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u104	Thank you. This amendment could only be the cleanest version of what I just said. You are ordering the Government to consult the Chamber of Commerce and Commerce on such matters. The government should therefore commit itself to becoming essentially a communication office for Slovenian capital. Here I ask why not trade unions, but why not those who want to raise standards. Why exclusively include a capital interest in what the Government is supposed to do? We can't support this in the United Left. I have described the reasons before and will not repeat them, and I repeat that we will vote against this amendment and against this recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u105	Definition of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u106	For everyone who understands the economy, the most self-evident thing is that the Government and Parliament are setting up a framework that is of maximum benefit to entrepreneurship, in order to open up new productive jobs, which are the foundation of welfare, the only permanent basis for social security, and to cooperate constructively with all actors, in the first place with those who associate employers, is called the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who are also trying to make the most of their proposals. The debates going in the opposite direction, like the one we just heard, of course prove how right Nobel Prizewinner Friedrich Hayek was, who said, "If leftists understood the economy, they would never be left-handed." I will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Any other explanation for the voice? In your own name, Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u110	I might just say that you're trying to understand what Margaret Thatcher once said: "It's not about the economy, the economy is just a means. It is necessary to change the soul..."
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u112	You're just trying to change your soul, and I'm trying to change it again. Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] I'm giving up my explanation because obviously [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u113	No, please, Mr. Marjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u114	You can't have peace in this room. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u115	Good. Any other definition of voice? Mr. Franz Beznik in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u116	Of course, I will support what I have said several times today as a proposaler. And I have to admit that I may be slowly supporting the United Left, because I see that they are for Trump, for Austria and for Austrian capital. I must admit, I'm surprised by you. I think the finale of today's session, despite the seriousness of the situation, is that we have leftists who are for Trump and who are for Austrian capitalism. I have to admit, you're amazing. A man learns a lot here in Parliament. I'm gonna put this on my schedule and write down this big day. Next time I talk about Austria, I believe I'll have enough supporters. As I have already said today, I will vote in favour of the conclusions that we have drawn or have improved with the SMC and the other parties. I think we need to come together, which is the essence of today's meeting, and help both legal companies and carriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u118	Vice President. I think what my colleague is saying right now is not an explanation for the voice, but it's a simple controversy not to say anything else, with the United Left. I think we could tell him another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-09-SDZ7-Izredna-42.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to define their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude and vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I conclude the 1st item of the agenda and the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your work.
