ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 31st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ludmila Novak from 19:00 on, Janja Slug from 17:00 on, Erika Dekleva, Vesna Vervega from 14:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin from 3 p.m., Ivan Hršak from 2 p.m. on, Dr. Franc Trček, Luka Mesec from 18 till 20:00, Danilo Anton Ranc, Branko Zorman from 11 a.m., Benedict Kopmajer and Bojan Podkrodšek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the proposal for a decision on the amendments to the Decision on the internal organisation, the working places and the names in the services of the State assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the proposaler, Dr Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! You have before you a proposal to supplement the Decree on Internal Organisation, Jobs and Titles in the services of the National Assembly, which eliminates the legal void in relation to the determination of the business time of the services of the National Assembly, in particular by supplementing the said Decision, clearly regulates the determination of the business time of the national assembly service responsible for the work of materials and mail, thereby eliminating the legal void and ensuring the possibility of exercising certain rights of citizens and citizens by law. The adoption of the proposed act and its publication in the Official Journal will thus clearly set out and publicly publish the business time of the National Assembly, with a special arrangement for the services responsible for working with materials and mail, at work on the days off, i.e. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The need for the latter arises in particular from the provisions of the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, which allows the notification of the referendum invitation to tender to be submitted by the end of the relevant service of the National Assembly on the last day of the notification deadline. This deadline is also important in terms of the realization of rights in the field of human initiative. The expiry of the deadline for the submission of these applications in cases where it expires on a day off cannot be carried over on the first working day following its expiry and therefore business time for these cases must be set up separately. In accordance with the proposed act, the National Assembly or its Secretary-General will ensure the operation of the competent service for the acceptance of applications on the same day as the legal deadline for the submission of applications will expire on a different day’s leave from 8 a.m. to 16 p.m., which is also the business time of this service at the time of the workshops. The proposal will thus establish a means of exercising the rights of individuals by means of a public regulation, thereby ensuring their legal certainty. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the reasons set out, I propose that the proposal for a regulation supplementing the Decision on Internal Organisation, Jobs and Names in the services of the National Assembly be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 35th session of the 6th session. 6. 2017 as a parent working body, the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Decree on Internal Organisation, Jobs and Names in the Services of the National Assembly, which was adopted by the National Assembly of 18. 5. 2017 submitted by Mr Milan Brglez. The Commission took note of the material proposed by the Decree published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 18. 5. 2017, and by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 23. 5. 2017. As the applicant has just explained further, he also said at the meeting that by supplementing the Decision on internal organisation, working places and titles in the services of the National Assembly, the time of service of the National Assembly shall be determined at the time of work of the State Assembly. That question must be clearly regulated and published in the Official Journal in order to safeguard the interests of individuals. Thus, in cases where the deadline for the exercise of certain rights of individuals ends on a day off, the current regulatory system or legal vacuum in this area will be eliminated. Ms Natasa Goršič, Head of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that the service had no comments on the motion for a decree. Members and members of the Commission did not discuss the draft decision. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission voted on both articles of the draft decree and adopted them. As no amendments were adopted to the proposal for a decree on the working body, the Mandate-Voluntary Commission proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Decision on internal organisation, working places and titles be adopted in the services of the National Assembly in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made tomorrow, 22 June, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of breeding and education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. At its 31st urgent meeting, on 1 June 2017, the draft law considered the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. On the left, we object to a proposal that ex-legislates include students of the study programme Biopsychology among a number of professional workers who, under Article 67 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, can carry out the work of the advisory service in public schools and schools. The bill concerns the problems of students who have been misled by the University of Primorska. They enrolled in biopsychology studies with promises and ensured that they would be able to work in a wide range of professions, including in the public sector, which proved to be unrealistic. The Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology provided false information in the promotional material by 2014 that education allows for employment in regulated professions of the public sector. On the left, we are not categorically opposed to having biopsychologists involved in services of public interest in one way or another, but we must point out the traps of implementing the enforcement policy. The argument of blinded students and the possible suitability of this study programme cannot be sufficient reason for reckless intervention in legislation. In assessing the appropriateness of the individual education for the management of regulated professions, this is a professional assessment which neither we on the left nor the applicants are able to give or are not able to give. Finally, these professions are regulated for a reason because they are in the public interest because their quality is extremely important. And here uncritical, reckless deregulation can do very much damage and without a professional discussion today's proposal is precisely this, i.e. uncritical and reckless deregulation. In addition to the above, socialists are also detained until graduates of the study programme Biopsychology concerning ZOFVI are included because it contains very little theoretical and useful knowledge in the field of sociology and education, which would be the basis for advisory work. The professional examination of this problem does not eliminate it, as it is a matter of verifying the knowledge of the Law on General Administrative Procedure and Administrative Law, but not of teaching sociology, pedagogical or social work. On the left hand side, therefore, the inclusion of biopsychology graduates in the law is not opposed to a priori, but we want the regulation of this area to take place in a professional manner and to initiate as soon as possible procedures for assessing the appropriateness of education to carry out regulated professions. But to conclude, let me say this. This deceiving of biopsychology students is the classic butter of academic Mandarins, academic elites who do everything to concentrate power and all sorts of resources within college and within universities. And if we now reach into this law, we really don't do anything other than legalize and bless the malversion of these academic elites. Of course, such a thing is completely unheard of. These people, these structures, these classes need to be persecuted and monitored so that such frauds are no longer afforded, but not rewarded by ad hoc legislative changes. As far as students, defrauded students of biopsychology, are concerned, this is a problem that the University of Primorska has cooked, and this soup should now be eaten by the University of Primorska, without prejudice to legislation. Let the students be able to re-qualify, pre-qualify, to continue their studies free of charge, anything. In this context, the problem of biopsychology students can be solved without problems. If academic elites are not worthy to see and carry out themselves, they must be forced either by executive power or by a legislative body, that is, by this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u7	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have a lot to fix in our education system. In one of the areas, the unresolved problem of the possibility of including graduates and masters of the study programmes Biopsychology among the set of advisory workers under Article 67 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is a reminder of the novelty of our fellow Member, Andrej Couch. Biopsychology is a publicly valid educational direction taking place at a public institution, Faculty of Mathematics, Science, Information Technology in Cyprus, University of Primorska. It studies the intertwining of biological and psychological factors in human understanding. It is a highly interdisciplinary area, meaning that it treats the individual as a bio-psycho-social being. During the course of the study, students acquire adequate knowledge and competence to help work with children with special needs and gifted children. They can offer them scientific and advisory assistance. With their knowledge acquired during the study, they can diagnose learning problems and recognize the talent of the student. Many can contribute to the inclusion of immigrant students. They are recognized as quality personnel, because in this area, in working with vulnerable groups, there is still a need to have competences that touch psychological advice, a knowledge of mental illness as prevention in the field of mental health. On the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, the debate was very controversial, as Mrs Nikolina Jeretič, President of the Society of Biopsychologists, described very emotionally the plight of all these young people with degrees in biopsychology and future masters, which the system does not allow them to work in the public sector in education. The description of the tasks and works carried out by a diplomat and a Master of Biopsychology is identical to the description of the tasks and parts of the psychologists, and the applicant therefore notes that both professions can equally perform on the school labour market. In the education of biopsychologists, the country has invested considerable financial resources and they are now in the labour market and would like to contribute to society with their knowledge, with their skills. Members of New Slovenia want to help them do so, so we support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u9	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, welcome to my side, too! We have discussed the inclusion of students of the study programme Biopsychology in the recruitment of professional workers either in education or in social protection in the National Assembly on several occasions. I also, with a question from the Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, raised a dilemma on the appropriateness and competences of the Biopsychology study programme, which occurs when graduates enter the labour market. After all the discussions on this subject, it is the least we can do to consider whether graduates of this study programme can acquire additional competences and knowledge, or which are those competences and skills that graduates should still acquire to carry out their professional training in education, as I am convinced that biopsychologists for these professionals would be added value in terms of both professional and human resources reinforcements. It is therefore essential that the competent ministry initiates procedures to eliminate the issue of professional knowledge as soon as possible, facilitate the way to work in education and thus give them the opportunity to prove themselves through their work. Of course, such changes need to be introduced in a sound and comprehensive manner, but we need to start somewhere. Someone has to take the first step and why not make it right with the novelty of the law that we have on the table today. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, this is how we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of this year, Mr Andrej Čuš introduced a new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, aimed at including graduates and magistrates of the study programme Biopsychology among the set of advisory staff on education and education, as provided for in Article 67 of the current law. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we assess that the tasks of the advisory service are crucial for the successful operation and development of educational institutions, so it is not irrelevant who performs such work. It is precisely from these needs for high quality provision of the advisory service that the profession of counsellor in education and education is one of regulated professions. Let me stress that such problems that we face in the case of biopsychologists will no longer occur in the future, as this will no longer be possible at the legislative level. Last year, the adopted amendment to the Higher Education Act clearly states that the National Quality Agency in Higher Education must obtain the consent of the Ministry in which the profession will be acquired by a graduate in the accreditation of study programmes for regulated professions. The law has also increased the responsibility of higher education institutions for changes and greater flexibility in study programmes, strengthened the conditions for the establishment and functioning of higher education institutions, and introduced the employment criterion into one of the elements of the funding of study activities due to the lack of coherence and flexibility of higher education institutions and labour markets. Today, in fact, it is clear how much higher education needed these changes. The study programme Biopsychology is therefore a public study programme with a first and second degree accreditation. It's wrong to say that graduates of biopsychology are unemployable, because that's not true. They are also employed in the public sector, with the exception of certain professional areas where the state has decided to regulate them. The problem that we are facing today is the empty promise and deception of young students who believed that they would be able to work within regulated educational professions, of course, including social and health care, after their study. We wonder why NAKVIS failed to implement the extraordinary evaluation of the study programme. We are asking about the responsibility of the faculty that the programme has proposed and, last but not least, given the warnings of the profession that we have witnessed at the meeting of the parent working body, we are also asking about the appropriateness and adequacy of the competences of the biopsychologists they acquire in the course of their studies, which would enable them to carry out their work in the field of education and education. The problem therefore arose within the responsible higher education institutions, which must also address it properly and solve it. In fact, the solution is clear: to reshape the study programme in a way that will enable students to acquire sufficient competences so that they can also work in regulated professions. We have tried to be objective in our assessment of the support or non-support of the law in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. We have been paying attention to the opinions of the profession, because the solution to this problem, as we have already heard today, is primarily a professional issue. We have not supported the bill, but we appeal to all those responsible and, above all, competent to find a solution to the situation in question, especially for the benefit of students and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! At the May meeting of the National Assembly, we gave MEPs and members of Desus a green light to biopsychologists to enter the labour market in the field of social security programmes. However, we oppose this proposal to enable them to work as advisers in the field of education and education. Why? The Biopsychology study programme carried out by the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology of the University of Primorska is, on its own basis, a naturalist and a diplomat providing mainly competences in the field of biology and biochemistry. We trust the competent ministry that the reasons why we oppose or oppose the proposal of this law are justified so that biopsychologists do not have the appropriate knowledge to be counselors in education and education. Because we believe that this is a very complex professional question, so we listen to the expert who also gave her an opinion. While we agree in Desus that knowledge is crucial to a better future for individuals and peoples, we ask ourselves why we pay a lot of study programmes by public means, but at the same time we do not take care of the employment of young people with higher education, so that many of them are forced to go to work abroad. What helps young people to learn successfully, and then they cannot use this knowledge in their work, nor in society, nor in society, nor in their study? This is a major damage to both young graduates and the state. There is, therefore, much more to be done to solve these complex problems or to solve them together. As has already been said, in the Desus Group, we do not want to take responsibility, instead of others, for confirming the competences of such a profession, especially because it is a matter of working with our youngest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u15	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats Group, where we supported the proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We supported it in order to enable the integration of biopsychologists among the set of advisory workers involved in the work of public kindergartens and schools. In addition to psychologists, educators, social workers, social educators and defecators, biopsychologists would be included in the cycle. The principals of kindergartens and primary schools would have a wider range of people who could be appointed to the group of advisory workers according to the needs of the school. The fact is that we are living in a period where the increasingly difficult situation in the labour market is also faced with rapidly changing needs for diverse skills and skills and, therefore, educational institutions are also looking for appropriate answers to these challenges and, of course, all these programmes are accredited by the competent agency. In this case this has occurred, so the competent agency has accredited the Biopsychology route and it is therefore to be expected or logical to allow those who complete this study to also integrate into the labour market within public kindergartens and schools. This could certainly enable many who have gained adequate knowledge that these skills are also being applied in the field of kindergartens and primary schools in practice, especially because it has been observed in the recent period that, as a result of rapid changes, there is also an increasing need for more and more people to focus on staff working as advisers, as social educators within consultative workers in kindergartens, which means that more and more needs to be understood by broader developments or deeper developments in the individual if we want to respond adequately to his view of what is going on in society. In view of the fact that the law did not receive sufficient support on the parent body and the legislative process is completed, it will be necessary to seek new solutions in order to allow these students to be included in the cycle of employment within public schools and kindergartens, as something similar was also possible years ago in the case of those who graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy of Translation and although they also passed the pedagogical-Andragog exams, they were not able to teach English in primary school. In this case, a solution was sought in such a way that they could perform a master's degree in the classroom, with which they could participate in English teaching in elementary school as well. Maybe it's one of those cases that could lead to a solution for a biopsychologist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand draft of the Act on the Appendix to the Pension for Work and Exceptional Achievements in the Sport Area following the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 54 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u18	Dear President, Minister, colleague and colleague, hello! We have before us a proposal for a law on the addition of old age and invalidity pensions to work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport, not a completely new law, but an implementing act which will exercise the right of athletes and athletes who meet the criteria set out in this law to add to the pension. So far, this has been regulated by the Act on Exceptional Recognition and Retirement of Old Age Pensions for Persons with Special Credits, this was so-called ZIPO. In 2009, the Court of Auditors pointed out that the above-mentioned ZIPO did not contain criteria and criteria for the recognition and assessment of an exceptional pension, after a new pension allowance, and that the criteria were fully left to individual ministries. This has been resolved by internal acts, which are not generally applicable legal acts to which an individual could refer in the process, and therefore the old law did not sufficiently provide conditions for equal treatment of persons in the same or comparable situation. While many governments have already seen this problem in the past, different governments have also ordered different ministries to come up with suitable solutions, but the matter has never reached the government and then to be discussed in Parliament. This bill solves only sport, but not culture and science, which are also covered by the law itself on the granting of exceptional pensions. The reason is that, as first-signed, I did not want to interfere with areas that are not nearly as familiar to me as this area of sport, but I am pleased that this proposal has encouraged representatives of these areas to approach a solution as soon as possible as possible, such as the one before you. So who are the beneficiaries of the supplement? These are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who, with outstanding achievements in the field of sport, have made a lasting contribution to the development of society and the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, by holding Olympic, Paralympic medals, medals with the Olympics of the Deaf, Chess Olympics or medals from the World Championships, in the Olympic collective sports industries or the Olympic disciplines of individual sports industries in the membership competition, and athletes winners of the Bludk Award for Lifetime Work or the supreme international result. The allowance shall be calculated in the monthly amount of the difference between the retirement pension or invalidity pension received by the beneficiary and the amount of the retirement pension of the person assessed from the maximum pension base for 40 years of retirement. The additive shall be at least 70 % and not more than 100 % of the difference. More detailed criteria for the dosage and determination of the percentage shall be laid down by the Minister responsible for sport. The addition shall not be justified by those athletes or athletes who, despite the conditions of the winning medal or the Blood Prize, have been punished in their career by a domestic or international commission to combat doping with two or more years of banning. The bill was extremely widely supported by 54 Members and Members of Parliament in the National Assembly, and the proposal also received virtually unanimous support from the Education Committee. The proposal before you is also in line with all stakeholders and stakeholders, namely the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the ZPIZ and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. He was also supported by the State Council, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, a representative of disabled sports organisations and others. I would like to say that for a long time in the National Assembly, we have not considered a bill that would have been coordinated with all stakeholders for so long and so long, taking into account the majority of the comments and arguments of all interested parties, which would eventually lead to a solution that is more or less appropriate for all. On behalf of athletes and athletes, the beneficiaries of this law would finally be thanked to all those involved. These are co-signatures of the bill, namely, all SMC Members, except one, all SD Members, the whole unrelated parliamentary group, independent Member Andrej Chuš and 9 out of the 11 Members and Members of Desus, all the ministries mentioned, ZPIZ and, of course, the Legislative Legal Service. I must also not forget the professional service of the Desus Group and several other individuals and individuals in this Parliament, which I will not appoint, because they know this is intended for them. I think today is a beautiful day for sport; a sport that is still part of more nutritious activities in our country and so organisational, financial and legal. Well, the latter is certainly improving, as we recently received a new Sport Act almost 20 years later, today this proposal is before you, and I really hope that one day we will also talk about the fact that sport deserves its own ministry. However, if not the Ministry, at least the independent Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to be able to fight for its part of the budget cake, which at this time must be recognised, the force is modest and amounts to around EUR 15 million, which is only 0.9% of the money available at the annual level by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. But I'm going to finish here, because today is not the day and not the time to make out. You know, Slovenians, especially athletes, we don't gloat. We work or train, compete, and win. And so it is today, and so it will be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u19	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! At its 29th regular meeting on 1 June this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the draft law on the supplement to the pension for work and exceptional achievements in the field of sport submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Peter Wilfan. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service. Her representative felt that the proposed amendments to the Committee followed their comments to a large extent. He drew attention only to the equal treatment of persons in the same or comparable situation and to the criteria for determining additives for which it would be more appropriate to be regulated in law instead of in a sub-legislative act. The draft law was also supported by the State Council. Their representative highlighted, among other things, the evaluation of other sports workers. No amendments were tabled within the time limit, but on 1 June 2017 proposals for amendments to the Committee were submitted to the Committee by Mr Peter Wilfan. Following the introduction of the bill's proposal by the representative of the applicants, the Government's opinion was presented by the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. It considered that, for the purposes of today's time, the Act on Exceptional Recognition and Retirement of Old Age Pensions for Persons with Special Credits was obsolete, since most of the provisions are no longer applicable. For this reason, the Government supports the regulation of the area governed by the proposed law. The debate followed, in which most welcomed the adoption of the law. Some comments were only about the evaluation of the work of other sports workers, such as trainers and other experts, and about the recipients of the Bloud Prize, which also make an important contribution to the top results. The draft law was also welcomed by the representative of the Association for Sport of Disabled Persons of Slovenia, the Paralympic Committee, and the President of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, Association of Sports Unions. After discussion, the Committee adopted proposals for amendments to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u21	To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished assembly, distinguished listeners! As has already been presented, the Government supports the proposal tabled by the Members and the first-signed Member of Mr Wilfan in order to arrange for the additions to pensions for the exceptional achievements of individuals, an area which has not been regulated for a long time, especially in the field of sport. Today, only a few individuals who receive certain supplements for these achievements, but not systematically and legally, have not been adequately regulated. Therefore, not only did the Government welcome the proposed proposal but it also helped to co-form the articles, so that all the legal and other legislative domains that had to be improved in the first proposal are now taken into account, with a view to understanding and better applying the proposed law. Not only that, but also the sincere thanks of all the initiators, especially so that we will now in other areas, this is, science, education, culture, together with the commitment and initiative of the Government, to make similar proposals to regulate the award of extraordinary achievements by those individuals who not only contribute to the reputation of Slovenia, but also bear the meaning and value of Slovenia throughout the world. To this end, together with the Ministry of Culture, we will prepare a proposal in the fields of culture, education and science. That's it. I think that sport is something that Slovenians not only connects, but also gives incentives, motivation, especially the top achievements of all those exceptional individuals who have for many years, we can say for decades, strengthen the importance of Slovenia's brand in this particular area. That is why I think it is right to proceed with this law and the bill and to put it into effect as soon as possible. Not only is the Government adopting, of course, an appropriate commitment to budgetary co-financing of this area, but we all know, together as Slovenia, to reward extraordinary achievements – not only today, but also in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u24	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! On the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, we discussed the proposal for a law on supplementary pensions for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. The law was proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Peter Wilfan. The National Programme of Sport of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023 states: »Top sport represents one of the highest forms of human creativity in the field of sport. It also often refers to sports activities to demonstrate the upper limit of human psychophysical abilities. This emerging form of sport plays an important role in other aspects of sport, particularly for the inclusion of young people in sport. Supreme athletes are role models for young people, and their achievements often identify all members of the imaginary national community, the so-called national identification. Supreme sport is also an area in which the benefits of the country can be realized through achievements at international level, such as visibility...« One of these is the recently completed race in Slovenia, where more than 60 countries across the Eurosport were watching. I think this will also be of great importance for the development of tourism in Slovenia. Supreme athletes invest most of their time and energy in training and competitions, so they are often absent from the educational process at all levels of education, affecting the success of education. It is too often that high-level athletes face difficulties in building an out-of-school career at the end of their sports careers, as many do not have the necessary education and experience. It is therefore important that they acquire an education at a time when they are competitively engaged in sports. Educational institutions enable athletes to make adjustments that can facilitate education and help them achieve the desired vocational education despite their intense involvement in top sport. The acquired education enables athletes to work in public administration, for example in the police, during an active sports career. In Slovenia, the employment of top athletes appeared after independence. The first top athletes were employed in mid-1991. At the time, on the basis of the decision of the Government, 6 athletes were employed in the sports unit of the then Territorial Defence. According to the Slovenian Olympic Committee, we employed 115 top athletes in Slovenia in November 2016. The bill provides that the beneficiaries of the supplement are those athletes who have achieved excellent results in their careers. They are the bearers of the Olympic and Paralympic medals, medals with the Olympics of the Deaf, the Chess Olympics or medals of the World Cup in the Olympic collective sports, sports and Olympic sports disciplines, individual sports industries in the membership competition. I hope there will be a fire-fighting Olympics, because we also have fire-fighting Olympic champions. In addition, the winners of the Bloudk Prize for International Sport Achievement will also be entitled to the supplement. The pension allowance will, according to the proposal of the law, be given in the monthly amount of the difference between the retirement or invalidity pension received by the beneficiary and the amount of the old-age pension paid to women from the highest pension base for 40 years of retirement. The supplement will be at least 70 per cent and not more than 100 per cent of the difference. We have already stressed on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth that similar solutions would also be needed for the field of culture and science. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group we expect the Government to regulate this area. In view of the fact that sport is one of the factors in which we all recognize ourselves when it comes to excellence, it is right to respond as a country and give further encouragement to all who want to succeed in sport. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u25	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, welcome again! We have before us a proposal for a law whose adoption would allow athletes and athletes to grant the right to an allowance for pensions, as they have contributed significantly to the development of society and the reputation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia through their work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. We support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members and the Alliance, because there are few areas in which Slovenians are successful in taking us to the world summit – and according to sports achievements we are judging right there. But we are aware of what is behind these hard-earned achievements of top athletes, which we are so pleased to accompany and support ourselves? Let's try to identify with them. At a time when they could already properly acquire work experience, they participate in sport. In order to become the best in their discipline every day they do their best and when they succeed in becoming supreme when they receive the Olympic or other sports prize, Slovenia also benefits. Not only is Slovenia more recognizable around the world when our athletes win, we are generally more satisfied with the people of Slovenia. We become more optimistic, and we are more prepared for the challenges of everyday life. Sportsmen have nothing to do with these benefits, and the fact that they are engaged in sports is damaging to them in the long run. By the time they train, we could have gained work experience and built a business career. They can't do that. This is not generally the case until the end of their careers, when their peers can already hold leading positions and thus have better salaries and later on due to higher pensions. What about the most successful athletes? All too much is left to their own ingenuity, and this is simply not right. That is also why we have given our voice of support to this law without hesitation. However, the social security of athletes is not the only reason we support them. For we believe that the top athletes simply deserve such an addition. Thus, in their old age, they will still be happy to remember playing the Slovenian anthem at their celebration and be even prouder to perform for the Republic of Slovenia. Respect can only be one - way, but it is most fulfilling when friends appreciate each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u27	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u28	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Sport interferes with all social times of life and includes individuals in larger and wider social groups and different segments of the population. It is particularly important that the area of high-quality sport generates many positive social impacts as well as other forms of sports. Of course, achieving the highest sporting achievements is a major action for an individual, and due to national importance and social resilientness it is also important for the wider social community. Our country is also responsible for this. The fact is that the top sport in the Republic of Slovenia has an important tradition, and citizens and citizens are particularly appreciated by the top athletes and their top results. Sport has also advanced in our country over the past decades in terms of the quality of the sports results achieved in the international space. Last month's new Sports Act contains a series of systemic solutions to improve the position of top and other athletes in different periods of the sport's career, and the bill we are considering today particularly focuses on work and extraordinary achievements in the field of sport. The purpose of the bill, which was also supported by co-signature in the SMC Group, is to grant top athletes the right to an allowance for regular pensions, which, by working and exceptional achievements in the field of sport, will contribute permanently to the development of society and the reputation of our country. The law in force in this area is outdated and unusable, and on the basis of it, only 11 individuals were granted exceptional pensions in the field of sport. Let us stress that top athletes who bear Olympic or Paralympic medals, medals with the Olympics of the Deaf, the Chess Olympics, the World Cup medals in the Olympic collective or individual sports industries, and the Bludk Awards for the Best International Sports Achievement, and athletes who received the Bludk Award for their life's work in sport will be eligible for the addition to the old pension. Some pathways to high-quality sports achievement are contradictory and represent the site of top athletes, so they will not be justified by athletes who have achieved the highest results under the influence of illegal substances in sport. Our paralympics, who also achieve excellent sports results, are also treated equally by the bill, and it is right that they will be properly rewarded for their work and achievements. Supreme sport has many positive values on the individual and on the nation as a whole, so it is important that we as a country with special interest support our athletes in achieving the highest results – even in the way we do it today's bill. However, we must not fall asleep in this regard, so we also appeal to the other ministries in order to make appropriate changes in the other areas of outdated and unusable legislation from the 1990s. This is where we focus on the Ministry of Culture. All top artists, scientists, athletes or others deserve equal treatment. We need to make sure they're under the same roof. In the SMC Group, we will support the draft law on the supplement to the pension for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. We continue to look forward to excellent athletes and achievements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u29	The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! It's a good thing I'm not last in line for a position, because if I had to listen to all the opinions, I'd probably get sugar. So much praise at the expense of athletes, so much talk about how important their achievements, ladies and gentlemen are, let's look in the mirror and ask ourselves what we are as Members and Members and what this National Assembly is, what this government has actually done in recent years for athletes and to be able to achieve great results. Let's just look at the budget the Ministry of Education has allocated to sport. Or, if you want to be direct, let's look at the budget that the Ministry of Education allocates for facilities where they train, where they train, and not least where young people who are once top athletes are raised, that's for sports infrastructure. Three million euros, ladies and gentlemen, in a few years! Investments in sport have been completely shut down. Young people do not have suitable facilities to train so that they can improve their skills or directly so that they can develop their talents. The law proposed by fellow Member Peter Wilfan solves certain matters to a certain extent, as stated, is for those athletes who have received excellent results in recent years, especially in the Olympics. The law will have no direct financial implications now, because we know that they are not going straight to retirement, but we have two concerns in this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. One is one that has already been exposed; in short, we already have a law that regulates this area in some way and regulates it with culturers and others who achieve results for our country. If we exempt one from this law and regulate a new area, it would make sense for others to do so at the same time. The second question is how to finance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, at the same time as we are looking for such solutions, we should also look for possibilities for a new way of financing – let's say the question of sports buildings – but not that we are putting the whole burden exclusively on the state budget, because we know that citizens and citizens already have a kind of negative attitude towards extraordinary pensions. I don't have a problem if the fighting pensions are abolished, a lot of them don't get properly, and we could then spend that money on athletes, culturers and those who are trying to bring something to this country today. Despite the concerns we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the bill. We welcome certain solutions. But let me take this opportunity to say something. The more money in the budget, the more money there will be for sports, for culture, for pensions, for these achievements. The money in the budget. However, the money in the budget can only be spent in such a way that money does not run out, that we should go to corruption to prevent theft. In particular, to prevent more than 100 million thefts and in this place, citizens and citizens, including athletes, today and tomorrow it is time to sign for the referendum, some signatures are physically missing. This will also make more money for you, for your pensions and for other social services. That's what we say. Today and tomorrow, let's sign for the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u31	What does this have to do with attitude? I mean, any abuse seems to come in handy. How? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, obviously we can read anything. There's no point in giving you a warning, but I'm pointing out that you're actually abusing it. Abuse is a feature of what is being done in this House. This was an abuse in essence of an explanation of the Group's position on the law on pensions for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, President. I'm asking you to explain to me what abuse has taken place. We are talking about a law that will have an impact on the state budget. We are talking about a law that will have an impact on the state budget in such a way that pensions will be financed from the state budget for athletes with the top achievements that we are talking about. We know that this National Assembly has passed a law on the second track, we know of the financial structure or, more to the point, we do not know. In short, we have had a number of experts in this House who said that the second track could be built up significantly cheaper to save at least half a billion euros. Saving half a billion euros means that half a billion euros is more for the addressees of this law. Sometimes there's a thing that has to be connected. So, tell me what the abuse is, if I say that if we have more money in the budget, we have more money for sport, if we want more money in the budget, we need to have more transparent projects, if we want more transparent projects, we need to avoid untransparent projects. However, the possibility of preventing one non-transparent project is that the law will fall at the referendum. But in order for the marriage to fall at the referendum, we need 40,000 certified signatures. So the whole circle closes and tell me what I've abused.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u33	I believe you know very well what abuse was, and that's that you're campaigning for a referendum at a point that's not meant to be. It's over. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u34	Dear President, colleague and colleague, once again a nice greeting! Of course, I'm going to stick to what we're talking about at this point. We often hear that Slovenians are separated, but the fact is that we are still united in the success of our sports heroes. In a way that brings together the sporting achievements of our ambassadors, we should unite in a variety of spheres of social life in our little country on the sunny side of the Alps. In our country, we have witnessed so many sports successes in the last quarter of the century that many of us have already lost track of memory. Even before our independence, our athletes have achieved jealous results, which also record the history of the Slovenian people. Hard work, persistence, decency and diligence are just some of the values that mark our all-round athletes, and these are the virtues that we admire and respect in the Desus Group. It is true that the signatories to the draft law of our parliamentary group are not 11, but we believe that this law can be one of the few that will receive majority support, if not unanimously. In the Desus Group, we especially take a positive view of this law because we have not forgotten our top athletes disabled. When I first summed up some of the values that a sportsman has to excel in order for between 7.5 billion people in the world to get the best title, we can only talk about these values in excess. What further convinced my colleagues in my group that they were already at the very beginning in favour of my idea of updating the already existing right of athletes to an exceptional pension, was that the criteria and criteria would be laid down in the law itself and further elaborated in a sub-legislative act. This is not the case so far in the current legislation. To conclude, let me just add that in the Desus Group we will generally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u35	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you for your words and once again a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we will support the draft law on the supplement to the pension for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport. This is because the Republic of Slovenia recognises the outstanding contribution of individuals in the fields of art, culture, sport, science and other activities even after an active career. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u37	A little peace, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u38	In accordance with the rules in force, both persons who have contributed significantly to the reputation and visibility of the State belong to an exceptional pension at the time of receipt of the pension. [[…]] Those who receive exceptional pensions could certainly be added to all these categories, but of course they allowed us to have a state of our own, which is, of course, for veteran wars for Slovenia and also veterans from the period of national liberation. However, the system of allocation of rights is based on the law since 1974, which was somewhat supplemented in 1990 and the Court of Auditors found in 2010 that the system is still somewhat misplaced, it noted that the conditions for equal treatment of applicants or beneficiaries are not guaranteed and that the procedural rules for proposing the granting of an exceptional pension are incomplete. This is why the Court of Auditors addressed a recommendation to the Government after the law was updated as soon as possible. Despite the various attempts made by governments under different leadership since 2004, we have not come up with more than draft regulatory changes. Therefore, the proposal for a law that we are considering today is actually the first step towards regulating these situations, which governs the state's attitude towards exceptional achievements in the field of sport as one of those topics or chapters that need to be regulated. And instead of an outstanding pension to date, top athletes will be entitled to an allowance for old age and invalid pension. The pension of a top athlete will consist of both the pension and the sum of the contributions to the pension allowance and the allowance. Social Democrats would, however, make it particularly important to make a contribution to this law also to the recognition of the inclusion of disabled athletes among the beneficiaries of the supplement. Their achievements also make an important contribution to the development of sport, as their achievements in the sport field are imbued with inspiring stories that testify to the fact that despite the obstacles it is possible to achieve excellent results. Thus, the proposal for a law is the first step towards regulating the situation in the area of recognition of exceptional achievements, in the field of sport this is the first step, but we agree, of course, with all those warnings, that the area of culture, art and science will need to be regulated in a comparable way in the future. Therefore, in relation to this, we expect both the Government and the competent ministries to develop appropriate criteria for granting an exceptional achievement allowance in all these areas as well. I hope that we will get these bill proposals as soon as possible and thus round up these efforts so that all those who have made an outstanding contribution to the recognition and development of the Republic of Slovenia are also recognised at a time when they are no longer active in their field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u39	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Miha Kordish is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the law on the addition of pensions for work and exceptional achievements in the field of sport, the only problem is the starting point of the law, because it is the granting of exceptional privileges based on past merit. Yes, this is a comparable arrangement as with other groups, for example, as with culturers, but this does not mean anything but that we need to broaden the basic issue. Whether these groups deserve special pension privileges is certainly questionable and can be debated for a long time. What is not questionable, however, is that everyone deserves a decent pension and social security at his age. We cannot therefore support the law on the left because it falls outside the framework of social justice and solidarity, which must be the basis of any pension system, but we will not oppose it, because it does not take anything away from anyone, but it will have no strong budgetary implications at the same time. Interestingly, however, the law on the addition to pensions is one of the few laws that came from the Desus Group. I mention this because it is supposed to be a client of pensioners who declares the well-being of pensioners as their goal, it is said, first and foremost, that the pension is as good as possible. Well, in the case of sportsmen bringing in pension supplements, this party apparently forgot about all the other pensioners. The law proposes an allowance based on the difference to the highest pension paid, which is now just below EUR 2 000 700, the average net pension is EUR 612. With this law, for example, the recipient of the Olympic Medal, which has 900 euros in pensions, would be paid each month if he received an allowance of up to 100 per cent per month, a thousand 800 euros per month. Do you know how many people in this country live with a pension of less than 400 euros? 28% of pensioners, one third of pensioners almost! Last year, out of 300,000 people were below the poverty risk threshold of 78,000 pensioners. Under the poverty threshold is almost 1 in 6 Slovenians over 65 years of age. Every fifth elder is socially excluded. And what Desus does after 15 years of being in the government – well, today he proposes a law that would give a sportsman a prize six times greater than what a poor pensioner gets from a pension. And how will you explain in Desus that some of the chosen ones who are better off because of the reputation they have rightly earned are given three extra monthly average pensions, despite the fact that the pensioners are the group that risks most poverty; that is your problem. Forward to the athletes. Do athletes want an extra candy for their pension or support during and after their careers? The answer to that is not too complicated. How many talented young athletes and athletes will not even get a chance to come to a level, even though they are capable of winning medals and medals because they will simply have to give up in their families because of the difficult social situation in their families? Let us not forget that the SMC, Desus and SD coalition voted last month on the Sports Act, which legitimizes brutal pretenses for athletes, as well as for professional athletes in sport. Why do budget allocations for sport in general decrease each year, especially for sports infrastructure? There is a lot of talk about sport for all or recreational sports, and damage is done. This is actually the situation in the area of pensions and sports. In this light, the privileges conferred by the law on the addition of pensions to work and exceptional achievements in the field of sport show, above all, how very political establishment is alienated from the reality experienced by working people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u41	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. A vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 22 in line with the meeting’s time frame. 6. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to five. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MAINTENANCE OF THE MAINTENANCE AT A DETERMINED STATE AND ON THE DEFINITIONS OF THE AGRICULTURAL COUNTRY IN THE context of a regular procedure The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u42	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Act establishing the floor property on the proposal of the acquirer and determining the property of the building, which we lovingly call the ZVETL, was adopted in 2008 with the aim of removing obstacles to the effective integration of the land book and the cadastral of buildings and the earth cadastre. The basic objective of this Act was to enable owners or high-level owners and acquirers of individual parts or buildings built before 1 January 2003 to achieve, as easily as possible, the most economical way to reconcile real estate records with the right, actual and correct legal situation. We are all aware of what quality real estate records mean, especially the complete and up-to-date land register is essential for the legal security of individuals in real estate transport, while at the same time quality real estate records are also in the public interest, as they are essential for the performance of public real estate tasks. They are important for the individual, they are important for the business environment, they are important for the functioning of local communities and, of course, they are important for good-neighbourly relations. Within almost ten years of the law that is supposed to replace the law that we bring before you, good practices and bad practices have developed. This is the law that is before you. The main procedural solutions and tasks given by law to the court are that the court, by its official duty, only takes care of a number of assumptions important for the successful completion of the registration procedures of the property. Before issuing a decision, the Court will have to ensure that the relevant changes to the earth's cadastral and to the cadastral buildings, which are, under the general rules, presuppose that the establishment of a level-of-the-floor property are carried out. It therefore implements the principle of the elimination of administrative barriers from the perspective of the participants and, from a public point of view, ensures the simultaneous coordination of both real estate records and, as a consequence, their consistency. The SVETL-1, which is before you, is a valuable and interestingly neutral regulation, which in the first place provides for procedures whereby, in a controlled environment, unfair courts are determined, on pre-known criteria, between public and private borders, between different public land managers and between property owners of which they are private. The procedures under this Act therefore transparently provide the basis for a peaceful and constructive regulation of life in urban communities, which does not, of course, exclude different uses and arrangements in the future with the use of legal institutions, such as the establishment of public service, the exercise of pre-purchase rights, the exercise of redundancies, the application of the possibilities afforded by contractual urbanism and a number of instruments of active land policy. The new law is, as has already been pointed out on the committee, the product of evolution, as it implements and includes good practices that have evolved over the past ten years, while at the same time addressing certain risks of bad, sometimes corrupt practices that have also been established or emerging at the same time. At the same time, it is a step forward and it responds with normative solutions to those problems that have been identified by judicial practice as insurmountable, without changing normative checks. Therefore, the SVEtL-1 also contains new procedural evidentiary rules and assumptions that will speed up procedures, while at the same time the solutions are not contrary to the fundamental requirements of civil law and are not detrimental to the purpose pursued by the law and to the legal security of the parties to these relations. In any event, the proposal for a law constitutes a provision that is crucial not only for general legal certainty but for the ten thousand property owners who have not or have not yet entered their rights or have not been able to register them in the land book. It is also crucial for the country and the municipalities, as it brings proper registration and materially correct entries into the land book, which are key to the safe and rapid availability of property. Since the conditions for the third hearing at this meeting of the National Assembly are met or if the conditions for the third hearing are met, I propose this also on behalf of the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u43	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 38th meeting, on 6 June, the Committee of Justice considered the proposal for a law establishing a level-of-floor property in certain buildings and identifying the relevant land as the working body. In the introduction, the Minister presented the proposal, the purpose and the objectives of the law. At the opening presentation, the Legislative and Legal Service also informed us that all their dilemmas had been resolved through the clarifications of the ministries and amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups and that no interest group or any parliamentary group in the National Assembly had actively opposed the law itself. In support of the law, the Supreme Court said, for example, that the proposed law supports the proposed law, as it will contribute significantly to a faster and better resolution of outstanding cases, and in particular stress the importance of the law in protecting the rights already acquired. Accordingly, the amendments of the committee have been adopted and all the articles of the law before you have been confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u45	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u46	Your Honor! The basic objective of the proposed law is to enable owners or high-level owners and acquirers of individual parts of buildings built before 2003 to achieve, as easily as possible, economical alignment of real estate records with the legal and legal situation. The proposed law thus constitutes an upgrade to the existing legal regime with good and established experience from case law, simplifies the procedural institutions and also removes administrative obstacles. It maintains the concept of two unfair judicial proceedings so far, this is a procedure for the establishment of a level-of-floor property and a procedure for the identification of the land concerned. The procedure shall remain formally independent of each other and may be initiated and carried out independently of each other. The fundamental characteristics of the procedure for the establishment of the floor property are also not changing; the procedure continues to maintain the process of legal institutions. The procedure for the establishment of a floor property is newly limited to, for example, the level-of-floor property created before 1 January 2003, and, on the other hand, the new law also removes any doubt as to the applicability of the procedure for the establishment of a level-of-the-floor property for all such cases. The Community shall be granted the status or capacity of the party represented by the administrator at the level of the building at all times of the floor owners, and the senior owners who wish to participate actively in the process shall have the opportunity to register their own participation and shall act in the process in addition to the communities of the first-level owners. This option shall apply in both procedures. The new law provides for a redemption right whereby the beneficiary may request the sale of the land it has lost, or the land on which it has built, although it has not previously obtained it legally effectively. Such a solution protects the public interest that already built buildings remain and operate normally and have the necessary land to do so. It shall also ensure the legitimate interest of senior owners or builders and shall ensure that the landowner receives a fair compensation for this. The new law specifically stresses the protection of already registered rights and legal facts and on already registered individual parts of the building, which actually exist in nature. The proposed law will contribute significantly to a faster and better resolution of pending cases and underlines its importance in protecting the rights already acquired, so we will support it in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u47	The SDS Group, Mrs Eva Irgle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Act, which filled the legal void in the system regulation concerning the legal protection of the extra-bookholders of the individual parts of the building with a view to establishing and recording the property in real estate records, entered into force in May 2008. The finer novelties of the law have removed certain shortcomings and obstacles in the recording of properties in the earth’s cadastral and cadastral buildings. As explained by the law, there is an increase in the number of cases in this area and there are also significant differences between courts in this area, with three districts and the District Court in Ljubljana not handling the cases received. This, of course, raises the issue of the protection of the property rights of the first-level owners and acquirers of individual parts or buildings. We welcome the Ministry's efforts to simplify and remove administrative obstacles in order to bring property records into line with the real and correct legal situation, while expressing concern about the specialised competence of judges in all courts to conduct complex procedures in this area. We are also concerned that, for example, the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of the floor owners does not, unfortunately, involve them in the preparation of changes to housing legislation or only invites them to present their already constructed starting points and thus leaves them in a subordinate position in relation to managers, although they are ultimately their assets and should enable effective supervision of the work of managers. We also expect that, in various ways, judges in all courts will be trained as soon as possible in order to finally resolve the issue of entering the land book in this direction in order to make the data in the land book real and real. In the SDS Group, we will not oppose the bill, but we will certainly closely monitor its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u49	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members and Minister of Justice! On the parliamentary benches, we have a proposal for a law whose main objective is to enable owners or high-level owners and acquirers of individual parts of buildings built before 2003 to achieve, as easily and economically as possible, the harmonisation of real estate records with the real and proper legal situation. Undoubtedly, it is a matter of upgrading the legal arrangements in force with good and established experience from case law, and there are also procedural institutions and it is also important that the proposal removes many administrative obstacles. So it is a key law, to effectively realize and dispose of the property of an individual. They are more clearly confused and regulated by procedural rules when it comes to identifying property and when individuals have already acquired property rights, but for a variety of reasons it has not yet been included in the land book. So it's a procedural provision, while the substantive basis is the substance of other laws. As has already been said, the bill also contains certain procedural solutions that have been pointed out mainly by the courts, such as examples of the treatment of the community of grass-roots owners, with their main feature being that a large number of owners and a large number of participants are present, but the main participants are passive. Therefore, from the Court's point of view, it will be very welcome to amend that not every decision will have to write all the participants, but it will be sufficient to say that it is a community of high-level owners. The Minister has already presented the solutions to the bill in more detail, so I will not repeat myself here. However, I would like to say that in the Desus Group we are pleased that the proposal has been widely coordinated, because in the preparation the applicants cooperated with the Notary Chamber of Slovenia, the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, the courts and others who are practically involved in the problem. In the Desus Group, we welcome the bill and, of course, we will support it, because the basic objectives are faster procedure and greater legal certainty for participants. There is no denying that this is an extremely difficult subject and that is why lawyers, judges and other experts involved in these proceedings have taken part in the drafting of the bill. On the basis of the foregoing in the Desus Group, we are convinced that we have a well-coordinated law two years before us. As has already been said, we will support the proposal because we believe it represents an issue of evolution, as it eliminates the shortcomings that have emerged in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u51	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished minister, colleagues and colleagues! When the proposal for this law came to our attention, we received a number of responses from people and a number of recommendations and requests for what to do about this law. Unfortunately or fortunately, they are related to the wrong law, which nevertheless regulates the issue of property, i.e. housing law, which indicates, above all, that although not through this law, I hope that we are still dealing together with an extremely important problem that causes people to become insolent. The issue of first-hand property, which is addressed by this bill, does not refer to the relationship between managers and owners of apartments and does not solve them through this law. It seems important to me that I say this in the beginning that people will also understand that this major part of the hardnut is still waiting for us in the coming year. The law before us is, as has already been said, one of the best examples of good practice, how to prepare, coordinate and make laws with extremely difficult matter. Its key purpose, however, is to enable high-level owners who have acquired the right to individual parts of buildings built before 2003 in order to achieve the entry as early as possible and by properly aligning real estate records with the actual and legal situation. Although today's debate, as well as I suppose, is a debate on the committee, at least that is my assessment, does not show the real complexity of this law, allow me to offer congratulations to the drafters and coordinators of this law, and the same degree of patience and enthusiasm at work to the coordinators and the drafters of the housing law, who will face the need to regulate relations between administrators and owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u53	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Act on the Establishment of Floor Property in Certain Buildings and on the Identification of Owning Land is a result of the transition from social property to private property. The consequences of this transition have been discussed several times in this mandate; in particular the injustices it has caused. This transition resulted in the collapse of the system of affordable, non-profit dwellings and later the so-called Yazbin law caused additional damage and a type of injustice. With the decommissioning of the housing fund, known by the system of self - administration, there has been a host of problems that have hit us hard on the head today. All the organisations owned by the public housing fund were left without the majority of their basic fund, the funds collected from the sale were, of course, not high enough to seriously restore the fund, and the municipalities also spent money for other purposes. Today, we are in bloody short supply of non-profit apartments, and we have the Republic Housing Fund, which builds luxury residential complexes where only a handful of people can afford housing. An average, if not socially endangered individual, who needs the solution of a housing problem far more than anyone else needs, is forced to rent an apartment at a marketable and oversupply price. And the consequences are seen virtually every day on television; these are assignments, with more of them. The second injustice of the transition was that it has placed the new system of citizens and citizens in an unequal position. One allowed the purchase of an apartment under favourable conditions, others not and tenants who had not decided to purchase it at the time or were unable to purchase it were later returned to the denationalising beneficiary together with their apartment. Housewives, for example, have completely fallen out of the system. We have tried to solve this problem already in 2015 with the amendment of the Housing Law, but the government at the time did not have a hearing, not a majority of the coalition, and there is still a number of outstanding cases at the annual level of around 500. There is simply no serious progress in resolving matters, the question is whether the adoption of the new law will improve this situation. We already have a problem with the law on the left because of the shift from social to private, and the shift that has led to a critical lack of non-profit housing, a host of injustices that have not been resolved to date. For this reason, we will not support the proposed law in the left-wing group. However, such injustices as occupations, for example, can take place formally in a system that guarantees private ownership in the Constitution, this is private property, such as a shrine and then apartments, roofs over the head, not as that fundamental human need and the right that we must take care of as a society, but as capital. So on the one hand, we have individuals with 500, 600, 700 flats who do nothing, who rent them at an overpriced price to students, socially disadvantaged, young people, those who cannot afford their apartments, and who are renting them, and on the other hand we are dealing with a practical epidemic of the jobs of the poorest who cannot afford to pay their bills, who do not receive sufficient social assistance, who have lost their jobs and so on. If we are serious about addressing this fundamental problem, we must exercise the right to private property in the Slovenian Constitution and instead ensure the right to personal property. Everyone has the right to a roof over his head and also to his car, and so on, if you want, but can't then in such a system and with such a constitutional correction happen that someone would bathe and plough out of capital a few hundred apartments, and someone else who actually needs an apartment would lose it in the process of employment and stay on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u55	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u56	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and colleagues! If we look at the earth’s book today and compare the situation there with the actual situation, we find that in more than half of the cases this situation is inconsistent. In other words, real estate owners are actually other persons, as shown by the land register. More. Looking wider, we know cases where the whole neighborhoods are already built, so in nature building plots, while in the land book they are still agricultural land. The issue of the deletion of major real estate is also known when switching from hand-operated to an electronic land book, which has not yet been removed today. A special chapter in this area is the establishment of a floor property for which no entry into the land book was required before the first of January 2003. The Real Law Code speaks of the presumption of property rights that the owner of the property is the one who is registered in the land book. The legal basis for entering the land title into the land title book is a legal transaction or a court decision, without which the level of property cannot be legally established. The biggest differences regarding legal property are, of course, seen in property owned by society and, therefore, it is not unusual that we have recently witnessed many affairs and abuses of the buyers of individual apartments. In New Slovenia, we have repeatedly stressed that harmonisation of real estate records with the real and proper legal situation is necessary. The book of floor property on individual parts of buildings is now, despite some simplifications in the applicable law, still a very difficult and administratively complex procedure. The proposal of today's law on the establishment of floor property in certain buildings and on the identification of the land concerned brings more simplification. Some do bring a quicker solution, while others leave open questions, and of these, public goods have already been declared on land, which in the process is found that the congregation does not have ownership rights. Since it is an administrative decision of the administrative authority which can only be annulled by the administrative authority itself which has issued it, we believe that in practice this new exceptional remedy will lead to a number of headways in the administrative procedure. While it is true that the Institute of Public Good is intended for the general use of all and is so incompatible with the institution of the property, since in this case the new facts found in the procedure proposed by this Act must be decided first by the municipal council of the municipality, and only then against this decision is possible judicial protection. In addition, we note that the procedures for the establishment of the floor property are still complex and require the special knowledge of the judges. This is also noted by the Government itself, which calls for the training of judges as quickly as possible, who will successfully complete the issue of entries in the Land Book. So the judges are not qualified enough for these proceedings? If we want the land book to be quality, up-to-date and transparent and as such a fundamental condition for safe and smooth legal traffic in real estate, it will be necessary not only to provide the legal basis for this but also to provide specialised judges. In the light of the proposal in New Slovenia, we will not oppose the new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u57	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. A vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 22 in line with the meeting’s time frame. 6. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law to supplement the law on the protection of human rights. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u58	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! The Law on the Ombudsman was adopted in 1993 and enforced in 1994. It was one of the first, if not the first, law that passed this important and constitutionally supported institution. Since then, the Law on the Ombudsman has not changed significantly. He experienced one, for example, because it was important to change in 2012, when the so-called National Preventive Mechanism was established under the auspices of the Ombudsman and thus fulfilled its obligations under the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Prevention of Torture. The Government has now submitted to the legislative procedure a new proposal or proposal for a law on amendments or amendments to this law. This suggests that we take the next important step towards strengthening the institution of the Ombudsman and protecting human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. The main reason for the amendment of the law is the decision to enable the institution of the Ombudsman to obtain status A following the so-called Paris Principles on the Status of State Institutions for Human Rights. To this end, the law proposes the establishment of a Council and a Centre for Human Rights, and on a proposal from the Ombudsman, we also propose the formalisation of child protection, a project that has been under way for 10 years under the Ombudsman, as well as the management of the general database of personal data and the organisational aspects of the functioning of the State Preventive Mechanism. The proposal to establish a state institution for human rights with status A is not new in Slovenia, but there was no agreement for a year on which model of this institution would be best suited for Slovenia. I am therefore pleased that after 24 years of the adoption of the Paris Principles and the World Conference on Human Rights, and also after 24 years of the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman, both on the part of the Government and on the part of the Ombudsman, we have found the way to the common proposal before you today. Currently, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia has status B among the state institutions, and with the proposal of the law we want to strengthen the Ombudsman's mandate in a way that will enable full compliance with the Paris Principles, thereby putting him alongside the majority of the guardians or ombudsmen in the European Union countries who already have status A. The recommendation to transform the Ombudsman into a state institution with status A according to the Paris Principles has also given Slovenia several countries in the second round of consideration in the context of the Universal Periodic Review of the UN Human Rights Council. I would also like to point out that, at the annual confirmation of the Ombudsman's report, the National Assembly has agreed to such an approach, but, as it is said, no realisation has taken place. The Paris Principles pay particular attention to ensuring the polarity of the functioning of the institution. Therefore, the Human Rights Council, which will further strengthen this aspect, will have 15 members, the consultative body of the Ombudsman, and will operate in accordance with the principle of professional autonomy. Another novelty is the establishment of the Centre for Human Rights, which will operate within the framework of the Ombudsman, will prepare its own research and will also be able to carry out certain education or training and to strengthen cooperation with civil society, trade unions and state authorities. Another important substance in the proposal is the law or legal basis for the establishment of child protection. A formalization of the institute has been proposed for 10 years under the project advocacy - the voice of the child. This year, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, at the proposal of the Ombudsman and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, carried out an evaluation of this project. Evaluation is extremely interesting and good reading and is also available on websites. External evaluation notes that a regulatory framework should be provided for the continuation of this good project. In the interest of time, I would also like to thank the Ombudsman, Ms Nussdorfer, and her colleagues, for their excellent cooperation in preparing this bill. I believe that it is time for us in Slovenia to make a move from the dead point after 24 years and to upgrade the Ombudsman's mandate accordingly, and that after 10 years of successful pilot project, the time has also come for us to formalise the child's advocacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u59	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Alexander Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. A respected minister with a team, an esteemed high choir! With today's general debate on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, the Ombudsman, who was prepared and presented by the Government to the National Assembly, we see in the Group of the Modern Centre Party as a welcome opportunity for us and the general public to highlight the importance of institutional protection of human rights in Slovenia. After many years of recommendations made by the professional public and the Ombudsman himself, who, unfortunately, remained unheard of until that day, we are now very close to the introduction of the amendment of the law that the Republic of Slovenia has received the national human rights institution. The current government, in close cooperation with the professional and the Ombudsman, has managed to find a solution that will fill a lot of gaps in the protection of human rights in our country. Once the proposed amendments and amendments to the law have been adopted, the Ombudsman will be given extended powers to fully fulfil the so-called Parisian principles and allow the Ombudsman to move from a state institution with status B to an institution with status A. In addition to the strengthened role of the Ombudsman within the national system of human rights protection, this status means that the Ombudsman's voice is also strengthened at international level. For we give the opportunity to cooperate with voting rights at the international and regional meetings of state institutions, the right to sit on the international coordination committee and its subcommittees, and the right to participate actively at meetings of the United Nations Human Rights Council. Although we would like the Republic of Slovenia to receive such an institution much earlier, in the SMC Group we are pleased to adopt the bill just in the year when we celebrate 25 years of membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the Organization of the United Nations, and at the time when our country holds second place as a member of the Human Rights Council. It is important for the general public, for which the Ombudsman is often a symbol or even a monument to the protection of human rights in our country, to stress that by extending the Ombudsman's mandate, apart from individual initiatives that individuals have the opportunity to address to the Ombudsman, they assign more general tasks. With the assistance of the new consultative body and the new internal organisational unit, the Ombudsman will also take over tasks relating, inter alia, to the promotion and respect of human rights, education, training, the organisation of thematic consultations and cooperation with civil society. This will ensure that it operates independently before the government, independently, takes into account plurality and is carried out on the basis of appropriate system-wide funding. In this broader mandate of the Ombudsman, the Group of the Modern Centre Party sees a great opportunity for the Republic of Slovenia, with the help of the State institution of human rights, which monitors and analyses the current situation and trends in the Ombudsman and the promotion of human rights, to formulate or deepen human rights policies in all areas of social life. While human rights must not be subject to politicisation, which is clearly contrary to the fundamental principles of universality, inviolability, indivisibility of human rights and the prohibition of discrimination, it is clear that the adoption of concrete policies is essential for the realization of human rights as moral and civil standards. Only through clearly designed goals and strategies for the realization of individual human rights can we hope to move to an even higher degree of overall realization of human rights in our country. The National Assembly, as a representative of the legislative branch of the Authority and a co-designer of human rights policies, must strive for a strong and independent state institution and take the best possible account of its findings and recommendations. As a result of our constitutional order, the fundamental values and objectives of the internal and also foreign policy must be to strengthen the institutional protection of human rights at home and the common interest of all of us in the world. The strengthening of institutional protection of human rights is also linked to the second major solution of the proposed amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman. The bill introduces a child protection system that will operate within the framework of the Ombudsman and will be implemented through a network of volunteers. Child support builds on an existing solution where representation is accessible to children only in judicial proceedings, but is not available in out-of-court proceedings and in other cases where the child is involved. By representing and defending the child and offering social assistance through a formalised system of advocacy, children's rights as one of the most vulnerable groups in our society are strengthened. The pilot project carried out by the Ombudsman since 2007 shows the advantages of including the child's advocate and representing his or her interests in the procedures concerned. In order to make these clearer, the pilot project needs to be replaced by a permanent solution that will be available to the child whenever he is in a life situation where he needs someone who listens to him, protects his interest and translates his opinion into the adult language. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we will support the conclusion in the general debate that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman is appropriate for further consideration. However, we would like to see the proposal for a law for the benefit of all individuals and individuals of our country and society adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u61	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the general debate, we have a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman. The main solutions or amendments to the law are: for the first time, to enable the Ombudsman to gain status A in accordance with the Paris principles — more on this later — and for the second time to establish a child protection institute. First of all, dear colleagues, allow me a few words about advocacy. It is a matter of professional assistance to children to express their views in all the procedures and activities where they are involved and then to the competent authorities. As is now envisaged in the law, advocacy should be carried out within the framework of a network of volunteers, which must ensure equal access for all children. Let me remind you that by now the child has been given some opportunity to represent himself with the Ombudsman or through the support of the Project Advocate – the voice of the child. I myself have participated in these debates on these issues several times in the past and have also participated in some events outside this Parliament, which were related to this very content of the Advocate – the voice of the child. Here are the main tasks of the advocates of empowering the child, which means that the child is finally acting as an entity in the full sense of the word, with all the rights that belong to him, and that the defender allows the child to be informed of the information relevant to his or her life and can express his or her opinion and thus protect him from abuse and bad practice. It is also important that the advocate in this process acquires the trust of children, which must be an integral part of the provision of information, advice and support. Child support means that a professional and independent person listens to the child but really listens to the child when he or she is in difficult, difficult situations because of different circumstances and is unable to perform parental duties for any reason. At this point, I will not go into the details of the changes to the law, because we are still in the general debate and we will discuss the appropriateness of the amendments in detail on the working committee of the home, but let me point out here that, as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, they have turned from one of the NGOs, where they point out that they had an extremely short deadline for comments and that it takes much longer to deal with such important issues as child advocacy. They also made a number of comments, concerns, proposals for which I personally want them to be examined in a further procedure, as they have also been forwarded to the Ministry of Justice, but more about this, as has already been said, we can say on the home working committee covering this legislation. Now to the second solution in this marriage. The Human Rights Ombudsman Act, as previously stated, also allows for the acquisition of status A under the so-called Paris Principles. Let us first explain what these are even Parisian principles, because perhaps the people accompanying us do not know. The Paris Principles refer to the status of State institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights and were adopted by a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly in 1993. The essence of gaining status A, because Slovenia now has status B, is that, through the establishment of the Human Rights Council and the Centre for Human Rights as the consultative body of the Ombudsman, it no longer deals with individual complaints, proposals and petitions, but to look more generally at respect for and protection of human rights. This means that it recognises the human rights situation, that it works on raising awareness and promoting and educating human rights. If we look at a little from a statistical point of view, we can see that out of 117 accredited state institutions for human rights, 75 countries have the status A mentioned, which means that these countries fully comply with the Paris Principles, then we have 32 countries with status B, so that is the status that Slovenia currently has. These countries are considered not to be in full compliance with the Paris Principles, which means that these countries, for example, cannot participate in the meetings of the Council of the United Nations, have no voting rights, but may participate as observers in international and regional work in accordance with their status. The 10 countries are then those with status C, which means that they do not comply with the Paris Principles. However, if we look only at the Member States of the European Union, we can see that out of 26 countries or state institutions that are engaged in such or otherwise in the protection and respect of human rights, there are 18 A status, status B has 6 countries, it is said, once again; here in this status, there is also Slovenia in this group – and two have the status C status. So far, there has been a number of attempts to gain A status within the Office of the Ombudsman, but due in particular to the human rights restrictions this has not been possible. We have also started these topics several times on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. On our last visit to the European Commissioner to the Council of Europe for Human Rights, we also discussed the subject. But here, let me be a little critical. A number of questions arise whether such a consultative body – but let us imagine, we are talking about Slovenia, not the other Member States of the European Union – would such an consultative body with the Ombudsman actually act as it is intended, i.e. as independent and plural or as it has already been established in other countries with such acquired status, or whether because of the political decisions already seen in the Ombudsman's Office or the Ombudsman's institution, he would also act politically instead of in the way that the Paris Principles dictate. This status regime, through legislative changes, raises another important issue, which is linked to the additional funding needed for the recruitment of additional staff. As stated in the Government's paper, additional funding will have to be provided to the Ombudsman in 2018 amounting to EUR 265,000 575, and for 2019 additional funding of EUR 517 thousand 538 is expected to be provided in the national budget, and for 2020 again around EUR 517 000. You know that in this National Assembly many times – of course on different subjects – I am now talking not only about this subject, but on different topics – in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have repeatedly pointed out that the Government in various areas is establishing constantly new and new agencies. Of course, I am not comparing this now with what we are talking about, but I just want to say that it is always establishing new and new agencies, which all too often turn out to be that we do not really know what they are doing or what they were set up to do. Financially, however, they need to be taken care of, although these funds could rather be earmarked for those who really need help and who are somehow pushed to the brink of society. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that monitoring of the situation of respect for or violation of human rights in a broader sense should be carried out within the framework of the current Ombudsman. Indeed, the Ombudsman has with him four other deputies covering each of his areas related to human rights violations. The law before us today in the general debate therefore establishes both the Human Rights Council and the Centre for Human Rights. The Human Rights Council is to, I quote from the law, "enable plural representation and strengthen cooperation with civil society and the profession". I believe that in the EU Member States where democracy is highly developed, this can work in this way. In our case, unfortunately, the Human Rights Council so formed can also act politically instead of independently and in strengthening respect for human rights. The Ombudsman is appointed by the Human Rights Council: 5 members are proposed from civil society, 3 representatives of science, one member is proposed by the Advocate of the principle of equality, the Information Officer, the National Assembly and the Council of State. And if this, respected colleagues and colleagues, is reflected in, say, the current situation and the stability of the forces of the situation, we see the following. The Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, is therefore the one who then confirms this entire session or appoints them to the Human Rights Council. Madam Guardian was, before she became a guardian, but here I am not talking about her work, but only about profiling, about some pedigree, if you like, she was also in the selection of candidates for Minister in the Pahor government. So we see that somehow we know where it belongs. Then five members of civil society. Most likely, as they were called in the RTV Programme Council – let us only remind Mr Savič, i.e. under the cover of a civil society, but most of the time they are politically profiled candidates. Then the Advocate of the principle of equality proposes one member. Who is it? This is Mr Miha Lobnik, who was, by the way, a candidate for an MP on the Alliance list of Alenka Bratušek, and we cannot exactly say that he is independent and that he is not politically positioned or profiled. Then one member proposes an Information Commissioner, Mrs Mojca Prelešnik. Who is Mrs. Mojca the Preglednik? Again, I am not talking about the content of her work, but who is Mrs Mojca Prelesnik. It was Pahor's government that appointed her secretary-general of the National Assembly. And in a situation like this, it's supposed to be a world that's not supposed to act politically, but only according to the Paris Principles. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't believe this because I've been in politics for so many years now, I've seen a lot of things. Personally, however, I would like to see that, by taking over status A, this actually means that the Ombudsman gets more of this manoeuvre space to enhance the protection of human rights, and personally, I very much want him to act on the principles of fairness and plurality in the end. This is also the key purpose of gaining status A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Minister-in-Charge! Unfortunately, the issue of human rights violations has been following us throughout history. In order to protect human rights and freedoms, when we become powerless and often without the necessary protection or basic knowledge, how to approach the State or the judiciary, we already have a legal basis with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the establishment of the Ombudsman's institution in the Republic of Slovenia. In an accompanying social environment, forgive me, in a changing social environment, it is still important to ensure a high degree of promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In a democratic country, it is essential to expect the provision of rights and freedoms for every individual. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the provision of fundamental human rights still has a bearing on the quality of the general sense of being and working both socially and individually in this society. Over the past 30 years, we have witnessed the extraordinary growth of the Ombudsman's institution worldwide and are now recording about 120 ombudsman's offices. It must be said that in almost all countries in Central and Eastern Europe, the Slovenian Ombudsman Act has become a model example for a successful marriage model and today we have its upgrade on the parliamentary benches. In the Desus Group, we believe that these are changes that strengthen the mandate of the Ombudsman. We are confident that such a strengthened mandate in the changed security and social conditions facing Europe and the world at global level will allow the Ombudsman's position in the Republic of Slovenia and thus continue to strengthen the level of respect for human rights, both in the interests of individuals and countries and society as a whole. The Ombudsman has systematically pointed out in his annual reports that there are shortcomings in the absence of a state institution that would meet the conditions for granting status A in accordance with the Paris Principles. We are glad that the warnings have only fallen to fertile soil. Status A is also increasingly important both to strengthen the realization and protection of human rights at national level and also to the reputation of the country in the areas of international links and human rights mechanisms. If I briefly touch on the essential amendments to the proposal, the Minister has already presented them in more detail. The proposal establishes the Human Rights Council as a consultative body within the Ombudsman's organisation. The Centre for Human Rights is also established as a permanent internal organisational unit. What we particularly welcome in the Desus Group is the creation of child support. The Ombudsman constantly points to the need to improve the situation of children when they find themselves in a family dispute as his weakest member. Children are too often just a means to achieve the goals of one parent, and their voice is rarely heard and even more rarely taken into account. Family misunderstandings, domestic violence, and divorces present an extraordinary emotional effort for a child. The advocacy will, as proposed, be carried out as expert assistance to children to express their views in all the procedures and activities where they are involved. The child’s opinion will be forwarded to the competent authorities. After more than 10 years of implementation of the project, the Advocate – the voice of the child will only be provided with more professional staff to help children in distress, which they certainly need. Infringement of fundamental human rights is a very serious problem today. In the Desus Group, however, we are convinced that unfortunately it is not possible to save him overnight, but we stress that progress will be possible when every human being starts putting first values, such as freedom, truth, peace, justice and, finally, love. In the Desus Group, we're going to break the bill. However, we will consider any additional proposals and comments on the proposal for a law in the course of the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law, which is before us, although by its scale and weight in grams, is not excessively extensive, but it follows the content and communication of one of the key laws of this mandate. We are talking at least about the issue of status A in accordance with Parisian principles, of course, it is something that Slovenia is obliged to fulfil when agreed to, and it is essential to raise the international reputation of our country and to fulfil what we have set ourselves. As essential, however, we consider the establishment of systematic and institutional advocacy for children to be more important. This has been done in this way, with the legal basis and also with the appropriate support mechanisms, primarily for young people, i.e. between 15 and 29 years, and for older and risk groups that could regulate this situation and status within the legislation. In contrast to the above, children were left behind more or less, at least as regards advocacy, non-governmental organisations, voluntary organisations and, of course, in good faith also to the institutions of the State which were primarily concerned with their protection and also with the translation of their problems, their language and their wishes, needs and attitudes into the language of decision makers. At both local and national level. In this mandate, as far as normative work is concerned, we have already adopted at least two laws that will significantly help to protect children more effectively and, in particular, to involve them more effectively in the processes that concern them. First of all, I am talking about the Family Code, which, after many years, regulates the matter with which we should really end decades ago, and puts the child at the forefront also in procedures where his primary advocates, i.e. parents, are in conflict. At the same time, in the recent amendment of the Penal Code, we have substantially strengthened the conditions where children are protected, especially when they are victims of trafficking in human beings, in all circumstances other than those directly related to trade. So when they find themselves in circumstances, half or even full of slavery. These are all very important normative steps that this congregation and this coalition have already taken. However, advocacy will be one of the most important points here, because without awareness and without adequate hearing, as well as publicity, the National Assembly, the Government, and, in the meantime, with delay, and in particular, it does not respond effectively enough to the problems that are of value to it in terms of the speed of resolution close, but are, if they are not sufficiently clearly and loudly exposed, too late or too few times to the political agenda. Why, in addition to the fact that this guardian is already today, at least as far as advocacy is concerned in a particular work, it may be particularly important that in the global circumstances in which we are, we are aware of the importance of child advocacy. Less than 24 hours ago, we paid a lot of attention to the day of the refugees. At the end of the wave, not the only wave of escape that went through Slovenia, many children traveled without a escort, without protection, but without a voice. Even when we adopted the Aliens Act in the National Assembly, which, in an important part, may also derogate from the rights of unaccompanied children, the institutional defence of these often mentioned rights has been absent, and fewer times through legislation are the most vulnerable groups in society. Our expectation is that in the future, even through the strengthened role of the Ombudsman in this area, such a situation may be an exception rather than a rule. Of course, it is always so that we can write everything down on paper, and most of the time, the latter can also put everything on paper. However, the manner in which the Ombudsman's mission is carried out and carried out depends on how this law can have effect in practice. Even more so through our understanding of the recommendations that we receive on hundreds of pages each year. Many of them, such as the need to regulate housing, have been repeated for 20 years. The Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek, following the presentation of the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The Ombudsman is an independent and independent body, which is not part of the mechanism of authority, but is its supervisor. It limits its will to interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms. His main weapon, on the one hand, is the reputation and, on the other hand, the awareness of the State and its institutions that the Ombudsman's requirements must be enforced. Unfortunately, there is no such political culture in Slovenia. As there is no political awareness that the decisions of the Constitutional Court, not to mention the other courts, must be implemented without delay. Both constitute the basic condition of the rule of law. It seems more likely that, above all, some political parties sometimes compete over what will show greater courage by disregarding the fundamental requirements of the rule of law. One of the more realistic indicators of the situation in the country is the report prepared every year by the Ombudsman on detected violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. However, a set of recommendations, which are repeated and systematically ignored year after year by governments and state institutions, clearly indicates that the Ombudsman is not as strong and influential an institution as he should be. This, however, does not indicate the Ombudsman’s poor functioning, but confirms the claim mentioned earlier. Although the Ombudsman is publicly acknowledged for the importance he has, they are, in fact, almost whistled at his warnings. But the bill before us does not essentially solve this. The government is probably not even in the interest of improving the situation, nor is it in the interest of the Ombudsman to have too much power, but at the very least it is in the interest of the Government, which is deepening social distress, that it peacefully allocates tens of millions to the best paid, and for the poor it counts euro cents, increases repression, additional powers to the repressive authorities, for example, and increasingly violates human rights. In the case of the Foreigners Act, it even smooths them out. All of this clearly shows that we need a strong institution of the Ombudsman, that there is a reflection on how wide a range of powers must be given to the effective exercise of its mission. But the law that we are considering today does not deal with it enough. What's more, we can find out that marriage is largely wrong. But not because of concrete solutions, but mainly because of the reasons for them. First time. The argument that the institution of the Ombudsman must be strengthened due to the changed security conditions facing Europe is absurd. The Ombudsman, as well as all ombudsmen in the world, oversees the work of state authorities, controls the human rights violations of these institutions. The Ombudsman's institution should therefore be strengthened because of increasingly flawed government policies, not because of the changed security situation in Europe. If governments did not increase repression, demolish social and legal states, convulsions and even human rights violations, they would not need these institutions at all. The Ombudsman's institution needs to be strengthened because of the unbridled desire of the authorities each time for more control, more repression, more interference with the rights of individuals. The absurdity of the introduction of child protection and the establishment of a Human Rights Council is that the security situation has changed. These bodies should be introduced in view of the need to protect children, due to the increasing number of infringements of workers' rights, due to the increasing social distress and high level of poverty, which is a key generator of problems in society, but not because of the security conditions which do not have any bearing on the fact that employers are increasingly openly violating workers' rights, and the Government opposes extending the powers of inspections that 50 thousand children are below the poverty threshold or that the Government has overrun the rights of refugees, the rights conferred on them by international agreements signed by Slovenia. The security situation is a consequence, not a cause. Another time. The extension of the Ombudsman's mandate and the establishment of new consultative bodies operating within the Ombudsman's framework is proposed because the Ombudsman wants to gain status A in accordance with the Paris principles. We need an expansion of the mandate because we have more problems and not because we want to gain status. The Ombudsman's staff enlargement cannot and must not only be proposed because of the status, it must be proposed because we want to eliminate the injustices that are taking place and reduce the number of violations of these rights. It is wrong to obtain status A simply because of formal compliance. The status should be linked to the success of ensuring respect for rights, to the fact that the Ombudsman can actually influence the policy that he may require the State to remedy the infringements found. By the way, all the things we listed today, what the guardian could do with the amended law, the guardian can do from the very beginning. The preventive mechanism — the Ombudsman has been working on it all the time, and he has prepared a report on it. Child support — for at least ten years now it has been done by the Ombudsman, most ombudsmen, not because the Ombudsman would like to do so — the original ombudsman should not do so in principle – but because the state does not do what it should do because the state does not provide child protection. Since the State did not do the institution of child protection, the Ombudsman began to do so, although this is not its original function. So he can educate and organize conferences and so on. My dears, the Ombudsman has been doing this all the time, he has already prepared many conferences, even the 2003 international conference on the Parisian institution, institution A. There are documents for more than 10 years that no one has smelled. Before each election, while I was asked by political parties when I told them what we had done with the Commissioner for Human Rights and experts from all over Europe, some political parties were very enthusiastic about it when they came to power and forgot that it existed. Now we're going to give all this to the guardian, a lot of it, most of it has already done, thank God, because the state hasn't done what it should have done. We must be aware that the ombudsman's institution is primarily in control of the exercise of power, not instead of the authority that does not want to do something, to work. I do not object to the Ombudsman doing this, but I am afraid that in the end it will be such that the state institutions will not do their job, because they will say if we have a guardian who does it. Unfortunately, there will still have to be a very thorough examination of the border between the control function and the execution function that the Ombudsman somehow acquires. There's a very thin border and a very big problem. The third problem of this law, the guardian will continue to oversee a limited circle of debtors. Its only effective weapon will continue to be a requirement for a constitutional review. In each report containing more than 100 different recommendations, which each government systematically ignores, it would be difficult to say effective weapons. Together with this bill, we received the Ombudsman's 2016 report to the National Assembly. Warnings and recommendations are repeated, and the pressures of citizens and citizens are increasing. One day, it will be decided at the meeting how urgent it is to eliminate all the injustices that the Ombudsman warns about the importance of the Ombudsman's report, and we will conclude that all institutions and officials at all levels must follow the recommendations and implement them. Then we will see from the governments everything before we follow the recommendations. Next year, the game, the praise of the guardian and the simultaneous ignoring of the guardian will continue. This amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman does not solve this problem. An amendment to Article 6 was originally envisaged, setting out the circle of the debtors. This amendment is one of the debtors who, at his request, must provide the Ombudsman with all the information and information under their jurisdiction and allow him to carry out the investigation, has included at least the public service operators, but this solution has eventually emerged from the amendment proposal. Instead, it is suggested that the Ombudsman, by supplementing the law, may be given a general mandate to, for example, raise society's awareness of broader issues such as the prevention of domestic violence and child rights. If it's written, it means that whoever wrote this has no idea what the guardian is doing. The Ombudsman has been drawing attention to broader issues, education. Since 2003, we have had human rights education in primary schools, the whole project is that, we have had dozens of educations and so on. We have received even a quarter of a million euros from Brussels in order to make a six-year education for civil servants on discrimination. I have to say that most institutions or inspections in this country have said that there is no problem with discrimination in Slovenia, so I had to call the Minister of the Interior or the Public Administration and, as I would have said, inform his inspectors or chief inspectors who did not find that this is a major problem in Slovenia when poor people had to suffer and listen to the education on discrimination prepared by the best experts from all over Europe, through the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner and so on. This is really the main situation. I am not saying or saying that this law will not do much, especially institutionalising what the Ombudsman is already doing. So it'll be a little easier to work. However, I fear that, on the other hand, all the institutions that will have to do something will say that it is not necessary because the Ombudsman is working. I'm sorry, I have to tell you that the main problem of all state institutions is that they spend -- that's what I wrote in the first or second report more than 10 years ago -- more time for excuses that there's nothing to be done, than spending it to do that thing. I'm afraid there's a major problem here, which doesn't mean we can't improve the law. But no improved law will help if this climate is not in society. This is a responsibility, such as power in the country, from the Prime Minister to ministers and so on. I'd end up here. In addition to these things that I have said, there are still some open questions about the solutions that are contained in the proposal. Several comments and concerns were raised by NGOs. These, I must say, have always had a very important influence, and sometimes they were the only ones — when we talk a lot about the interests and the protection of children today, they were the most important or almost the only ones years ago. We will probably also receive comments at the time of the hearing in the National Assembly. Of course, the Law-Legal Service will also give its opinion. I expect that these comments will also be taken seriously into account in the next proceedings. In the United Left, we will support this law and closely monitor how these things will be implemented until further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u70	All in attendance, all in attendance! The Ombudsman, as a state institution with status B, is expected to meet all the necessary criteria for obtaining status today in accordance with the so-called Parisian principles. The proposer says that Slovenia is increasingly confronted with warnings that it does not have a state institution to promote and protect human rights and that the strengthened mandate of the Ombudsman will enable it to strengthen respect for human rights, including the new additional protection of the rights of one of the most vulnerable groups, which is a child. In New Slovenia, we see no real arguments in the proposal for a new law on the Ombudsman, which would justify the real need for as many as three newly established advisory bodies or permanent internal organizational units with such broad powers. Let's see. The 14-member Council for Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms appoints the Ombudsman. Their composition is varied, from civil society and representatives of science to representatives of the National Assembly, the Council of State and government officials. The Centre for Human Rights, to be established in early 2019, has an extremely wide range of tasks: promotion, information, education, preparation of analyses of individual areas of human rights protection. It is exclusively an act of general information on complaints to international bodies without specific right advice and child support, not as a child's legal representative, but as a third party who is supposed to help children express their views in various proceedings. The implementation of this institute will be accompanied by a professional council, which will also be appointed by the Ombudsman. For all of these changes, or for the functioning of the newly established internal organisational unit and advisory bodies within the Ombudsman, the new employment of public servants, the material costs and investments in additional premises, we will have to spend a million EUR 300,000 in total in three years. Yeah, you heard right. A good million 300,000 euros and something else. This is due to the fact that Slovenia is among the worst countries on the basis of the performance index of the public systems in the European Central Bank analysis, while the trend in employment in the country sector is significant. Christian Democrats are convinced that today's amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman is an entirely unnecessary artificial creation of new internal organizational units and bodies within the Ombudsman. The fact is that the Ombudsman does not carry out his duties in accordance with expectations. Often this is not the case when it is absolutely necessary or sometimes it advocates positions that are contrary to the interests of most citizens. As of now, the Ombudsman has also been working as an advocate of children's rights, which also works within the framework of the Project Advocate – the voice of the child. This counsel did not give his opinion during the adoption process of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, nor in other procedures that were not in the interest of children. It is therefore merely a matter of providing new jobs and thus new jobs, which will not make the Ombudsman any better in practice. Nor will its possible transformation into a state institution with status A help. If the Ombudsman were truly a defender of all citizens, he should contact himself or draw attention to other human rights violations in his annual reports. In his reports, he very often draws attention to discrimination against members of the Roma community, members of national communities and others. However, we never trace the data on discrimination according to the religious and political belief that is on the rise in Slovenia. We also expose intolerance and hostility toward Christians, such as insults and public incitement to hatred of Christians. I can mention here Mrs. Svetlana Makarovič's statement. Vandalism and defamation of religious symbols and entities. We do not follow up on such statements of the Ombudsman's and other representatives of the State. Let's keep looking. In recent years, the Ombudsman has submitted a number of constitutional requirements to show that his human rights and fundamental freedoms are being protected as a matter of priority. In 2016, he submitted a new Law on Defence to the Constitutional Review because he opposed the military's exceptional powers. And this year, a novel of the Foreigners Act. All in the spirit of opposition and disagreement, even with temporary measures that provide Slovenian citizens with public order and internal security. In view of the above, in New Slovenia we will oppose the amendment to the Human Rights Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Walking through history can provide us with many moments that have contributed to the development of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the form we know today. From the pursuits of equality and mutual respect for ancient cultures, to the philosophical debate on the legal rights to the first legal instruments that recognized human rights similar to human rights. The largest milestone in development, however, was the general declaration of human rights, which was the result of historical events, particularly World War II, in 1948. Thus, human rights and fundamental freedoms are now enshrined in the highest legal acts of the countries, including the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This human rights and fundamental freedoms are also subject to a special chapter in Article 159, which defines the Ombudsman, which was established in 1993 in the Law on the Ombudsman. That same year, a resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Paris Principles on the Status of State Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights defining the tasks and conditions for the recognition of such institutions, which are characterised by general human rights tasks. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia enjoys status B among state institutions, although for years he has pointed out the absence of a state institution that would fulfil the conditions for the granting of status A in Paris. We are pleased that the Government has found time after years of the Ombudsman's warning to remedy the shortcomings that will enable the Ombudsman to gain that status, because this means strengthening the protection of human rights both at national and international level. What we are particularly pleased about is the legal definition of the child protection system, which, as a pilot project, has been operating for a decade. Children, this most vulnerable social group can't even find out in crisis situations and stress procedures without the help of stable adult support. When parents or caregivers of a child do not find themselves alone because of such or other circumstances, it is right that the child has a confidant who puts the child’s benefits at the forefront, guides him and helps him to cope with the hardships that nothing is wrong with him. Eleanor Roosevelt, a human rights fighter, once wrote down: “Where do human rights begin after all? In small places, close to home, so close and so small that they can't be seen on any map of the world. Nevertheless, the world of an individual is a neighborhood where he lives, a school or a university he attends, a factory, a farm, or an office where he works. These are places where every man, woman and child strives for equal rights, equal opportunities, equal dignity, no discrimination. If these rights are meaningless in these places, they are of little value anywhere else. Without the joint action of citizens to respect these rights close to home, we will seek for nothing progress in the wider world." End of story. In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members, we support and believe that it is appropriate for further consideration of the amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Whenever we talk about human rights and do something in the National Assembly to improve the protection of human rights, it is a great day for me in the National Assembly. Today we are talking about a proposal that has not been made, because some current case would challenge it or talk about it because of another law that regulates a specific area, and then the human rights issue comes up and we talk about it as something very important. Human rights are the ones where everything starts and ends. This is in the protection of human rights. It seems very important to me that this law will provide us with a formal opportunity for the Ombudsman to be granted the status of institution A under the Paris Principles on the status of State institutions for human rights in 1993. The former Ombudsman, who now represented the position of the United Left, has also said, but many of you have already said in your views that these things are already being done by the Ombudsman to study, explore, warn in general, not only dealing with specific cases, but it is necessary to ensure that what he is doing is institutionalised, thus ensuring a formal framework that this status of the Ombudsman can be acquired in general. If by what he's already doing, he can get it, he can get it, but he's not. The law needs to be changed, and that's what this law does. I think that this is absolutely necessary and, therefore, I am in favour of this amendment, to extend the mandate of the Ombudsman in order not only to have a formal opportunity to deal with specific cases, but to have, as I believe, a broader mandate for general tasks, i.e. to identify the situation, to promote, to encourage, to raise awareness, to education. Although we seem to have, we have also received advocates of the principle of equality, institutions dealing with this, we have, after all, also the Commission for Human Rights in the National Assembly, but these are very important institutions, and this task of analysing, accelerating, information is very important due to the creation of a general consciousness in society on the issue of human rights and also certain assessments on the basis of several cases, based on trends in society, not just one concrete case, so that we can then react in an appropriate way and prevent certain things from escalating, because then it is very difficult to find specific legal protection and act in individual cases. The international institutions responsible for determining the situation in the field of human rights are very important because they give one independent and impartial opinion from outside on certain human rights issues. As we have already heard from some viewpoints, we cannot avoid the question of not going to the person, the question: why, in the interest of which political group, always arises. In international institutions, in the Human Rights Council, including in bodies responsible for overseeing the implementation of international human rights treaties, we have bodies that give one impartial opinion dealing with the situation from the outside. I guess we can't tell them in Slovenia that they're part of the continuity or that they're part, I don't know what else, left, right, black, white, green. Therefore, these international human rights bodies and institutions are important. The United Nations Human Rights Council in particular. What is important is the formal status of our institution for human rights within this body. It is very important that our Ombudsman is given a formal status to participate in meetings of the Human Rights Council. If you look at the website in all five official languages of the United Nations, it can also be in Arabic if someone understands what the United Nations Human Rights Council is doing, there are a lot of thematic issues it deals with. In addition to being able to take individual initiatives to assess a particular situation, the United Nations Human Rights Council is also able to assess individual countries, including Slovenia, and it is important that we allow our Ombudsman to engage actively in this body and contribute to its work and also to point out some of the things that are relevant to us in order to obtain from this Human Rights Council an impartial, objective assessment, which I believe is the right to believe that this is the one that is consistent with the trends and conclusions that actually means protecting human rights, which is in the interest of all and some partial interests. It is therefore very important to provide a formal framework. And that's what this law does. However, in order to allow this to happen under this law, I also think it is appropriate to set up a Human Rights Council. This is not a permanent body that will cost us very dearly in the end, because it is not a formal institution. But what I also think is very important is to get involved in the debate on human rights, about realisation, about problems, about trends, about development at international level as well. It is important to include civil society and the profession in this debate and then the adoption of certain initiatives, perhaps more so than ever before, in order to obtain a forum for those who work in this area to express their views and thus give a substantive complement to the work of the Ombudsman, not to say input. It's modern to speak English now that you have a public appearance. The next important body, however, which I think will contribute to the more effective work of the Ombudsman, which he will have by fulfilling this task, by extending his mandate, is the Centre for Human Rights, as it will be necessary to strengthen the Office of the Ombudsman in order to be able to carry out the tasks entrusted to him by the new law. What I am particularly pleased with is the institutionalization of child protection. There are many situations where in different formal or informal procedures children have the right to representation under procedural laws. They also have the right to a custodian if their interests run counter to the interests of parents. In view of the fact that this is a vulnerable group, even in the case of children with special needs, it can also happen many times that their interests conflict with the interests of parents. I am confident that there will be very many cases where this advocate of the child will be able to work and have the opportunity to help the child to express his or her will, which will then affect how his or her rights will be realized. In view of the fact that this project has been implemented by the Ombudsman for several years, that it is already substantively present and that it is effective, I think it is important that this institution also formally be established in law and provided at the end of the day with the means for its implementation. Although it will be provided through a network of volunteers, it is certainly easier to carry out a certain function, to introduce a specific institution if it has a legal framework. The only thing that somehow escapes me in all this matter is the fact that it does not have a direct connection with this law, is in fact our awareness of the importance of human rights and the institutions we have. If we have established an advocate of the principle of equality, which has a very high level of competence, including general powers, but we have estimated that it is sufficient, I don't know, 200 000, but the additional resources for some of the general tasks are significantly higher, here the question arises whether we have really well assessed the financial needs of that other body and how much these institutions we have set up mean to us, whether we will really make the advocate of the principle of equality, and perhaps because of the lack of financial resources, he will be less able to carry out this function, which is also very important to some extent different from the Ombudsman's institution. I believe that we must work on this and strive to do so, just as we have established the Ombudsman of Human Rights a long time ago, and that we are now extending his powers and providing him with financial resources, and we must do the same with this advocate of the principle of equality. If he has no real job opportunities, he can’t work and do what we set him up to do. It is, however, how our society is treated as such to ensure the protection of human rights, and it will be, in specific cases, either in providing independent analyses, education, monitoring of the situation. I, for example, forgot to say this, I miss having these human rights commissions, as well as the findings of individual bodies, such as the Human Rights Commission, which oversees the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Commission, which oversees the implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and others. I'm missing a public briefing on the findings of these bodies. They are probably published somewhere on the websites, but I hope that the Ombudsman will, within these powers, become even more familiar with the findings of these bodies and also in his report, point out to the Government that some things need to be regulated, because, once again, it is very important that we take note of the picture that the international bodies to which we have joined as a party and oversee the implementation of these international instruments, international human rights treaties and also make observations on the situation with us. You might be surprised to learn that we do not have enough to discuss. And these, I repeat, are impartial findings that have nothing to do with our internal political scene. It would be very useful for the Ombudsman to inform the public of this and also in his report to place more emphasis on this issue, that we have one broader international picture. This is also what international institutions in this area are designed to inform the public of the state of human rights in this area. It was mentioned earlier, if only I could say that the Ombudsman's recommendations are not being implemented. The Government of Mir Cerar has introduced the practice that every year it will also give an interim review of the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations, by striving not only to respond to the report every year, what we have done now, what we have not done, but also to identify and decide between the years what we have done, what we have not done and what we still need to do. There is a great deal of effort to make the Ombudsman's recommendations come true, and it will be done in advance. This is also reflected in today's amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman, which I will support at first reading. I will therefore support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz, to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Dr. Gonch.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is clear to me that the main reason for amending the Law on the Ombudsman is to enable the acquisition of status A under the so-called Paris Principles on the Status of State Institutions for Human Rights of 1993, and, of course, I support these efforts. I also support the proposal for a law in this first reading, because I also believe that the role or mandate of the Ombudsman in a rather uncertain social and security situation can be important in terms of the actual respect for human rights. I also agree with the Ombudsman's enhanced or complementary role in the field of child rights, including the upgrading of the child protection law. Above all, events in recent months have encouraged us to take another positive step in this area. In this context, I am assessing a good proposal for the establishment of a centre for human rights, and we wish to do so today, and it has already been stressed that this will be a real qualitative and organisational upgrade of the Ombudsman's institution, but not an additional bureaucratic entanglement of competences in this extremely difficult and sensitive area, which unfortunately has occurred in some other areas. Since I believe that an important step will be taken in this case, I also reiterate the issue of the so-called special rights of indigenous communities, which should also receive additional attention in the context of the newly established centre. According to the current legal standards, one of the deputies of the Ombudsman is specifically responsible for the area, but despite the fact that he and the Ombudsman are still in a very successful relationship with the Ombudsman, they are still at a disadvantage in this area. Let me just mention that due to the web of different circumstances, in particular negative historical stereotypes, the Ombudsman's visits are still quite passive. This does not mean that there are no problems, but it means, above all, that these problems are still not exposed or are not exposed to. I believe that we agree with this that the specific rights of indigenous national communities and their members are very important in the context of comprehensive human rights and freedoms and that effective and very well-established supervisory mechanisms are needed to implement the legal provisions in this area. It is in this context that we believe that the Ombudsman, with his enhanced powers, as well as the Human Rights Council, can be even more effective. In the further phase of the adoption of this bill, this text should possibly be upgraded in this respect and our Group of Members will be happy to cooperate if necessary or if you agree to do so. One of the shortcomings so far is that, as a result of the current law, only a member, as an individual within the indigenous national community, could, as a rule, turn to the Ombudsman. I am convinced that, in the context of this amendment or possibly in another law, for example, in the Comprehensive National Community Act, this issue could be dealt with in greater depth in such a way that legitimate organisations of indigenous national communities can also address it, because these institutions are most aware of inconsistencies and human rights violations. I ask that, from this point of view, in the further phase of the adoption of the law, consideration be given to the upgrading of the law on the Ombudsman. Like I said, in the first reading, I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Let me welcome, in the introduction, both the activities of the Ministry of Justice and the Institute of Human Rights, that they have jointly prepared the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman, which will fully respect all the criteria of the Parisian principles for the acquisition of status A by the Ombudsman. We do not have the complete powers that the Ombudsman could have in Slovenia. And many times the Ombudsman has warned about this in his reports, but at the same time, governments have not gone beyond what has been discussed. Of course, this issue is particularly important because we are faced with a very sad statistical record or statistics, according to which Slovenia is on top of the number of convictions of the European Court of Human Rights. This is certainly something that should be an additional stimulus for us to really adopt this law as soon as possible and gain this status A, the highest status with which we can properly or substantially more effectively regulate human rights in Slovenia. However, we are quite weak in Slovenia in the systematic monitoring of the situation and in response to systemic human rights violations. This is not an accident, but it is, unfortunately, a systemic plan for human rights violations. And this is something that certainly Slovenia should not be proud of. Of course, all these human rights violations, when decided by the European Court of Human Rights, also have serious financial implications for the budget. In addition to violating human rights, we needlessly burden our public finances, which are crucial for you to apply exactly the public interest that is, in Slovenia, through the budget, the one that really needs to be cared for. When we talk about this public interest, it should be noted that, under Article 3 of the Constitution, the authorities of the people in Slovenia and both the National Assembly and the Government and, as a consequence, the State Administration, as well as the local administration, carry out only those tasks with which they actually serve citizens and citizens, and they cannot in any way interfere with their status, without their consent. This is what is happening to us all the time in Slovenia, and this is what has actually caused a systemic violation of human rights, because we are not aware of it. When you realize that authority has a people, all of a sudden you have a much more responsible attitude toward every citizen and citizen. Therefore, I believe that this status of increasing the Ombudsman's powers will certainly help to do so. To a large extent also because civil society will also be involved in the work of the guardian through the world that is being established. Civil society was also one of those who kept reminding of this situation in Slovenia alongside the Ombudsman. So we can say that this also creates some kind of synergy, a common approach to finding new solutions that could ensure that, above all, the level of social life, especially the public sector and national security, goes in the public interest, but not in the direction of reducing such supply through all the public services we have – let me not just mention health, which is the most exclusive example in the last period when people are actually dying because of this, because this area does not work, to many others. The security area is certainly one of those which is also crucial for us to be able to effectively guarantee human rights. When we ask how to control both the judiciary and the banking sector and this part in Slovenia in a banking area that has been somehow isolated from supervision all the time, what consequences have we actually experienced in Slovenia for this reason. This has also resulted in a systematic violation of human rights, resulting in drastic interventions to reduce public spending and thereby reduce the right to a decent life. This is exactly what must be achieved in Slovenia through this principle – the return of dignity to the citizens of Slovenia, so that they will not have what is happening to them, so that you lose even an apartment, a house for a minimum amount of 124 euros. This is something incomprehensible that can happen in Slovenia. I could list a whole bunch of other things. For example, in the case of traffic offences, someone with almost or under a decent salary received pays the same penalty for a minor traffic offence as someone who, for example, has 20, 30 000 euros to pay. This is a disproportionate situation in many areas. They are always more burdened and punished if I can use this term, those who face lower incomes that have a more difficult social situation than others who do not have these problems. I therefore once again welcome this law and the early enforcement so that we can truly say that we will return dignity to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible in a way that we will not face a systematic violation of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Representative of the Ministry of Justice, dear colleagues and colleagues! Human rights, yes Our country was actually created because before we Slovenians lived in another country where human rights were violated. [[…]] Human rights were violated in the SFRY and there was no rule of law. These are just two reasons why we decided to go our own way. And we did it. It was a very united and great will of people expressed on plebiscite. The first Demos government succeeded with its priority project, the independent state of Slovenia. What is the situation today regarding the protection of human rights? We're probably gonna talk about this a lot more, and we're gonna talk about it over and over and over again. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the key question is: will the status of a state institution, status A, in fact immediately mean less human rights violations? And let me just say here that, as far as the B-to-A status change is concerned, unfortunately, citizens don't understand that much, but I don't really disagree with that. May the Ombudsman receive status A, which means that he will become a state institution, which can participate fully in international and regional work and in meetings of state institutions as a member of voting rights and may also be established in the Bureau of the International Coordinating Committee, may also participate in meetings of the UN Human Rights Council. Actually, that doesn't bother me. I support this part. If we look at statistics within the European Union, where we are full members, in 18 of the 28 Member States, the Ombudsman has the status of A. No one, ladies and gentlemen, will convince me that now, with the establishment of the Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms Council, which will have 14 members, and with the establishment of the Centre for Human Rights, by setting up a child advocate, because we already have this, we already have a Advocate – the voice of the child, no one will convince me that with the internal enlargement, the establishment of internal functions of the worlds, centres, advocates, will suddenly reduce the violation of human rights. No one's gonna get me to do that. I therefore consider that it is an entirely unnecessary artificial creation of new internal organisational bodies within the Ombudsman. It's totally unnecessary. If this were to ensure greater protection of human rights, yes, then let us put in an additional 300 in the closing account and we will all of a sudden ensure 100% protection of human rights. It's not working. That's not how it works. Not to mention the high financial burdens of the state budget. But if the effectiveness of the proposal were to convince us here that it would be worth an increase of €1 million and €300,000 over the next two years, if it convinced me that the protection of human rights would be greater with this new organisation, then it would also support this greater financial burden. The fact is that the Ombudsman does not carry out his tasks according to expectations, he often does not answer, but should, when this is absolutely necessary or at some point, defends positions that are contrary to the interests of most citizens, as we have already said in the position of the Group of Members. I have never heard the Ombudsman say, for example, that religious freedom is one of the fundamental human rights. Never. I've never heard that before, but maybe I will. Even now, the Ombudsman is also acting as an advocate of children's rights, as I have already said, who has also not given his opinion during the adoption process of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Let me remind you of the referendum in December 2015. In addition to other procedures that were not in favour of children, this counsel did not respond. So he forgot the 53rd Article of the Constitution, which protects the family. This article, the Constitution, speaks of the State protecting the family, motherhood and fatherhood, children and youth and creating the necessary conditions for this. Then what will you do with such an advocate? You can have 20 employees and if they're quiet, what are you gonna do with them? You say these are really good jobs. And if anyone, ladies and gentlemen, is right for us Members, at least from my experience we can speak, in our parliamentary offices we meet people, yes, even those who are on the verge of despair. And they come into my office, and I can't help them because they've been dismissed, for example, just one case. We could also watch this on TV shows. Where there are also lawyers, notary offices, even courts and come and cry, they are on the brink of despair, all their lives, generations ahead of them creating a home, a farm and now they are simply vacant. There's a lot of these cases. I can show you. I'm also in the middle of an anonymous letter. I got it yesterday. There's a man on the verge of despair. Why anonymously? Because he says he's afraid to talk about it and write. He's afraid, in a democratic country, at the beginning of the third millennium! Because the authorities put him on the verge of despair. What about human rights, for example, with an entrepreneur who has been waiting for a building permit for seven years and who is effectively prevented from his freedom, economic freedom, entrepreneurial freedom, in the constitution. We have free letters such as these on paper, we have state authorities free of charge, we also have a report, and the Ombudsman's annual report, which we are considering here in the National Assembly, and some comments are clearly addressed to each department, and nothing happens. What happens now that we have a substantially broader body of the Ombudsman? It is likely that the report will be three times as thick as it is expected that there will be three times as many demands as possible for changes to be made in the legislative branch of government so that human rights are not violated. But there's no sanctions. If there were sanctions for the Minister to fly away or a minister who would not, for example, eliminate certain clearly articulated human rights violations within one year. If there's no sanction, nothing happens. That's a fact. By assessing that it is only a matter of providing new jobs that are good. Accurately calculated, although the legislator or the bill-maker here does not serve with an exact number, I would like to see exactly how many new jobs are actually going to require an increase in the budget for a good half million at the annual level. I'm concluding. It is therefore merely a matter of providing new jobs and thus new jobs, which will not make it possible for the Ombudsman to work better in practice, according to our assessment. Even its possible transformation into a state institution with status A will probably not help, although, as regards the change in status, I do not have some serious comments here. Otherwise, this new structure, the new organisational scheme, the new jobs, I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that there will be any more effective Ombudsman. But this will also be seen very quickly when the comments or recommendations of the Ombudsman's annual report are implemented or not implemented through individual ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Marijana Kotnik Poropat has the word to prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The draft law on the Ombudsman is undoubtedly about changes that strengthen the mandate of this institution, i.e. the Ombudsman. I would also like to say that I think that this law is a very important law, probably one of the most important laws that we or we will adopt in this mandate, because it speaks of the most important things, it is about human rights. The legal basis for the establishment of this institution is, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted on 23 December 1991. The very origin of this institution or its predecessor and the predecessor of the Ombudsman is the Council for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was established in 1988. This was the time when in Slovenia there was a deepening of the veil on the role and importance of human rights. So I can say peacefully that the Ombudsman did not start from scratch, but continued the work of the Council for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And this work must be continued, upgraded and tackled with the problems of life in this area. By adopting this law, I think that's exactly what we're doing. I would also like to point out that the reason for the amendment of the law is not only that our only objective is to fulfil the Paris principles, but that in a changing social environment we will ensure a high degree of promotion of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Here I am also referring to the things presented today by my colleague, Mr Weber, and before me also the distinguished Mr Horvath. As I said, we still have a lot to do in the field of the Ombudsman. Let me just remind you of the refugees who came to us because of personal distress and trauma. Refugees are people in severe distress and, as such, justified and needed protection against the promotion of any discrimination. Here we have to ask ourselves whether in Slovenia we have always done the right thing when we have encountered these people's problems. Probably not, and that's why we have to think about it. Here I would particularly draw attention to the problem of refugee children who have also come to our country without a escort, i.e. without any protection, and as such they are particularly vulnerable and need special attention and protection. This must always be before our eyes in the future when we face the problems of these children. And let me continue with the children, with the violations of children's rights. In cases where children are involved in various disputes, such as family disputes, separation procedures and other cases of disagreement between parents and children or other family members. The worst part is when a child is used by a parent or one of the parents in a conflict with a partner as an object with which he is blackmailing the partner. Such a child in these cases is under great pressure, in great distress and is experiencing terrible stress, grief, anxiety, in fear, he does not know how to act, perhaps even a parent who loves both of them, somehow calms down. Especially is the problem when such children find themselves in court. Therefore, it is essential that these children have professional protection. So I read with great joy when I opened this marriage to establish a child’s advocate as a professional support to these children. We should be very grateful that we came to this. Moreover, the Ombudsman has status B in Slovenia because the Ombudsman did not assess that he could implement all the provisions of these Parisian principles. Now, by adopting this law, we will achieve that our Ombudsman will also receive status A, which is very commendable, so that we will be in the same position as the rest of the European Union in respect of the protection of human rights. Respected and respected! This novel introduces the establishment of child protection, the establishment of a Council and a Centre for Human Rights and the extension of the Ombudsman's powers to public services, so I would like this law to be adopted and enforced as soon as possible. I estimate that this law is suitable for further consideration, so I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get Mrs Ludmila Novak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Indeed, Slovenia is, according to statistics, at the very top of the number of convictions of the European Court of Human Rights, which certainly cannot be proud of us, and I must say that I also actually welcome this proposal for today's enlargement of this basic law on the Ombudsman. However, I cannot agree with what my predecessor has also said about the child's advocacy for the establishment of a new institution. We must be aware that this has been a pilot project that has been implemented since 2007. For 10 years, the pilot project has been carried out, and I think it is right that the child's advocacy is regulated by law, so I must mention this here, because this is a very important institution that will be implemented by child advocates in the volunteer network. They will offer professional assistance, including psycho-social assistance to children, discussions about their wishes, feelings. These are the key things. Sorry I'm running out of time, we could talk about this a lot. We are talking a lot about these problems at the Commission on Petitions on human rights violations. I also believe that we will talk a lot about this when we consider the Ombudsman's report, which we will most likely consider in the autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mrs Teja Ljubič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, there are many children in our country who are also victims of disorderly relationships between parents. Unfortunately, they are often abused and manipulated. This is all regrettable. However, I do not believe that any state institution can solve this problem in such a way. That there will be some officials there, some saints who will write reports that will deal with it. I don't believe that. However, I think it is right that we have this institution, but this institution must not be extended to some wide institution that will employ people who need jobs and who will not serve their original purpose. I think we would do more in the sense that young parents are actually more prepared to be brought up, to be married. This is absolutely lacking in Slovenia. It's absolutely lacking. Young parents today face major challenges: jobs are difficult, they have little time for children, they are always in a hurry, and so on. In short, to work harder to make our businesses more friendly to our families, to look for new opportunities in this respect, to give more advice to young couples about education, mutual relations and so on. While some public administrations will write some reports to determine the facts, then the state will not take measures to address the reasons for these reports, I do not think they will bring much success. So I object to this expansion, this increase, the multiplication of employed people who are going to do this professionally, because I think that with children, with parents, there are people working with families who have experience in this area who know how to advise people who know how to help people. Not those who will write reports that ultimately have only the value of the report but do not solve the underlying problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Teja Ljubič has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mrs. Teja Ljubic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u88	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Allow me to begin with the constitutional arrangements themselves. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia gives the Ombudsman the position of constitutional category. This gives the Ombudsman a special position, meaning and only weight. The Ombudsman, however, somehow cannot be placed in part of the power mechanism, but rather in some form of anti-government. Because it essentially limits its will, i.e. the will of power, the interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Ombudsman also does not have direct powers in the field of his activities to act in some way, but acts in some informal way and essentially draws his authority out of his reputation and also from the position he has in society. Perhaps a question could be raised at this point whether it would not be possible to change smart arrangements in this direction in order for the Ombudsman to adopt measures that would actually be binding, because, as we know, the Ombudsman is now making recommendations. Another question may also be whether this would really achieve the desired effect and thus strengthen the Ombudsman’s authority. In fact, my opinion here is that what matters most is what the individual addressee has to do with such a recommendation or action. If the addressee does not respect the individual measure, even if it is binding on him, we have achieved nothing by doing so. It is particularly important here whether such non-compliance with certain measures is followed by sanctions. If possible, just in case here, I'll point out the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court Act, if I am not mistaken, makes it clear in Article 3 that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding. Then look at what's going on in practice. In fact, in its annual reports, the Constitutional Court points to the issue of non-execution and non-compliance with its decisions each year. Not to mention here, I'm not going into what happened to the deleted. What's the problem here? In fact, the Constitutional Court does not have any sanctions if its decisions are not implemented. As in practice the term is repeatedly used, in fact the Constitutional Court here is a toothless tiger. In view of the above, everything always depends on the relationship of the individual addressee, how and whether he will respond to the Ombudsman’s individual measures if they were binding. It's actually a culture, if you want political culture. In fact, the most important novelty, as has already been said on several occasions today, is that this proposal essentially allows the Ombudsman to gain A status under the Paris Principles on the status of State institutions for human rights in 1993. In the beginning, the guard actually signed himself up for status B. Why? Because, on the one hand, he did not have human resources, and on the other hand, he also had a problem with funding itself. In fact, the Ombudsman will be given a mixed mandate with the proposed novel. On the one hand, it acts as a classic parliamentary ombudsman and, on the other hand, its mandate extends to the performance of general tasks in the field of human rights protection. This means that the Ombudsman will be able to carry out wider analyses, assessments of the situation in particular areas. It should be borne in mind that for many years the Ombudsman has in his annual recommendations pointed out the shortcomings with regard to the absence of a state institution that would meet the conditions for granting status A in accordance with the Paris principles. All these annual reports, which also contain recommendations, have been adopted on several occasions by the Government and concrete measures towards their implementation so far, unfortunately, have not been taken. Obviously there has not been any political will so far, so I am particularly glad that this political will has finally been found in this place. What seems particularly important to me in the proposal for a new law is that there is an additional protection of the rights of one of the most vulnerable groups, namely children. Therefore, a system of child protection is being established which will operate within the guardian's framework. At this point, I cannot pass without mentioning a pilot project entitled Advocate – the voice of a child carried out by the Ombudsman since 2007 and this project has actually shown that the presence of the advocate can have a positive impact on the course of events in the proceedings in which the child is involved or concerned. The purpose of the project is to actually help the child in proceedings before the authorities that he is heard and to ensure that he is able to participate in his or her decision-making on his or her fate, to familiarise him with all information, his or her options and choices. Given that the project has become very well established in practice, I am pleased that the proposed legal solutions will provide the project with a suitable legal basis for further action. Otherwise, our criminal and civil legislation already regulates the representation of children in judicial proceedings. Let me mention only family disputes, where children seem to be the most exposed in some way, so psychologically, emotionally, it's even worse if parents fight each other on their shoulders. In fact, children in these procedures have the opportunity to express their views themselves, but they can also express their views by someone they trust and choose for themselves. In our system, however, there is some legal void in the advocacy of children in out-of-court proceedings or in the provision of professional assistance to the child to express his opinion in all the procedures and matters in which he is involved. I therefore welcome here that this legal void with the proposed novelty is now being filled. If you allow me, I can only end by saying that I am truly glad that the political will has finally been found, that the Ombudsman will finally be able to obtain the conditions for granting status A in accordance with Parisian principles, and that the children will be allowed in all procedures and matters to defend or offer professional assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today's debate is really about two things. Regardless of the fact that we have a lot of mouthfuls of human rights, each one actually interprets them in his own way and interprets them in the way he sees them or a particular interested group when dealing with a particular problem. Secondly, instead of discussing how we are going to move forward, we are once again raising only a question at some personal level, who is actually capable of actually exercising human rights in this country. Let me mention at the outset that in the exercise and exercise of human rights, we are primarily responsible for all of us as individuals, then, in the first place, the State, says the Government, which has the power, which has the power and also implements certain policies, that someone has to keep an eye on this issue, but it is more than clear that we are talking about the institutions that are set up to do so. Is the institution we have today being refined? Of course not. It is only a fact that the moment of assessment or determination of the status of the Ombudsman will be given that the Ombudsman was, in fact, classified in status B in 2008 and later by the confirmation of 2010, which clearly speaks of the fact that it is not a complete institution as envisaged by the other criteria in order to meet the conditions for status A. Are we satisfied with the work of the Ombudsman today? Personally, I can argue that, because from year to year, it proves that it is actually more and more fulfilling its role as the Ombudsman. With annual reports that are increasingly accurate and more extensive, it points out all the details that we either see or do not want to see or explain in our own way. This is a key problem why the Ombudsman himself estimated that the time has come for us to come to status A. It is obvious that the Government, as the biggest human rights violator, is actually playing a double role here, I find it pointless here, because today we are talking about a bill proposed by the Government. It wasn't suggested by someone else, someone X, Y. More. It provides a series of certain solutions, which are appropriate with a decision on how to resolve this issue in the case of Slovenia in the light of its organisation and the needs we have in Slovenia. The possibility could be different. It would also be possible for the Government to establish a specific institution or pool the human resources potentials from different sources, but today we have a decision on the table that I think is good and that it provides in particular what is the common objective. Let me stress that the common objective is to increase the power of the institution of someone who warns and makes recommendations to those who eventually have the opportunity to achieve as little as possible and prevent human rights violations by amending legislation or by modifying certain procedures. That seems like a key story to me. However, I must point out from the outset that I am terribly disappointed today because I am listening to some people, actually speaking vehemently only about the fact that staff employment will not solve human rights violations. On the finger, banally speaking, I can agree with that in principle. But we're not hiring people in a state apparatus, we're hiring people in an independent body. This is very important. This independence is always problematic when we want to implement it. Independence is not that we give something to someone, and then we expect it and even define ourselves with sentences, as I have listened to them today. The Ombudsman does not meet the expectations of those who assess this report. That sounds like an alarming sentence to me. What are these expected goals? That's what I really want to hear. Although today we had the opportunity to hear some debates in this direction when they mentioned only certain segments of interest where human rights are being violated. At the same time, they warn that human rights are being violated in the area of motherhood, family, and I do not know where else. On the other hand, I wonder whether this political struggle is really so important, especially at a time when we are considering such a law that we must always talk on the basis of an ideological definition of how we assess the work of the Ombudsman. Today we have listened to the presentation of the parliamentary groups and how they view the law itself and also indirectly assess the work of individual bodies, in this case the Ombudsman. I can say nothing new to me. I don't even remember the Ombudsman with whom the SDS Group would ever be pleased. To this day, she has not been satisfied with anyone, for to this day no human rights guardian has ever achieved their goals. And, God forbid you ever do! But not only from the SDS, but from any political party, not from the SMC, not from Desus, not to list all the present ones who are sitting in Parliament today. This is not the job of the Ombudsman. However, some still imagine that the task of human rights is to advertise only in individual cases, individuals who are at risk and so on. I'm not even going to go any further, because everyone knows each other more or less in this move. The biggest problem is, and we have proven this in the history of adopting our legislation, it can also say, the constitution that whenever we talk about adopting such important acts, we always begin to personalise the matter. Remember, when we adopted the Constitution, it was very important what role the President of the Republic of Slovenia would play, and no one was hiding where the problem really was. The problem was in the name and surname of the then future candidate and then the two-time President of the Republic of Slovenia. If not for this candidate, but for someone else, I imagine theoretically, we would probably have a completely different Constitution today and finally have the powers that the President of the Republic of Slovenia should actually have in some normal democratic societies. Today, when it is gone, we are discussing several times in this direction. When we talk about individual laws, there is always a question at the personal level. Remember when we talked about an advocate of equality, we listened to discussions from the opposition that we do not really need such an advocate to carry out this task already by the Ombudsman, what we are complicating, to do some additional procedures. However, they forgot or purposefully left out that the advocate was dealing with other things that the Ombudsman could not actually deal with under his or her powers and powers. That he's also doing inspection and stuff. Not to speak in all other cases. Today I must say that I was surprised by the debate of colleague Eva Irgle in her position when she had it, and she even went so far as to assess the individual representatives of the independent authorities. It assessed what policy options they are from only at the cost of explaining how to discredit in advance how the world will be made up. This seems to me to be an extremely insurmountable approach when we talk about legislation that will apply in the future, for anyone who will occupy the city either in the world or as the Ombudsman. Only in this way can we reach a serious discussion to find out what is right and what is wrong. We should also talk about the fact that if we want to have a strong and independent institution, we should ask ourselves, because some talk mainly about why, in fact, the Ombudsman makes recommendations for human rights, if no one respects them. I must say that I cannot agree with this mainly because all governments have so far been more or less criticised whenever a report of the Ombudsman came forward and then next year we listened and read the report and found out whether or not the recommendation was met. In 2015, this government introduced a new culture in this way and led to the issue of specific reports on the implementation of the Ombudsman’s annual report or recommendations. I can only mention the following. According to the last report authorities themselves, the report for 2015, which was discussed, refers to the following data: 20 recommendations have been implemented, 30 recommendations have been partially implemented, a constant task of recommendations – 18, rejection of the implementation due to non-conformity and also partial – 8, also partially – 8 and thus all written interpretations across individual ministries, where they have also explained why and what recommendations have not been or what else to be achieved in order to be implemented, and some also in the context of why they cannot actually be implemented. This seems to me essential progress and also the assistance of the Ombudsman to be able to respond properly if he disagrees with such responses to the Government, which seems to me to be a great deal of progress. Why establish the world, why even gain the A status of the Ombudsman? Because he'll have more weight. It will acquire a seat and participate in the organs, which will have a significant weight for our country and for every time. When the Ombudsman speaks in the UN and in the Council, this has a completely different connotation than if he cannot do so. Of course, we have another human rights problem. We only talk about specific cases all the time, but we do not talk about human rights policies, and this is a key problem. We can't just talk about individual problems, but far from trying to discredit individual cases. Not at all. Far from it. However, if we want to solve individual cases, then we also need to have policies on general topics and areas very clearly worked out. However, the Ombudsman with today's powers, despite the fact that colleague Hanžek discussed in his presentation that the Ombudsman had no success, since the constant government, in particular mentioning our government, violated those rights, seems to me to be somewhat overly overly overly concerned. Here's what I'm gonna do. Tell me about it. But you know, human rights are not only when you are a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is the right of every human being and his being when he is in this space. The Ombudsman cannot deal with rights beyond our borders, but he can deal with all the human rights enjoyed by all those in our space: from refugees to migrants, not least those who have been erased. In fact, some people like to keep it quiet and forget that these people have human rights. I am talking mainly about critics or critics, those who today say they will not support this law today and do not support this new institutional role that the Ombudsman would acquire by means of this law. Why are there no binding recommendations? It is very important that the recommendations, when implemented, can only be very well implemented when both the authorities and the people are insided and implemented. But it is up to us to decide for ourselves and to adopt the relevant legislation ourselves and to correct the injustices and to prevent the possibility of them coming to us. And not the other way around. The Ombudsman was not elected in regular parliamentary or any other elections, but was elected within the National Assembly. He is not a representative of the people, but he is a representative of the protection, a true special institution that protects and warns about the irregularities that occur in human rights themselves. We have a problem when we say that we do not respect the Ombudsman's recommendation. The National Assembly will first have to define itself, particularly to critics who criticise when we cannot unify ourselves on certain issues, when they should be adopted and are binding on us when the Constitutional Court adopts a decision and we still do not respect it and we still do not change it or regulate it properly in our legislation. We have a problem with something else, not just the recommendations themselves. Then there's this plurality problem that some people just don't understand. Today, we have the Ombudsman and his assistants and the institution as organised as we have it. With new bodies within the Ombudsman, we also receive some pluralism. However, the problem is that the opposition sometimes imagines that plurality means balance. I'm sorry, there's no balance in human rights. This is about whether human rights are violated or not. And that's what you have to do once and for all, and I'm going to repeat it through, out of my head. Just remember the case when we had an investigative commission and we were dealing with extremism, immediately the opposition defended that there was also left-wing extremism, because someone mentioned that right-wing extremism was on the scene. Well, I gave this just to compare how some imagine balancing treatment when we have a human rights problem. Finally, let me mention what is essential to me. The law does not limit that it will not be possible to establish certain services within government departments in future that will allow for the prevention and protection of human rights within public services. Absolutely not. Let me also point out, Republic of Slovenia, the country is the one, so it is with me and the Government and all stakeholders that we are going to lay the foundations and organisation as we think it is right. I am sure that the new law, followed by comments from different stakeholders – remember that we do not yet have an opinion or legal service, as well as other non-governmental sectors, civil society, will come forward and tell us how they see this problem – this will only be the way to improve the law. This will give us a strong, independent institution of the Ombudsman, which, regardless of the name and surname of who will lead it, can even better oppose or defend those rights whose rights are now full of mouths, but only and most often for political purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u91	Mrs. Eva Irgle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the introduction to the slightly longer position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, I have made very clear and precise what we believe about the proposed solutions, which are actually two within this Ombudsman Act: to enable the Ombudsman to gain status A in accordance with the Parisian principles, so far it has been considered that Slovenia has status B, as well as 6 other Member States of the European Union, but now we want to change this into status A, where the country would have significantly more rights in particular when deciding at some UN meetings, so far only observers have been in status B. Here let me make it clear that if colleague Möderndorfer may not have understood, we do not object in the Slovenian Democratic Party to the fact that status B becomes status A. We have never opposed it. We believe that given the status of A countries, such as Denmark, Finland, France, Croatia already, Germany, Hungary, Greece, Ireland, these efforts must be made to change this with us. However, respectable colleague Möderndorfer, we have extremely serious problems with this way of forming the Council and the Centre for Human Rights. And I've already told you why. Even because of the environment in which we are politically, if you want, socially, we can rightly believe and believe that this body will act politically. That is why I have worked out exactly what are the members who will appoint a 14-member session to the Council. Because they're politically profiled people. And, excuse me, according to Parisian principles, such an authority should act in accordance with justice, plurality and independence. But I'm afraid that won't be the case. This is what I personally want. I have already said in the position of the Group of Members that, in fact, I would like to see status A, as it is formed in other Member States that have such a form of protection of human rights in state institutions, actually constitute an increase in the protection of human rights. There's no way to argue with that. I actually want the protection of human rights to be increased here, but I fear that it will not be so for already known reasons. And I'm not going to repeat who the members of this world should be, because I told them in the introductions. But respected colleagues and colleagues, human rights are constantly being tested, especially in those countries that have come out of such a regime that has gravely violated human rights. One such country is Slovenia. We have been making such a formal transition to democracy, but we have not done all the tasks that we should have at the time when it was time to do so. We have indeed laid some legal foundations for human rights, legal foundations through the writing constitution, the Majnik Declarations, and then in the form of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as the highest legal act. Or, in fact, we do so in a way that is the legal basis, and that is another question. As an opposition Member, as well as as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, I have a duty to draw attention to the traps that appear within such a law. This is the sole purpose of this debate today. But no one opposes the acquisition of A status. We oppose or have major problems with the creation of a world and a centre for human rights. No one will convince me that people who have quite a political pedigree have run on different client lists, now acting as independent of different functions, from advocate of the principle of equality to others. Unfortunately, I must say that I do not believe that they will actually act independently and in accordance with some plurality. What I personally expect when we make a law like this is that we always have justice before us. Is it fair that when we talk about human rights violations also on the Commission for Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, coalition Members, in particular those coming from the Modern Centre Party, because they have the highest quota, are repeatedly obstructed because they are not able to take an argument against other arguments. And they always say it's a political session, although we've proven several times that it's simply human rights violations and that someone has to be alerted. Many people turn to me and say that they feel like second-rate citizens because they are not taken seriously by the institutions of this country. They don't even get the answers to the questions they've been asked. What is this other than some kind of ignorance that happens by institutions? I am convinced that such things, such formations of some authorities, which are likely to work politically, will not solve the areas of human rights violations. From now on, the newly formed institution of the Ombudsman should monitor the situation of respect for or violation of human rights in a broader sense, which should now be the purpose of the Human Rights Council and the Centres for Human Rights. He should have done it by now, but he doesn't. I agree with that. It's not working. But the guardian has four deputies, and each one covers his own territory. Many times it will happen, now that I have repeatedly made this public, that the guardian and the deputies have not been able to attend meetings before we have pointed out the very grave violations of human rights. And this is where we're talking about it. It's a practice. If you're setting this up because of a theory or I don't know what it is, then it's a practice. [[…]] It's a practice. I'm talking about a practice that's not good and it's right to draw attention to that. Everyone should be interested, however, in improving the human rights situation, in walking together on a path that will lead to greater respect for human rights and also to the real rule of law. Today, however, we have the rule of law as a whole on an extremely great test, although the Constitution states that the state of Slovenia is a social and legal state. Yeah, that's what it says. On a declaration level. What about the truth? This could be discussed long and wide. I think it was right for us in the Slovenian Democratic Party to call for a general debate on this law, because we believe that even before the mother's working body, where we will go more precisely through the proposal of the law to draw attention to some things, even to the fact that certain NGOs have said that they had little time to make concrete and qualitative comments on the law itself. Especially the part about child support. I myself have participated in many discussions in previous years on the so-called pilot project Advocate – the voice of the child and, of course, I support it. I support him. Now this is changing within the guardian into an institution of advocacy, but there is also a need to listen to those who are dealing with this area and perhaps to come up with a better common solution within this. But it's important that he settles down. However, the Ministry of Justice must also listen to some of the comments and ideas that have been given. I'm not gonna go after them, because at this point, I don't think there's room for that. The Ministry of Justice has received these comments. I don't know if they're all justified either, but I think it's best that we pay them some attention before we continue to address this very important topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u93	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u94	Dear colleague Eva Irgle. Of course, you misunderstood me or misinterpreted me. I wasn't talking about whether you agree with A or B, but it's true that I didn't name anyone, so I'm gonna do it now. I was talking about New Slovenia. I highlighted you in the part where I mentioned that in fact you were already in some way politically trying to disqualify individual bodies who would be proposing within the bill as saying they would propose candidates for members of the world. That's what I'm talking about. My colleague Eva Irgle, how do you know who's going to be a member of the world, but if this world isn't, there's no law yet. We don't even know if it's gonna be organized like this. That's the first one. It's the other way around. As President of the Commission on Human Rights, you know that one of the fundamental human rights is also the right to political participation. Who, though, can stop whom from taking political action? The fact is that the law defines – that there will be no misunderstanding – that the proposer, in this case the individual institutes will propose from among their employees, not themselves. However, you have previously disqualified the individuals who are performing today, and perhaps when the call comes out, they will no longer perform this function and some other people will be there. This seems a little premature to me today. But I agree with your last part when you said today was the time to talk about changing this law. We ourselves expect to be on the committee, as I said, along with the Legislative and Legal Service and the other stakeholders who will give and have already given and some will make their comments, the Ministry will have to prepare appropriate answers to these questions. In this part, however, I absolutely agree. You know, this A or B status has now been very clearly denied by the New Slovenia Group, which says that it does not support any change at all, even more, says that it is a matter of ordinary employment. Finally, I will conclude that I am also interested in whether a proposal for a financial structure, financial implications, will be broken down. I am convinced that when we adopted the law, we made one terrible mistake. We've estimated that the defendant will be able to work with 250,000 euros. But we're already giving a million to the guardian institute, which we're just spreading a little bit. That seems disproportionate to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u95	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u96	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! After a general discussion, I can conclude that I am optimistic about the further fate of this law in the National Assembly. Despite some of the more personal or politically colored locksmiths and oppositions, the law has received what I have seen in most of the opposition, which is some principled support for such solutions, not everywhere, but, above all, two key solutions, namely the acquisition of status A in Paris. I am grateful that the debate also made clear what this means, because we are not doing it to win a competition, A, B, C, but the content behind it. And with regard to child support. I am also pleased that after 23 years we have brought this change of law to Parliament. As has been said many times today, this could be done differently. There are a number of possible solutions, but for 23 years these solutions have not been coordinated enough to reach the National Assembly. Today is the solution on the table. This solution is based on a clear need for us to do so, as we say, not for the sake of others, but for ourselves. We have been alerted to this solution — for reasons of foreign origin — for years by various international institutions and control mechanisms. This solution is prepared on the basis of good foreign practices, taking into account the smallness of Slovenia, because we cannot just work new and new institutions. This solution is in line with the institution of the Ombudsman, which is run by a rare person who must obtain a two-thirds majority in order to occupy this town. This solution, according to so-called 70% of the opposition and position, nevertheless represents a step forward. As a matter of fact, this is the first reading. We'll have committees, we'll have opinions from the Legal and Legislative Service. Further questions can be addressed in this section. At least as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, we are open to dialogue. Even if we are based on the principle of constructiveness that we have talked about today. I'd only touch two more things that were particularly problematic. One is the composition of the world. We absolutely share the same goal that such a world must be as plural and politically independent as possible. But the fact is, people need to be gathered. People don't come from Mars and so on. The proposal, which is here, consists of five members of civil society, experts appointed by the Ombudsman. Others are appointed by individual institutions, as Member Möderndorfer said very nicely in the last debate. This is not about these officials; it is about employees in two institutions dealing with a narrower area of human rights themselves – an information officer with a right to privacy, an advocate of equality with a prohibition of discrimination. Then there are the proponents, as you can see inside, including the National Assembly, the State Council and the Government. If you have a better proposal, we're ready to talk about it. However, it is necessary to know what the goal is to be pursued and that people should not come from anywhere and that it is not possible to label them in advance by ad hominem in one way or another. That's the first thing. Second thing. I'd like to point out that this isn't about jobs. The financial implications and dynamics of employment are clearly defined. However, if necessary, we will complement this on the committee itself in assessing the financial implications of the draft state budget law. More precisely than in many of the proposals that this or some other government sends to the National Assembly, where many times, we all know that the law has no financial implications. We're all guilty here. This law in this part accurately divides money, how much money, what kind of money. It's not official service as such. Now let's say. Children's advocate. We're talking about three extra jobs over time. This will not be the case for people who work directly with children, because if you read the law, it says that the child protection system is being set up on the basis of a 10-year good practice where voluntary advocates of children who must be experts in this area who must want to do so, who are not employed by the Ombudsman, who are connected with the Ombudsman, must participate in education, training, must be unpunished and so on. These three jobs will only allow for a forum for coordination of a larger number and for the regular functioning of this advocacy. By the way, since the colleague is here, it's very fair to say that this has been funded by the Ministry of Labour and Family for 10 years. This will now be financed by the Ombudsman, who has a separate budget. However, as far as employment is concerned, we make it very clear in the bill itself that three new jobs will take place for 6 months in 2018 when the centre and the world will be established. In fact, it was neither an institution nor an institution, there is no way we can talk about any greed. Maybe just a whistle. Since the resources for the operation, for the establishment of this work, were not already provided in the budget of the Ombudsman as an institution, since the law has only now come, but not at the time of the budget, a solution has been adopted by the Government on our initiative, which very often comes to the fore. And that is that every minister and minister, every department has given up a proportionate proportion of its budget so that these institutions can be established. Out of respect for the institution and from the knowledge that the Ombudsman works horizontally and intersectorally. So much for these financial things. And one last thing. I am aware that this law will not solve all the problems or most of the problems that individuals face in relation to human rights violations in the Republic of Slovenia. It will not address the non-responsibility of the state authorities, although it has been highlighted here on several occasions, it has been greatly strengthened under this government. We go through all the recommendations every six months. This is led by the Ministry of Justice, since the amendment of the Law on State Administration passed to the Ministry of Justice, we have voluntarily committed ourselves to twice a year to go to the Government, this has been published publicly and can be criticised, while it is also a pressure to do better. We are preparing and coordinating the response report with the other resources. The envisaged response report to this year's Ombudsman report is expected to be adopted at the last meeting of the Government before parliamentary holidays, which means, six months or almost one year earlier than any report on the Ombudsman, and will also help you when you discuss the Ombudsman's report itself in the autumn. So this is where we move things in a positive direction. However, this is not a magic wand that would solve the human rights problem in the Republic of Slovenia, far from that. At the same time, however, it is not a waste of money on the sides, and we are absolutely convinced of that, but it means strengthening an institution that is extremely important and constitutionally commanded, a mandated body of informal control over the work of the executive and legislative branches of government. In any case, we do a lot for the people, and for the children in general, for the sake of advocacy. I look forward to the debate on the Committee and later in Parliament. I hope I will not be too pessimistic to say that this is a proposal that will experience more than just coalition support at the time of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u97	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. That is why I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting’s timetable tomorrow, 22. 6. In the context of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is firstly a bill on amendments to the Social Security Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the 52 Members and Members of Parliament, firstly signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, namely the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u98	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! Six months after the Ministry of Public Affairs submitted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection Act last December 22nd, we present a novelty to you Members. In the meantime, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has carried out a number of activities and has included all stakeholders, including professionals, local communities and trade unions in the preparation of the new Social Protection Act. The profession, trade unions and the Council of State have expressed support for the proposed reform concept. At the Ministry, we believe that the new law provides a good substantive basis for reforming social work centres. In your consideration of supporting the law, I would like to highlight in particular the repeated failed attempts of reform so far. This is a change in the network of 62 centres for social work, which has not been changed in the last 25 years, although in the meantime they have significantly increased and substantially changed the tasks of social work centres. The main objectives of the reorganisation are to unify part of the centres for social work, simplify administrative procedures and thus relieve professional workers, which will result in more opportunities for professional work and efficiency. The reorganisation of social work centres will also bring the services of the centres closer to the users. The key point is that 62 units of social work centres remain the main institution of social policy in the local environment. It is stipulated by law that units carry out professional tasks. The reorganisation, however, brings several social work centres together to the social work centre, which will cover a larger territorial area. 16 centres for social work are foreseen. For the whole area, management and management shall take place in one place. However, the Director shall be responsible for the organisation and management of the professional work and the operations of social work centres. Within each of the 16 social work centres, there will be a common general service covering accounting, administrative tasks, legal and human resources services. A common professional service and a decision-making unit on public funds will be set up at the Social Work Area Centres. In fact, we are centralising only administrative and general services and, above all, it is important to reduce the administrative burden of social work centres by separating a unit that will decide on one year's rights, while all professional work will take place in units, i.e. existing centres for social work. However, this will increase the mobility of the professional staff in order to facilitate the provision of multidisciplinary treatment of the most difficult cases, which are unfortunately increasingly common. For 16 areas, it will be much easier to provide existing staff with greater expertise in dealing with the most challenging cases. It is also important that this foundation, which is before you today, speaks of an organisational change in social work centres, which, as I said, is a good basis for reorganising the work of social work centres. Remember, however, that important processes are also social activation, which means active social policy, programmes to address the social problem of long-term recipients of financial social assistance, on the one hand, and probably the most important project to introduce an information decision on year-on-year rights, which will significantly burden the centres for social work of this administrative work, and also by this reorganisation we physically separate it. In all of these debates, we have looked for a very broad social consensus, and especially with local communities, because we are aware that the social work centres are the country's institutions, but they are the key and must work in the local environment and solve the social problem that is in the local environment. Therefore, there are several guardians in the law that have been agreed so as not to break the network, which often follows the example of Furs, Gurs and other reorganisations that we have already had within the country. Here I stress that social work centres are public welfare institutions organised in accordance with the Institutes Act and on the basis of the Social Protection Act and cannot be compared with the administrative units or units of Fursa or Gursa, so that this transformation process is significantly different. Even in this story, the guardians, that would not happen – which I believe is our common wish – to undermine this exposure and the possibility of people accessing social work centres, are also expected to play the role of the National Assembly for three years to report on the network and the effectiveness of this network. But I look forward to today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. All present, very welcome! The reorganisation of social work centres has been discussed for a long time. In May 2013, the Minister announced in her statement to the public that the reorganisation pilot project would start in the second half of 2013 and that the reorganisation of social work centres would be carried out in early 2015. Today we are in the middle of 2017 and nothing has happened in this area until today. Also from the law before us today, the Social Protection Act, which you refer to as a necessity to start reorganisation of social work centres, does not make it clear that reorganisation is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Labour. The entry into force of the law, according to the content before us, you place it in the second half of 2018, which means that you are moving the reorganisation into a government that will come after you, which is not a new practice. Remember Svetlik's 2010 law, which abolished state pensions and added property records to the recipients of the protective allowance. This law also entered into force during the second government. In view of the many years of speaking and preparing for the reorganisation, we ask ourselves how it is possible for the Ministry of Labour to take so long, even though the Minister, before the beginning of this term at the hearing session, has ensured that this is one of the priorities of this government. If this were really the priority of this government and the current Minister of Labour, the reorganisation would be completed by now. In the past year, the Minister also replied to one of my questions concerning the reorganisation of social work centres that most of the work related to the reorganisation will take place in 2017. Unfortunately, this year too, this will obviously not happen. Reorganisation is certainly not an easy project. However, reorganisations are something that is constantly taking place in large companies. According to the number of employees, they exceed the number of employees at the Ministry and at social work centres. There is simply such a slow response, given market developments, they cannot afford. There's something different at the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry responds significantly too slowly to the needs of citizens, which, last but not least, is reflected in the abnormal number of complaints and the time needed to resolve them. Let us take a brief look at the content of the law before us. The bill brings some good solutions. As good in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess the crisis installation of an individual who urgently needs immediate assistance due to domestic violence or other circumstances that pose a direct threat; the conduct of an intervention service carried out on the basis of a police notification; the establishment of a coordination and assistance service for victims; the possibility of carrying out activities of social work centres also outside of business time in the case of urgent matters; the commission of a social inspector to prevent individual employees from doing so if there is a recurring danger, such as issuing individual acts, deciding on individual measures, and may propose the initiation of a procedure for the discharge of the director and assistant, and the initiation of a procedure to withdraw the termination of the concession contract; the three-year report of the Government to the National Council on the effectiveness of social work centres. However, we can see that the remaining content is far from the long-awaited reform of social work centres, which is also essential to ensuring an effective social state. The bill is supposed to constitute a reorganisation of social work centres, but unfortunately this is not the case, as it introduces only a legal and legal basis for each government, by regulation, to establish social work centres, areas of operation and regional units of social work centres. Instead of the substantive and organisational solutions for the reorganisation of social work centres today, we are discussing the centralisation of social work centres and the structure of social work centres, which will depend on every political will and can be subject to continuous change, even greater political staffing and potentially also the interruption of the continuous work of individual centres and units within social work centres. Such a merger of social work centres means a merger without criteria and without criteria that would be specified in this law. What exactly and how such integration would improve the provision of social services, including from the material to the proposal for a law, is not clear. In recent years we have been approached by several users of social services with complaints about the work of social work centres. None complained of being disturbed by a decentralised organisation or by an organisational structure at all. In which larger centres or smaller centres will social work centres be allocated, users of social services are not interested. All they want to know is whether they will be dealt with in a timely and fair manner. From this point of view, we cannot say that this law contributes in any way to improving the quality of social treatment. Above all, we are concerned about the transitional provisions which may constitute the definitive politicisation of social work centres, as all the sacred centres for social work will be dissolved and will be established at new centres representing the Joint Centres under the rule to be established by the Founder, namely the Government. The officials of the Joint Centres for Social Work will be appointed by the Government without invitation to tender until the appointment of the new directors of these so-called Joint Centres for Social Work, without the deadline for the appointment of directors with a full mandate. It is also possible to note a number of comments from social work centres that the majority of employees in the centres with the proposed method of so-called reorganisation disagree or even oppose it. An information decision is a change that can be regarded as positive. Of course, we ask ourselves whether it will actually bring as much administrative work as they promise at the Ministry. Basically, the data will still have to be entered manually. We can also hear a lot of critical thinking about the area of social activation, where it is intended to spend €40 million on people who are long-term dependent on social transfers, and it is unclear how many of these people can actually be employed after almost one year of training. The human resources sub-nutrition of social work centres has been mentioned for a long time. In view of the law before us, we can only promise 16 new directors of the newly created centres, who, as we have already pointed out, can be politically staffed, as the Minister agrees to appoint them. In the light of past experience, we fear that political adequacy will again precede the professional competence of the candidates, which has taken place too often under the auspices of the current Minister in the past. It is also a strange decision by the Ministry that social activists, who will be a few over 50, will be employed by the Ministry of Labour and not be transferred to social work centres until 2021. Even in this area, we cannot talk about human resources strengthening social work centres. Last but not least, no one has dealt more specifically with disabled workers to date. Many people have really great limitations at work, but on the other hand, they have the will to work and want to work. Many have overcome serious diseases and re-involvement in the work process would be a great solution for them, both from a social and a financial point of view. This is a group of people who have to survive from 200 euros a month. Despite individual good solutions to the law in the first reading, we cannot support it for the reasons just stated. We will, however, follow in particular the statements and views of those affected by such centralisation of services in the course of the legislative process. These are not only employees at social work centres, but mainly beneficiaries of social services. On this basis, we will also decide whether to support or not to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u101	Mr Franc Trček will apologize, Mr Jurša, Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. [[…]] I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yeah, I'm sorry about that lapsus. The first centres in our country, formerly joint, were established 50 years ago, and this means that the state of Slovenia would in some way be a very social state, if measured according to these criteria and criteria. It is not good, however, that the organization itself and the way it has been working has not, until now, practically not been updated at all. While the centres were getting new and new tasks, both by the state and by the local communities, the experts started to deal with paperwork, while the field work was being neglected in some way or in some way, and therefore, according to the Desus Group, the question is how long we are a social state today. It is not enough for citizens and citizens who need such or other assistance only in the constitution, by law and on the paper of a decision, to be granted some rights and to send them home in a blue envelope. These people in the vast majority need a different approach — a genuine contact with someone who is qualified to help is worth more than a thousand decisions. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we agree that in some way it is necessary to reorganise social work centres, because we have, in the past, been rightly critical, as demonstrated by the uneven practice of the centres and ultimately by many, more media-exposed cases, which have been quite significant in recent times. The Minister says that preparations for the reorganisation of social work are more than ten years ago and that now the time has finally come and even the last moment to modernise the centres is threatening social work in our country of collapse. Alone and my fellow Members, we do not fully believe that this is true. It is a reorganisation and it is not necessary for the quality of services to be even better. It seems to us that the restructuring plan is somehow appropriate, as it relieves social workers from their long-term administrative work and sends them back to people in some way. Therefore, the urgent employment of new people, not just the burden of red tape workers, has been done. When we are in the workforce, we are immediately asked how many additional jobs of experts will be carried out on the ground. When we look at the comparison between the other European countries, on average there are thousands of 851 social workers per 100,000 people. With us, where there are two million of us and something else, there are a thousand 900 employees at social work centres. It is heard that 20 new experts and 62 trainees will be hired. Of these twenty new jobs there will be sixteen directors of newly created centres and 62 trainees per trainee per unit of the centre. Will that be enough to bring social work closer to our people? I don't think so. Will we be able to address human resources malnutrition and the accumulation of procedures to the extent that a person who needs the help of a social work centre will be able to approach a staff member at any time without the time being announced and receive appropriate assistance or advice immediately? I'm afraid not. In Desus, we have been through all public debate and coalition coordination on the law sceptictically to the proposed solutions regarding the organisation also at the point of autonomy and autonomy of the centres. I have always opposed the fact that units are subject to legal personality because the entire network will be managed from sixteen centres, but the needs of the field or smaller local communities are not well known. My fear, as well as most of my colleagues and, of course, my fellow Members' group, is cautious. It comes mainly from past experience, when some authorities are in state administrations, for example, the tax office has since disappeared from smaller places. They are forecasting and are already moving from administrative units and are also forecasting moving from the courts. That's why we think this risk is even greater here. Centralization's never been able to handle anything good. We know that from our past history. I sincerely fear that even a legal provision that the Government could otherwise have to report to the National Assembly every three years on the effectiveness of the operations of the district centres and units of the centres does not mean that, in time, the local centres will not begin to close. Regardless of the position just said, which of course sounds rather negative, Members and Members of our parliamentary group will today support this bill and forward it to the National Assembly for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u103	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u104	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague, welcome! So there is a law before us that will enable us to launch organisational reorganisation of social work centres in the first step. Such a reorganisation will be the basis for the next step when the content and professional work of social work centres will be in line. According to lawmakers, however, the organisational changes we are beginning with this amendment will, to a certain extent, encourage the development of the profession and bring the work of the centres closer to the users. Why is the reorganisation even important? If we want to put the activities of the Centre for Social Work at a level where they can actually work for users, we need to approach this both organisationally and professionally. Social work centres are professional institutions that should focus primarily on preventing and supporting the resolution of social pressures and the problems of individuals, families and individual vulnerable groups. Unfortunately, too many times, it is obvious that the functioning of social work centres is too liberal and sad. According to the proposaler, in recent years the social problem in Slovenia has been growing due to the economic crisis; the number of recipients of social transfers and socially excluded people has been increasing, there have been completely new forms of addiction, there have been several forms of violence and other pressures and problems which are provided professional assistance and support within the public service network. The needs that are increasingly demanding, more numerous and new require a uniform, new, fast and effective way of action, which we need a modern social security system operating within the community. At the moment, we have 62 centres for social work, indicating their excessive fragmentation. These 62 centres are incompatible with each other, both according to the human resources structure, by the area they cover and by the tasks they perform. The draft law therefore provides that these existing 62 centres are to be merged under the roof of the newly established 16 regional units that are surrounded by territory by the scope of the tasks and the number of inhabitants of the area. This ensures that each of the 62 centres that will remain where they are, so that nothing changes from the point of view of access for the user, but will be more humanely diverse, as it will employ different professional profiles. This ensures a wider range of different staff, and the professional will no longer play a double role, which, in our view, will strengthen the user's confidence in his work. Professionals who are specialists in specific fields will finally be more involved in the work for which they specialize by reorganisation. The reorganisation of social work centres includes three related projects. Firstly, in addition to the new organisational structure of social work centres mentioned above, it will relieve the professionals of bureaucratic procedures and give them more time to work with people. Secondly, we also introduce an information decision based on an informational calculation of income, which simplifies procedures for the exercise of rights from public funds. Annual rights will be dealt with automatically and people will no longer have to apply every year. And a third of the measures in this law is the introduction of social activation, which will ensure a coordinated and integrated treatment of persons who are long-term unemployed, who are most at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The key objective of activation is to help long-term recipients of financial social assistance as comprehensively as possible and to train them for new employment. In our Group of Members, we believe that the bill is well prepared and, despite some of the political concerns of our colleagues, we will support it. The law is intended for the profession and the provision of professional work. It is precisely the profession that says that in the event of reorganisation they have cooperated well, that the profession has been properly included and heard. This further strengthens our conviction that marriage is well - prepared and necessary. Social Democrats will conclude that the proposal for the amendment of the Social Protection Act is suitable for further consideration, including support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u105	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. The main problem of social work centres is their human resources malnutrition and excessive, unevenly distributed work burden. However, the planned reorganisation will not reduce the scope of the work or provide new jobs. That's why we're being held in the United Left until the planned reorganization. But since we agree with the starting points and the purpose and the idea of separating administrative and legal procedures from professional and social work, we will not oppose the proposed amendment. We stress, however, that the proposed amendment comes too late because it will only be completed within the mandate of another government. Why too late, we can look back in 2012, when new social legislation was introduced and social work centres were already facing serious problems. They worked all day, even on Saturdays, to save large amounts of new deposits. The scope of the administrative documentation has increased dramatically, and there has been an extremely large, ultimately expected dissatisfaction between people and participants in this process. And this anger of all the people who were robbed who were at the social work center was, of course, particularly at the hearts of the employees. And they burn you up. Many hospital absences are observed because they are really unable to do such a pace as they have been in recent years. That this agony lasted so long or that it still lasted, is the directly responsible social democrats' team, which has feuded the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. As a whole of the public sector and other public institutions, CSD also hit savings through the ZUJF. The Minister argues that the reorganisation of social work centres will also solve the burning human resources crisis, which is far more important for CSD employees, but is rightly sceptical for many employees. In all, it is not an ambitious solution to the main problem, but it is indeed for a milder reconciliation of CSD, and also for the Minister's political points to be raised before the new national elections next year. It would be more difficult, but at the same time more just, to measure the actual workload of individual CSDs, this would be compared with each other, and standards and norms, and then appropriate human resources reinforcements would be sought from here on out. Both at the consultation and in response to our question, the Minister suggested that all of this should be measured and balanced once regional CSDs and reorganised units have been established. But, from the point of view of the rationality of the procedures, it would be much better if we first found out the actual situation and then acted on it, saying, we were going to reorganise. This is how they fear that the planned reorganisation will only take the first step. For the other one, the key one, the substantive one, it'll run out of time and possibilities. But it's the substantive changes that are necessary. Because if social work centres remain malnourished and their staff overloaded, quality work, regardless of all planned reorganisation, will simply be impossible. According to the applicant, the current proposal is intended to deal directly with the human resources supply situation, with all 26 existing centres remaining in the form of local units which will be entry points for all social rights, and with 16 regional units moving administrative affairs, common services and public rights enforcement units to relieve bureaucrats and allow them to focus more seriously on the work in the field and to focus on professional work. This is a very noble goal and a good purpose, but I fear that the current proposal cannot ensure this. It has not yet been decided how joint CSD services will be organised in relation to individual units or how the links between these units will work. As it is said, many of the staff at the centres are skeptical about this reorganisation and believe that they primarily need more professional workers in line with their standards and standards. Without real burdens and the necessary staffing changes, the planned reorganisation can be understood primarily as centralising the structure of institutions to facilitate administrative and political governance, which would ultimately be consistent with the operating mode and the political practice of the team at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs. The proposal introduces a new ministerial consensus institute in setting standards and standards. This opens up the possibility that each time a policy will be able to challenge the consensus of the standards, which are essential for the proper or fair human resources structure of CSD. And if they were previously subordinated to the Ministry of Justice by 62 directors, it will now be only 16. In doing so, the new composition of the Councils of Institutions retains the predominance of representatives of the Ministry in relation to representatives of employees and representatives of the local community. The ministry will still have an absolute majority in the world and the local communities will have about the same impact as before. In particular, they will be employed at the loss and therefore the proposed reorganisation also means the loss of employee participation in decision-making. The network should be designed to allow for two-way communication in the hierarchy. So it's not just a command from above down, it's the other way around. The anticipated composition of future CSD councils raises concerns in this regard, as well as the loss of the legal entity of the current CSD as future units to be established by a government regulation, because at this point it is completely unconscionable where and when these units will be organised at all. The theme of social protection and the social state is, of course, not limited to the human resources and organisational aspects of social work centres. The current government, the minister and this coalition acted strongly against the social situation in this mandate. While the richest 10 per cent were granted €80 million only through income leave, the Ministry is still avoiding the production of an estimate of the minimum cost of living, which is the basis for determining the amount of social assistance. This social assistance still lasts more than 300 euros below the poverty threshold and 93 euros below the latest estimate of the minimum cost of living, which, by the way, was incurred eight years ago. As a result of this delay, the socially most vulnerable population is affected. Our proposal that the child allowance should not be counted against the income of the family which provides for entitlement to social assistance has also been rejected. This means, in practice, that a number of families, including single parents in particular, are placed in a poor material situation and that the money intended to provide for the care and development of children is used instead to cover the common costs of families. To conclude, our authority is making every effort to rob the socially most exposed parts of the working class of rights and bargaining power because it would prevent them from rejecting the demeaning underpaid and laxative work in an increasingly segmented and dangerous labour market as they can now. Instead of solving the situation for the most vulnerable segments of the working class, the Ministry created this bad situation. Now, at the end of his term of office, he wants to publicly wash his bad conscience with the reorganisation project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u107	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u108	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! History seems to repeat itself. At the end of 2011, at the end of the mandate of the Government of Pahorje, the Ministry of Labour team led by Ivan Svetlik and the Secretary of State, Dr. Anje Kopač Dark, was infamous for failing to reform the exercise of rights from public funds. How much injustice and damage it has caused and is being corrected today! Let us only recall the withdrawal of state pensions from the many weakest. Minister Kopač Mrakova also seems to want to end her term of office in a similar way – with a sweeping announcement of the reform of the centres for social work. From past experience, we can now say that we will continue to correct it for years and years, and it is sad that the victims are likely never to receive reparations. The three main objectives of the proposed amendment of the Social Protection Act are set out by the proposers: firstly, social activation, secondly, information decision and thirdly, reorganisation of social work centres. After the first point, social activation, there are mainly 52 new jobs within the Ministry. We can see in the material that four will operate within the project unit of the Ministry and 48 will operate at social work centres. We ask the Christian Democrats, with whom will these 52 new employees have a contract of employment? With the Ministry, with the centres? The answer to these questions will tell us much about the real purpose of this point. In addition to the human resources issues, a funding plan is also questionable for social activation. From 2017 to 2022 as a pilot project through European funds and then from an integrated budget. However, it seems that the invitation to tender was so poorly prepared that there were almost no applications. In this way, the project cannot be successful. With regard to the information decision, Christian Democrats can say that they could only wish its introduction to be as successful as Bayuk's introduction of an informational calculation of income. Unfortunately, in the past experience, the Minister cannot be trusted like that. We are interested, however, in whether the information system of social work centres is ready, how many errors are foreseen in the calculations and, in particular, whether the Ministry is prepared to resolve complaints or objections to these information decisions. We know that, at the Ministry, they have difficulties in resolving complaints about decisions on the enforcement of rights from public funds. The beneficiaries are waiting three years for their solutions, and after the change has been introduced, chaos could also prevail here. It is clear from the legal material that the main purpose of this change of social legislation is to reorganise social work centres, so that the Ministry and through it, of course, will take full control of the social work system's staffing. Christian Democrats say there will be irreparable damage to this system. Let us just remind ourselves of the controversial political recruitment at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, which received an epilogue in the matter of the Koroška boy. Ladies and gentlemen! How many such and similar affairs await us in the future? The law provides for 16 district centres for social work. Why 16? Some of them are covered in statistical regions, some of them aren't. Various criteria were therefore used. The current directors of social work centres will then be assistant directors, fully subordinated to the directors of the district centres, of course in cooperation with representatives of local communities. The recruitment cycle is therefore concluded. There is no evidence of how more of the professional work announced by the applicants will be provided. This is a highly structural change, which may only result in better professional work, and nowhere has it provided this. In particular, we need to touch on the financial aspect of the reorganisation. The Ministry hired an external company to manage the project and to manage relations with the public regarding the reorganisation, which paid him as much as EUR 121 000. This is more than the Ministry of Public Relations has jointly paid from 2007 to 2016. In the paper, the assessment of the financial consequences of the reorganization of CSDs in euro makes this smooth silence. Let me sum it up. The purpose of this amendment of the law is to increase and consolidate the political impact of the coalition's party on human resources in the social protection system, which will cause much damage to the entire network and professional work. We're going to fix it for years. Members of New Slovenia therefore do not take responsibility and we will vote against the law being suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u109	Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The purpose of the amendment of the Social Protection Act, which was held by February of this year, is to reorganise the functioning of social work centres. This would lead to a decommissioning of administrative expertise, simplification of procedures and increased staff diversity in the event of successful implementation. The foundation of the changes is therefore the establishment of 16 new centres for social work, which will manage and manage one common place. In this way, according to the proposaler, the social work centres, which will continue to function as units from the reorganisation, would relieve human resources and administrative matters and allow users to be dealt with more quickly and professionally. The amendment also introduces a legal basis for a flexible working time for social workers and other employees, which will also be available to individuals in the afternoon. In addition to this, an automated way of issuing decisions on annual rights from public funds would be highlighted as a positive consequence of the proposed amendment. Applications for rights from public funds are long and enforcement is complex. That's a fact. And to many individuals who are already in a precarious situation, fulfilling and complementing applications is another stress. In this way, the rapid automation would result in the tedious fulfilment of applications and the verification of each individual or family, or the required conditions at all, while at the same time allowing employees more time to devote to users. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we want the efforts of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to bear fruit and bring the social protection system the necessary refreshment and, above all, better quality social protection services. That is why we will support the proposal for a law at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u111	Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! With regard to the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection, which brings significant changes to the organisation of social work centres, we are somewhat uncertain in our Group. We agree with the argument that the functioning of social work centres is a very complex issue. In recent years, their activities have been constantly complemented by quite different institutions, which can provide a legitimate basis for the systematic upgrading of their organisation. The proposed solutions can be justified and useful, with undoubtedly the most important aspect being the qualitative upgrading of social services for the population. Nevertheless, the proposed changes can also be understood as centralisation of institutions in the field of social protection. In order not to be mistaken, such integration may be beneficial, perhaps necessary, but a number of open questions have arisen during the drafting phase and some have not been answered in a comprehensive manner. In a number of other areas, however, such associations or associations for unhealthy and targeted centralisation have been shown, which rightly prejudges doubts. During the merger phase, we all support the rationalisation of administrative and technical work, but we are less convinced of the greater direct professional presence of the competent staff in the field, despite the emphasis on the principle of equal accessibility, if the professional staff are in fact formally not, they are mainly concentrated in the 12 regional units. This could lead to difficulties in the case of some small or specific centres between 62. We will be happy if this pessimism of ours proves wrong or unjustifiable. So far, many dilemmas have been raised. I will add just one more from the point of view of the Hungarian national community, on which I have already asked the Minister of State a question. I only point out the aspect of the Hungarian national community, because in the case of the Italian national community, there will be a dominant unit in the national mixed area in Cyprus, whereas in the case of the Hungarian national community, that will not be the case. My question is whether the Government, by amending the law, envisaged optimal solutions to the possibility of consistent legal use of the Hungarian language in terms of the functioning of the district centre, which is not envisaged in the national mixed area, was that Minister Anja Kopač Dark, stressing that such rights have not been violated yet, replied that they had considered this issue and that they would be linked, if necessary, to the competent organisations of the national community. As far as I am concerned, this has not yet taken place, but it would certainly be desirable that, in Article 17 of the proposal, amendments to the law may be made under the Chapter of the Transitional and Final Provisions, with an appropriate solution, to that specificity. This would be desirable from the point of view of the Hungarian national community and, in view of the possibility of consistent implementation of constitutional and legal provisions concerning the full use of indigenous languages, it is correct. Our Group of Members will be happy to take part in this. Notwithstanding the open questions raised, we support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u113	Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u114	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The New Social Protection Act, which we have on the table today, is, in our view, the first step in the process of reorganisation of social work centres. Although it took quite some time and coordination for this to happen, we are pleased that it is now time to consider the proposal of this law. Today, we note that the functioning of social work centres is ineffective and too burdened by the administrative tasks imposed by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Protection Benefits in 2012 on social work centres. The main motive for then amending legislation was therefore to treat all recipients of social assistance, child allowances and other public funds equally. On the basis of the newly established laws that radically changed the way social work centres operate, social work centres have also become the body that decides on the allocation of all social transfers and subsidies. Due to the high burden of social work centres with administrative work, social workers have much less time to carry out their mission and, as a result, move away from the people and the pressures they face. The main purpose of the amendment of the Social Protection Act is therefore to relieve professional workers in particular. They will no longer perform administrative tasks, but they will be able to devote themselves fully to solving the social distress of individuals and families. The needs of people in need of social work centres are becoming more complex, more numerous and new and require an effective and swift way of action. On the basis of the amended Social Protection Act, 16 social work centres will be established, which will be created through the merger of existing social work centres. The current centres will become units of social work centres. There will be accounting, administrative tasks, legal and human resources services within one centre. Some of the social security services, public powers and tasks carried out by social work centres so far will be carried out by the newly established social work centres. This will set out specific tasks for the decommissioned units of social work centres. The amendment introduced by the amendment to the Social Protection Act provides an organisational basis for the further substantive reorganisation of social work centres, for which other laws governing social protection rights should also be amended. Through the integrated adaptation of other laws, the reorganisation will achieve the effect that the Government is following, that is that professional workers of social work centres will have more time to work with people. The Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre considers that the law under consideration is suitable for further consideration and will therefore be supported at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u115	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the bill. First of all, Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Get ready, mags. Tanja Zink and Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I listened very carefully to all the presentations of my views. For the past six months, we have worked very intensively both with the professions, the unions, had dedications in all the district units, invited everyone, including representatives of local communities, the National Assembly; in short, political decision makers, professional, non-governmental organisations at these regional councils. This time, too, I would like to hear the comments that have been made, and I would like to give you an explanation, an answer or an indication of what the key objectives of the law are immediately after the opening presentations. Most of the time, it is highlighted when a proposal to amend the organisational structure of social work centres is made to centralise social work services in the field. I would really like to point out that the basic purpose is not the same and that there are several safeguards in marriage that cannot happen. In fact, it is very important that the law provides that units, that is to say, are specified in units, i.e. existing centres for social work, to carry out all professional tasks, except the decision on rights under the Law on the exercise of the right from public resources; the one-year rights, the protection allowance, the money of social assistance will still be decided on by units. As we have written this down in the law, you must be aware that there are also standards and standards for the implementation of these tasks, which means that it is not possible, as has been pointed out several times, for the units to be deleted by the government regulation or for the number of employees to be redeployed within the area from one unit to another. In short, this is also important in relation to other reorganisations, because in no law will you have such a record because I believe that we have found a solution with you all to ensure that existing social work centres, which will become units, are a key entry point and where professional work is done. Because what we believe and what led us to reorganise that social work centres are the key institutions of the country that operate in the local environment and must remain accessible to the individual the same or better. This is from the point of view of the basic time things are changing, and you will see, after all, I will show that certain additional offices will also be designed, because today accessibility is not the best. We are centralising only, only and only, a common service, which is an important aspect of rationalisation. On the other hand, the unit where – in particular, the administrative workers transferred to social work centres – will generally decide on one-year rights. It's from the point of view of the organization. It will also be very clear that each area will have its own intervention service covering crisis centres. It is important that people, today’s employees – you need to know that they are working, have a contract of employment, today, I don’t know, at CSD Metlik, which is the smallest, is 5 employees in full. People from New City, employed at CSD Novo mesto, employed at any other of the 62 centres for social work, cannot come to help solve the problem in Metlika. They can't. Due to the aspect of labour law, it is not possible to do so in employment contracts. With this merger, when we connected individual units, we wanted to achieve that individual professional staff, where challenging cases are needed, and unfortunately more, are increasingly able to provide the possibility of creating a multidisciplinary team, that we have a psychologist, that we have a clinical psychiatrist, that we can look at the problem with several aspects of the profession. This is with today's structure 62 CSD – which I do not know, Maribor has 90 employees, Metlika 5 – impossible. [[…]] Of course Maribor has more because it has more roles, but the complexity of the case that can happen in Maribor is the same in Metlika, and Metlika and 5 employees today cannot solve it equally effectively. This was a key emphasis on the integration of different units in this, and other professional tasks actually remain in the local environment. The question raised is human resources malnutrition. I've always highlighted, and I'm always honest that it's a long way from being a satisfactory staff composition of social work centres. You know, with the ZUJF, with everything that's been going on, the downsizing of employees, it's been happening as it is. Unfortunately, I can say that we have never succeeded in social work centres from a reduction of minus 1 exempt. I can take it from myself that as then's secretary, I failed. But I can say, unfortunately, this is the whole responsibility of everyone, including the legislators and those who have accepted the ZUJF, who have basically introduced these restrictions into our system. But it would not be now that we lay down who else is responsible for anything, it is that I believe that all of us are in the interest of improving the situation that is today. With regard to human resources malnutrition, we want to ensure that there is greater mobility of professional staff that can cover the area. On the other hand, this year, for the first time in many years, 20 additional jobs. This year, this is on the basis of the highest deficits found, where we compared, as has been pointed out, that we have not reviewed standards and norms. Of course it's done. We can't regret it, or if you help me to accept in the budget that there will be so much money that I can with 1. 9. We hire 300 new social workers, then we will probably be able to solve the problem very quickly together. But I can't achieve this within the budget cut as Minister of Labour. That is why we have dedicated all the savings we have at the Ministry to strengthening social work centres, 20 of them, at the same time paying 62 trainees, who will be assured next year to remain in the system. On the other hand, for the second year, which also has financial implications, new jobs are foreseen for directors, but I do not ask you to understand that they are just new directors. It is important that 62 assistant directors, who will run existing units, will only perform professional work. We also made it very clear in the law that the units, the assistant directors who run the units, are responsible for the professional work. This means that there are an additional 62 people in the system, since today most directors or all perform both professional and business functions. Now there will be a clear separation: the district unit, the district social work centre will perform business functions and general functions, while professional decisions and responsibility for professional work will be provided to the assistant director. So it is absolutely not true that the assistant directors who will lead will have no role to play. This was also agreed in cooperation with local communities. Why? Since the unit representing today's Centre for Social Work is an important link to the local environment and the mayors in the local environment have expressed the desire that this cooperation and a certain impact are still maintained. Therefore, the role of Assistant Director is still to ensure that the local community, where this unit is established, gives an opinion, as it is today, on the appointment of this Assistant Director. The new world, the social work centre body, is also formed on the proposal of the law, if this is, of course, voted. This is the Council of Local Communities because it will represent the interests and interests of all local communities covered by the Regional Centre. It is very important that he has the function of appointing two representatives to the world of the institution, which is more than that today. So we tried to find the right measure of the relationship between the local community of interest and that it would still be recognised in a new, broader composition. Don't forget, we have also given responsibility to the professional director who runs this unit's assistant director to be completely autonomous, as far as the funding given by the local communities for individual programmes implemented only for citizens and citizens from that local community is concerned. So, even here, there's no centralisation and fear of someone on a higher level, so in the area, this money has been redistributed in any way. We have heard all of this in the very process of coordination. Second, question 16, 12. Why? We came from existing statistical regions. And most of it, as you found out, is the same, but Ljubljana. See, if we combined Ljubljana with central Slovenia and made one CSD, it would cover 529 000 inhabitants and include more than 400 employees. My expert opinion, as well as the opinion of the profession, namely the Community of Centres for Social Work, of all, is that this is an absolutely excessive organisation. This is why Ljubljana is divided into three parts. This is why Ljubljana, the central Slovenian region – we have three: Ljubljana Center and then the Western and Eastern promise region, which has its district CSD. And two other things are different. We followed the logic that no statistical region, so the decision is that we do not have two urban municipalities that would be within one, so the division of Maribor-Ptuj, where each is its own, and on the other hand it is the same for Celje and Šaleško-Savinja, where Velenje is. These are the only differences according to existing statistical arrangements. And the criteria, even after the harmonisation of the law, are clearly set out on the basis of which these areas were created. In addition, – which I think is extremely important to be exposed to undernutrition – the introduction of an information decision provides for: one-year decisions are some 350 thousand among the 760 thousand decisions issued annually by social work centres. This is expected to be fully automated – you need to know that for 200 000 applications are expected to be complete, that is, social work centres will not even print decisions. And basically 45 minutes takes one worker to get one application. We went and calculated on the basis of spending 30 minutes. In view of this number of decisions, our experts say that it is conservative, that some 90 workers will save some time. Let us not forget, therefore, that these redundancies mean for existing staff, that they will have more time and more people will deal with people, which is the primary purpose of reorganisation. Because we are aware that the administrative part of the decision on rights when we look at the property situation, when all the records are looked at, is one aspect that is important, but is absolutely not essential to people's perception of how social work centres can help them. Here it is very important – again, social activists. Some of you give as a down payment that 48 people are employed at the Ministry. Unfortunately, because these are European funds, only the Ministry could report this project and implement it. Regrettably 62 CSD that each person would apply for this and that he could then be entitled to draw – it was not possible. We have made it clear, however, that together with them we have chosen and social activists have certain places at social work centres. They were coordinated with the directors where these social activists are based. And of course, social activists are meant to work at social work centres in the local environment. That's the key. It is also waiting for us inside, and it is crucial that these employees are expected to be transferred after the end of this transitional period to the regional centres. If that is not the case, it will again be how to deploy these 48 social activists into the existing network. As far as the weather is concerned. Some of you have pointed out as negative that we are starting on October 1st of the following year. You have to be aware that my wish would have been for this to happen sooner. We have had many coordinations both within the profession and within the coalition. Of course, this is no secret, but it is responsible that we do not happen to make sure that we have enough time to do all this. You need to know that once the law is passed, there is a need for institutional acts for all new centres for social work, all new employment contracts, new systemisation. In short, there is a lot of work to be done, and that we can take this out responsible so that the story of 2012 does not repeat itself, we have decided on such a deadline. But we are doing everything we can to make sure that it is already ready today. Procedures shall take place so that this will then take place without problems. Well, I'd rather spend a little more time than get anything complicated. It is similar with an information decision. We are already testing in the system, so that nothing happens because it is big – you need to know that the ISCSD, which is the basis for the system itself, is seven times more complex than the PPIZ system – you know how much pension we pay! We are therefore aware of how sensitive and extensive the ISCSD information system is, which is the basis for the calculation of these one-year rights and essentially social benefits, which is why these tests are already being carried out. A sufficient test will be carried out so that all possible errors can be corrected so that production can go in full with the scheduled date. In short, very responsible for all these changes. I look forward to supporting and also to further discussions. I will try to address your concerns as well as possible during today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u117	The word has magic. Tanja Zink, prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Mrs. Zinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues and colleagues! We are therefore discussing the reorganisation of social work centres. I will try to highlight some of the key points that I think are crucial to this change. When I think about how long the policy has been preparing for reorganisation, this has certainly been a decade and more and has never been enough consensus to reorganise itself. Perhaps, and especially because politics and the professional public have stood on very different shores, as opposed to now that they have drawn closer to each other. That's why I don't think history can happen again, because it shouldn't. Of course, it was also at the expense of the fact that in this sense much had been done, that the project had been heard, that much had been said about it publicly and looked at in some way. As far as I have been monitoring the drafting of the law, I think the ministry has listened to the proposals and comments that have been made and thus led the bill to the content that we have today on the table. It may not be ideal at this time, but I am pleased that after all these years we have come, let's say, to make more radical changes in the field of the functioning of social work centres, which in my view have actually stuck and ran in some other historical period and have not adapted to the changes and challenges of time, which is inevitably necessary. This has been particularly evident in the recent economic crisis and, as a result, the number of beneficiaries has increased. We must also remember the changes brought to the centres by the Family Code and thus the transfer of certain powers to the courts, which further corrects this whole picture of the operation. I therefore hope that the bill will be supported because we are Members and Members very much like to be loud when there are such and different tragedies that are the most obvious sign that changes in this area are urgently needed. And I will not go into detail because this is not the topic of today's debate. The undeniable fact is that social work centres are in distress and difficulties, and therefore the fundamental mission of their activities is to provide assistance and this must remain a fundamental guide for a project such as the reorganisation of centres. I'll probably repeat myself if I say that social work is work with people, but that's the way it is. It is true that someone must also deal with bureaucratic tasks, but this must not become the main work at the centre, which has become a practice of work in the last period, or it must not be to the detriment of the people who need the help of the centre. We have been fortunate that there has been great progress and development in the last 20 years in the area of additional social security programmes, which are essentially added value in terms of possible forms of assistance available to users, but however, the centres need to get closer to people again. If I go directly to the bill. By providing for a common service, I see in this important rationalisation of work, the use of resources, resources and not centralisation. As for the professional work, which is sometimes extremely complex, long-term, the reorganisation will certainly bring improvements, especially to smaller centres that can promise mobile professional assistance or a multidisciplinary service. In fact, some smaller centres do not have an employed lawyer or, for example, a psychologist, and this can be a suitable solution. I may have only one thought about the time component in this regard, because this also takes a lot of time on the road, and that is why it is worth considering. Even though most decision-making procedures remain in place in the units of the centres, this is clearly in line with the professional agreement, as shown by government material, so I do not object. Finally, the units will be burdened with business functions and will be able to devote their assistants to professional work, which has been particularly the case so far. The next important solution is, of course, to simplify the procedures for the enforcement of rights from public funds for the introduction of an alternative decision, which also brings relief to both professional staff and beneficiaries who will not have to submit certain applications. If I finish. I believe that the bill follows the fundamental leadership to bring social work at the centres closer to people, so I will support it. Of course, there will be questions that will continue to open for us, and I really wish that we would not come into politics, but that we will find a final solution to take a step further in the area of the operations of the centres, because this is absolutely necessary. I'd add that to the end. The law provides for the Government to report to the National Assembly for three years. I think the effects of the new model should be assessed at least in the initial period before three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Dr Jasna Murgel. Mr. Han, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! After all, it would be best for Mrs Cink to remain silent, because, as I know, the lady comes from the profession, she has done this work before, and probably definitely one of us here who knows the most about social issues in this country. However, I would like to say that when we are in the social field, we are always in some kind of trouble. Being Minister for Social Affairs, at least those who have been engaged in or engaged in politics for some time, you know that it is one of the most ungrateful tasks and also the most difficult tasks you perform in the government. Why? For the first time because you always give too little money for social affairs, there are also some who say that we give essentially too much money for social services. So, for those of you who say that at the inn, I kind of care. [[…]] Secondly, since we are Social Democrats, by some values, committed to taking care of social welfare, it has never been difficult for us to assume this responsibility, unlike some others who have somehow given up these responsibilities. And interestingly, some who have not yet been in politics, who want to be in politics for a while, all know how it is necessary. So I invite them to the next government to take over this difficult resort and they will be able to distribute, solve the problems that have accumulated in this Slovenia. It's just that you have to be responsible for it, and you have to have some political knowledge. In the last six months, or in this mandate, there has been a lot of talk about this novel of the Social Protection Act. We have talked a lot about content, and I am glad that the minister or team at the Ministry has mainly aligned this difficult one with the expertise, but for my terms, it is a very important law. And of course, after politics comes into play, and this coalition has, in this mandate, been able to overcome some of its ambitions, and so today we have a law before us that will allow the centres to do even better in the future than they have done in the future. Many times in this country, people get angry when they come to social work centres, workers and workers working in these centers. And you know that these workers and workers work under difficult conditions, they don't have any wages that some would like to show, they're huge and they're dealing with administration, and they're dealing in particular with the difficult, serious problems that need to be solved. In this country, these people in social work centers have solved many difficult things, but there has also been some kind of accident, such as media exposure, and then sometimes a stain falls on social work centers or on employees. I believe that all those who go to this job who want to do social work when they choose to study must have the desire to help people. Of course, there is also one who is missing from the study, and it is not true, but I hope that they can respond to this leadership in social settings. Mainly, the analysis has shown that over the last 20 years, there have been a bunch of laws adopted, a bunch of cases that give people rights, and this needs to be administered. It has been shown that workers in social services deal mainly with administration, paper. Maybe because they're doing paperwork because they're writing papers and because they're investing and I don't know what else to do, sometimes they lose contact with the terrain, people who are in trouble. This reorganisation will allow – it will not do miracles to understand – that one part of the employees will deal mainly with the expertise, the content, the problems of the people, will be more on the ground, will be more among the people, because people today, you know, we do not recognize or recognize in Slovenia because they are worthy of being in trouble, but some make themselves poor. This is a problem, because some people don't admit they have problems, and some people have a lot of things, and they make themselves poor, but social workers have to deal with them administratively. I hope that this reorganisation and this legislation will enable those who have to deal with people's problems to deal primarily with it, and the administrative work will move on to these 16 centres, which the Minister has coordinated with policy and professionally and which will be across Slovenia. Slovenia is a specific country, we have big cities, we also know how we have congregations organized, we have a congregation of 300 people, and we have a congregation of 300,000 people. And interestingly, both municipalities have about the same powers: they both have mayors, secretaries and so on, with one municipality such as Ljubljana, which deals with many things, and a small municipality with 300 people has mayors, has the same frequency, has the same municipal holidays, and everything goes on and on. I want to say that it is therefore very difficult in Slovenia to make such a reorganisation that we will all somehow be satisfied. I remember a few years ago when we were talking about the provinces; we had a province of 15 congregations and a province of only 3 congregations, such as the Zavavian province, and so on. It's hard for me to reconcile. Therefore, I thank some who have a little longer in politics to understand some things. We talked for six months, six months in front of the cameras, about these social work centres, but I think the Minister managed to bring such a law to Parliament – which is very important because some other ministers do not have this practice – that it is in line with the profession, which is very good, that the profession does not still beat it every day in the media; that it is in line with local self-government, at least with the majority; that it is in line with policy; and that this law, before we present it in some way today, rummaged across Slovenia, across all of these 16 areas, and was presented by the Ministry and the professional public, how and how things will work. Although we now have a paper where all the articles are written, and now it will have to be implemented, there will probably be a lot of problems, there will probably also be some resistance of some individual, employee, community, but I believe that at the end when we draw the line that the state of Slovenia will be the right social state, where people who are trained to do so, who know who know how to solve people's problems, can, in some way, deal with these matters in their service, not with administration. And if that is why we had to have the Social Democrats in recent periods, or even today, listen to the evidence that these ministries in some way, I don't know what, we used them for our staffing and so on. See, those who say this, I invite you to take over the next term without a problem, you can organise all of this, and that is all it takes to have responsibility, and perhaps sometimes little knowledge, to be in the opposition or to be in any easier ministry, is much easier. I'm going to support the marriage because I kind of trust the minister that she did the right thing. I was even more convinced by my predecessor, Mrs Cink, who lived with the one who did this, and I think that's okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u121	Dr Jasna Murgel has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Jurša and Mr Jan Škoberne. Mrs. Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I don't know, my friend Pojbič is not interested in today's issue, when he is so terribly interested in social affairs and so on. Not many, but as far as I'm concerned, it is a very important issue, a very important one, which in fact concerns very many people and those we need who need social work centres – I also turn to myself because of the partial payment for lost income, let's say – very much wonder what the conditions for work are for workers at social work centres, or whether they can devote themselves to them, or whether they have the conditions to devote to them. Of course, this is a grateful political theme, which we have witnessed, of course, on the basis of one case, two where things did not take place, hand to heart, as they should have. But it's mostly a professional and not a political question, but then it's a long and wide distribution of how everything is wrong. But what's important is what I said to those workers at the social work centres is that they have the conditions to work so that they can have time to have the conditions, not even the offices, and I don't know what they have -- let's say that they have -- to talk to people, to actually do their mission, that we're all talking about, that it's closer to people to deal with people, but actually when you get there, I'd like someone who has time to talk to you about your problems, about the problems that you came to solve. I somehow understand that instead of helping our loved ones, instead of our friends who can help us and replace in one part the social network that we have ourselves, because we cannot help ourselves. But the problem is, if these workers are simply not enough, they do everything else, they make these administrative decisions, they issue, they write, and they don't have time to deal with human beings. This duty of the state to do so is to ensure it, and therefore it is infinite to me, because they are good and bad employees, we have dealt here with judges, with public servants at all, with workers at social work centres, and we say many times, to her, there is everything terrible, everything is, I don't know what, we have one such general conclusion. [[…]] What's most important is that they have the conditions to work at all. If they don't have them, and that's why there's a holdup, even a professional error, then we can't just blame these workers. We can't. Because they simply do not have the conditions for work and it is the duty of the State to provide them. The first thing that comes into my eyes, I always point out here – just to add this, I always stress here – if we're talking here in the National Assembly so generally, how bad it is, how everything is wrong, how they have no idea, they're lazy, they don't know what's there in social work centres, it's no wonder that when the client comes in, when he steps on the door, she's already pissed and she hasn't even started talking to an employee at the Social Work Center, and she's already attacking him that I don't know what's wrong. And this worker spends first – that's what the workers at social work centres told me – half an hour to convince her; yes, sir or lady, I'm willing to help you, I'm here to help you, it's not always the way you talk on TV. But I think we should contribute ourselves to a moderate debate on how we can actually improve these working conditions and allow workers at social work centres to do what they are supposed to do in social work centres. And this law — yes — is a step towards this. What will be in your eyes when you talk about social work centres – that is what most of you have mentioned today – 62 centres for social work in this small Slovenia and everyone has their own accounting, human resources or administration, I don't know what. That's too much! Too much cost for that, too much money that could be spent on other things. It therefore seems very important to me that what this law provides, this rationalisation, in particular to bring these common services together into certain units, which will be less than 62. Since it costs too much, it costs too much, it is too fragmented, it does not make sense, at the moment each centre for social work is a separate legal person, independent and working in its own way, not under the organizational scheme of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs, are independent legal persons. It's cute and nice that we have in every center, in the congregation, not every one, because we have 200 more — in the administrative unit, yes — that we have social work centres. But really, and I strongly agree with this, and I think that citizens will have more of it, to unify these services, to work together for more of these units, future centres for social work, because this will simply cost less and will be better organised. That is why they are discussing how this will be organised. The law offers a solution, as it offers, that all 62 social work centres will no longer be legal entities. I think it makes sense, of course, and then it gets stuck, and now they're not going to be a legal person, and then we're talking here. This is now one of the main things we're going to talk about. But at the principle level, we are somehow all in favour of reducing costs. We live in capitalism and just one basic feature of it is that we always have to calculate how much something costs us, whether we have enough resources to go from the state budget to settle these things, and how we could spend taxpayer money as rationally as possible. We repeat it here as a mantra, and of course it is true. So, from this point of view that it is about rationalising the work of social work centres in order to reduce the costs for these common services, I think this proposal is, of course, okay. It is also okay, and this solution I welcome that some of the tasks, i.e. decisions on these one-year rights, are expected to be transferred to be decided by these centres for social work, these sixteen larger units, which will be later adopted, but part of the tasks will still remain at social work centres, which will not otherwise be legal persons, as the proposal is now being put forward, but will still be there. Those 62 units aren't moving anywhere. Professionals will still be there and will work and will have more time for citizens to help them in their various hardships, which will make them turn to social work centres. The law defines – I am a lawyer who is really going to watch what the law says, in those articles in there and not in the explanatory box, but I am a little disturbed by one thing all the time, and I know how things are going, but I want to speed things up with this debate. The material of this informational calculation is not the subject of this law. I guess that's what we're all about. The Law on the Realisation of Rights – ZUPJS, and this informational calculation follow – was in a public debate, but this is not here. It's in the explanatory box. Yes, because he will, he has been in a public debate, he will be put in, I suppose, but the IT calculation is not part of this law. Just so we're clear. This needs to be done as soon as possible if we want the reorganisation to work. We have a public debate, and the law will also be introduced, everything is fine, but only that we know what the substance of this law is, which is important to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds – they call it, because the shortcut is similar. This law must be adopted as soon as possible and then all that is stated here in the explanation that it will be. But even when we talk about this law that will change and determine this IT calculation, it will then be the content of this conversation, but it will still have to be kept in mind, given that it will be somewhere 200 [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, if there could be some silence, come on! [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Yeah, they're mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u123	Please, peace in the hall. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you. It would be very good to speed up the work, because without this informational calculation, the substantive reorganisation will not be able to count. A lot of things are based on the fact that we will then have an informational calculation of the decision making on these one-year rights. The minister said it'd be 200 grand somewhere, and then next year it'll be glass. It is very important that as soon as possible – it would be great if it were in the package, with one another, because it is connected – to address this Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds as soon as possible, but there will also be quite a few problems. I had a little chat with the workers at social work centers. It can happen that there will be delays in the work due to this informational calculation, because if it is only a one-year right, then it will be automatic, but if the combination of rights is available, it will have to work manually again if there are objections, and there will be a complication. Even in the initial phase, when something is introduced, it can lead to certain complications, which then slow down the work. The citizens are already there, at a low start: "Yes, now you have reorganised the centres for social work. Now you have plenty of time. I want you to deal with me now." I only point out that it will not happen that, at one stage, workers at social work centres will have even more work than they now have, which will be temporary, but that it will not happen as in 2012, that they were then very overloaded and almost collapse of the system. Social activation is also mentioned in the explanation. Again in these articles — can I not read? - That's not it. I know it's getting ready to be an activity, but it's somehow I don't know if there's anything in there about it. [[…]] In this marriage, I don't think so. In this social activation they have also warned from social work centres or the Maribor Centre for Social Work, which will get these three activists to know that they will also know because they will then have to have a social work centre where we say that there are very few people in employment, they will now have to have a coordinator to work with the activists. [[…]] So, they're going to be a little burdened up, but they didn't get 20 of those – now I'm a little bit like my colleague Prikl, I'm taking for Maribor – they didn't get any of those 20 jobs. Well, probably the ministry has reasons, but I am just reminding you that in these projects, in these matters, which are now like a conglomerate that will contribute to the reorganisation of social work centres, all together in the package should contribute to making things better. And I believe that it will not get complicated at the implementation level, that we will not get back to the idea that everyone will expect that now you have arranged everything, now it is great, we will come to the social work centre, and they will actually have even more work than they had before – at least in a transitional period. I therefore point out that really things need to be prepared at the implementation level in a way that will be as few as possible. Then, of course, things that will still have to be regulated in substance, and which are not subject to this law, cannot be. It's a project, because we've been repeating everyone here for years. Everyone was talking about reorganising social work centres, and no one was able to do that somehow. It may also be good to take steps: to work together first, and to share the work and then to have additional content. But let's say one of those things that we also said when we adopted the Family Code, but we're going to need special custody, like, to be settled. And there's a lot more to be done, because then we're going to have to work on the content of what they're doing and what they're doing, if you want, is being burdened with social work centers and those professionals there. We still have a lot of work to do. I am sure that, after this kind of organisational pay, we can achieve one effect through this law, which will then, of course, need to be upgraded, so that we can finally talk about some substantive reorganisation of social work centres and work at these centres at all, and that citizens will actually feel this reorganisation on their skin. In short, they will come there and have a worker or a worker’s time to talk. Since this is the case, it is in modern urban societies that we simply replace part of the social network with a social work centre and turn to it when it has problems. I think this is the first step, this law, that we will be able to ensure this as a country. That's why I'm going to support the marriage in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u125	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and the mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u126	Vice President, thank you for your word. The views of the parliamentary groups have been presented, several debates have already been discussed, many things have already been said. We must say, however, that we have already said many things through coordination and that these coordinations have actually been going on for quite some time. I put some oil on fire myself in this regard, but in some ways I apologize to myself for doing this because of the environment I come from, because I know the most about that environment, the most people I know there, and I know when they need a social work centre. At the outset, I will say that there will be no doubt that I will also support this proposal in the first reading. But I'm going to say some of those things that haven't been told yet, but they're more specific and finer. I am aware that these changes to the law and then the reorganisation of social work centres are necessary in order to improve the services of those for whom we also have these institutions. These are our citizens and our citizens. On this matter, I was most disturbed by the fact that the centres on the ground, called the future unit, no longer have legal status. Because on the basis of legal status, we can guarantee some autonomy of the work of the centres on the ground. This centre will no longer be headed by a director who would be appointed and given their consent by the local communities in addition to the board of directors. This center, the unit will no longer somehow lead the institution's world. It is true that they have given, as an organ, “help” to a local community representative. This is foreseen, but this is not what I personally wanted from some Members and Members of our Group. After careful consideration, why are the headquarters of these newly established centres now to move back to the regional centres? In a number of local communities, we have created conditions so that the headquarters of the district centres can also be located in smaller local communities. Do all of us, respected colleagues and colleagues, know whether you have ever done an analysis — all those coming from smaller environments — how many public sectors have we lost in these local environments? But you know, it's not just a question now that we've lost the public sector in the environment, we've also lost pretty well-paid jobs. In the local environment from which I come, there are not many good jobs and well-paid jobs, and public servants are always one of those who are better paid. Here I would mention the tax administration – now it is called a little different, but when it actually moved, there was a tax administration here, and then there were inspections, and there was an army, and the police have their headquarters in these regional centres, pension and disability insurance institutions are there, health institutions are there. But despite the fact that this legal subjectivity of social work centres is being lost, I think we have ensured here that the actual organisation will remain in these environments. This is progress, and it kind of calms me down a little bit. Before the second hearing, the distinguished minister – I should like to mention this – would also like to see a regulation on the organisation of social work centres. We were actually talking about putting this in the law at the first stage when we coordinated the matter. Then we made a different choice. Of course, this regulation, in any event, before the second hearing, at least I want to see it myself. You know, these 20 jobs don't inspire me in any way, because in the final phase, if we say we're going to have 16 directors now, these are the new centres, I think that those who have run the centres will probably apply to these executive positions, and then we'll have the opportunity to give some professional work or professional services to people who will be able to help people. In a way, it will be good to put a trainee in each unit, because this one will be qualified and will in some way be able to work there tomorrow, in the morning, in a few years' time. And we're not getting any big gains in the first phase. In particular, I'd like to say a few more things. There was no greater dissatisfaction in the Slovenian space when the reorganisation of the centres began. This approach, in a way, was the one that was placating that it went from mid to mid and that this matter was interpreted to people, explaining how the centres were meant to be reorganised. Perhaps there should be more than one public meeting at that time, perhaps fewer of those who are employed in social work centres or those meetings, I also once said, separate one after another; but that is now the past. I must say that in Ljutomer we are not satisfied with this form, even though I said myself that I will support this in the first stage, that even in Lenart there is a problem where they will connect, Ptujšci in some way also now think about when they do not have Lenart at their side; the problem is in Koroška, Grosuplja goes to Ljubljana. Where will he be now, in Kočev or Bistrica? Fishermen – I'm sorry. These are open dilemmas that need to be discussed in some way. I'll bring up two more questions. One is a decision-making unit on public funds rights. I welcome the fact that this has been the case. Even in a way, I might have been calmed down as the one that I might have discussed most and insisted on some solutions that were then for you – and probably not acceptable now. I will keep a close eye on this, and I will keep an eye on how long I will be a member of the National Assembly so that this will not happen otherwise. However, I would like not only Ljutomer, Kočevje, Ravne na Koroškem, Illyrian Bistrica to have these services in the units, but also other units, and to transfer this to the actual units, so that the services will be dispersed in the field. This element, the social activation unit, is also a welcome issue and this form, as I mentioned earlier, would also be welcome to actually move these units to the headquarters of units in Slovenia. Until the second debate is still a while, we will add something else to it, maybe we will make a difference, but all about everything at the end, as I said before, I will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u127	Mr Jan Škoberne has the word to prepare the mags. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Since 1992, a number of things have changed. Infrastructurally, if you look at Slovenia then and today, it's almost another country. It's changed in a wide variety of systems, technology, even fashion is fundamentally different. What has remained unchanged since 1992 is the organisation of the work of social work centres, because it is one of the most demanding, and it is also associated with the most problematic and one of the hardest apples in which, of course, it is not the most opportunistic to bite. However, after 25 years, we have before us a proposal for a law on reorganisation, of which, of course, we rightly expect much, and which, unlike many laws, has actually had public treatment, as it is appropriate, both with the professional public and with employees, as well as with people on the ground, which is also the motto of change, both in form and content: bringing social work centres away from bureaucracy back to people, from paper to solving the everyday problems that our people face. Of course, it is not a single and only measure that addresses this area, although I try at some point, at least as I understand through the debate, to say that this moment is just a fence to which we will put meat, of course, the content in the important part still comes. However, if you are in the past or if you may still be reading material in the field of social policy until the second reading, one of the better books will help you understand what is happening today and what is happening in the process of adopting legislation in recent years and how to place it in a comprehensive macro understanding, a book entitled Activation - an establishment in social policy. Through this book you will understand why Slovenia was actually unprepared in 1992 to enter a model where, from full social protection for a time, it passed into an economic and political experiment, including a social experiment where it was necessary to re-design a way of ensuring the dignity of life, social security of people. Of course, part of this is the law before us. Part of this was the Family Code, for which both the Minister and we Social Democrats, together with partners who have changed little by name or by intensity of support, have worked for the last 10, 15 years. And 10, 15 years to not say, rebellion, resistance and pollen were necessary for the basic substance, with everyone agreeing in the core – the weakest must be protected, the children must be protected, the social work centre must be given the content, the expertise, the bureaucracy should be removed, the courts should be given what they belong to. Similarly today, when we look closely at the responses, we find that, of course, with everything that is respected and I understand, for every local community, mine is no different, it is difficult when changes come. We're all afraid of them, and that's why we accept them with a shaking hand. However, the basic frustration of people over the past 25 years, when we talk about the work of social work centres, was that people had the feeling that employees there were becoming more or more involved in paperwork. Employees themselves, social workers as well as psychologists and others, explained increasingly to us that they simply lacked time; that at the start of this established model they went to the field four times a week, that now at the end of the field work some people had a maximum of two days per week; in the rest they were dealing with another. We are talking about many things, including the management of state property, the fact that we have to organize and work wisely. Now, the established model of work is a key difference from the present - red tape retreats to centres, joint services that have no connection with social work, retreats to centres, professions, work with people, and solves real-life real-life problems in real-time, and leaves business units in the local environment where it is most necessary. If this objective and this purpose cannot be confirmed, then I should almost ask myself whether it would not be better for the President of Parliament to order a mandatory reading of the Activation - an establishment in social policy. I still recommend this optionally, Mr President, perhaps it wouldn't be bad. What might be the key. If you have attended these meetings, you have found that they have always started with the same model: skepticism, questions, untruths and myths, and you have usually ended up enjoying this meeting, I hope there will be more of them, thanks for listening to us, and I hope that you will succeed. In the same way, I imagine this today, even though there is almost a half-empty plenary debate. We have faced and will continue to have a basic view of what we would expect in the future from social policy in the field next to people. But first of all, it is essential to build a basic fence, and it is important to understand that we also need to put this in the context of at least the last ten years of the development of our social policy. In doing so, we understand that there are also moments that we will have to adapt to. Since this is not even the point of the agenda, I will merely rhetorically ask myself – with what we are doing and with what is happening in Europe – what is ahead of us, with the potential development of the common social policy at European level, if, as a region with 16 centres, we are able to make a storm out of it, and we have not yet reached the most difficult substantive issues. It is absolutely an excellent and good marriage, and it is primarily a law that gives professional workers, those who are under pressure, on the margin, on the edge, in trouble the most, the opportunity to help them. Support for such a law is self-evident. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u129	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, all present! The Social Work Centres have undoubtedly done important work for the most vulnerable groups of citizens, as, in addition to public powers and social security services, they implement a number of programmes that alleviate the pressures of users directly in their local environments. Centres also perform intervention services under the Domestic Violence Prevention Act, run crisis centres for children, adolescents and care for women and children who are victims of violence, safe houses for women and children, and carry out various development projects to work with an individual or groups of persons with disabilities or social exclusion, such as residential groups, therapeutic groups, youth workshops, teaching assistance to children and the like. However, some shortcomings in the operation of the centres have been detected. Problems also cause their fragmentation and varying size. Smaller centres are hampered by the establishment of teamwork, the lack of specialists from different professions, the difficult appointment of professional commissions and the like. What disturbs some users is, above all, a dry bureaucratic approach by some of the employees of the centres, which is probably precisely due to the lack of administrative work, it is difficult to afford each user the necessary time, even though this would certainly deserve it. Because of various problems, a project for reorganisation of centres has been preparing over time, and today we have a law before us as a result of a number of compromises between employees and professionals and the needs of the population, and of course a policy. Instead of the current 62 legal persons of social work centres, 16 legal persons from social work centres are expected to be set up to cover larger territories. An important change is that the units of the regional centres will be without legal personality. The units will operate in places where the current centres for social work are established, so that 62 district centres for social work will be established. They will also implement social security programmes that are important for local communities and cooperate with NGOs. In view of past bad experiences due to the centralisation of different services, we are concerned for people of importance in the Desus Group that future units of district centres could simply disappear from local environments. This has happened in some areas that are important for people. For example, with tax offices and post offices, the Ministry of Health recently tried to abolish emergency services in local environments and some primary schools were before they were abolished, although these services are essential for the country and for normal life and for human health. On the initiative of the Desus Group, several guardians were therefore introduced in the draft law before each government, by regulation, voluntarily amends or even abolishes the units of social work centres. Thus, the text of the law contains a report by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the effectiveness of the operation of social work centres and their units, so that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will have the possibility to adopt recommendations or guidelines to the Government regarding the formation of units. Of course, this is an insufficient form of parliamentary supervision of government work in this area. In the Desus Group, it seems important to strengthen the links between centres and local communities in the further legislative process, to increase the future effectiveness of centres for the benefit of the population, and to prevent possible political recruitment. The Desus Group, in view of the growing proportion of the elderly, lacks social services to provide answers to the needs of older generations. The Ministry of Labour has been responsible for the drafting of a law on the long-term care of the elderly for a number of years, but it has not taken care of this area. Although the preparation of the law on long-term care from the recent Ministry of Health is undeniable, it remains that there are many tasks in the area of caring for the elderly, which should be addressed in the context of the reorganised centres for social work in the future. It also does not matter how the service standards will be defined for users. What will be the programmes to meet the needs of the local population? Will the services really be accessible and will they be brought closer to users and in what way will the expertise of the treatment and increased user involvement in prevention programmes be ensured? People in distress do not want or need a dry bureaucratic approach, but they need someone who can trust them, understand them, and have leverage to solve their problems. So it doesn't matter what kind of people they're going to do for people with sensitive tasks. What will be their qualifications, their education? And what tools and strength will social workers have at their disposal? I hope the Ministry is aware that the centres and units of the centres should be operated mainly by people with the possibility of empathy, this is the ability to experience the situations of people in distress. However, it is also important to ensure an adequate number of persons who will perform tasks at the regional centres and their units. The reorganised centres for social work are facing a number of additional tasks, namely in the area of social activation, in the area of emergency accommodation of individuals, which will be carried out in crisis centres, and in the field of intervention in all emergency and emergency cases, on the basis of a notification by the police in cases of perceived violence in families, child threats and similar cases. All these tasks also require that the law also regulate the working time of the reorganised centres for social work, which is also provided for in the law. Without an adequate number of employees of all the tasks provided for in the proposal for a law, it will not be possible to carry out. Regardless of the concerns I have discussed today, I will support the draft law at first reading, of course with the hope of improving the bill's proposal in the next legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u131	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare the mags. Bojana Muršič and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much, President. It is good that we have one representative of the opposition in the Chamber, because otherwise we would say that only the coalition is talking about these problems because the opposition – apparently – is not interested because social matters are not interesting. It's boring, isn't it? Besides, they don't vote today and they go home better. So much so that we know who's working and who's not. Let's go to the debate. What is important about the law itself seems to me particularly to have come to a decision, to this move, because, in fact, if we put our hands on our hearts, we have been talking about this reorganisation for a long time. In several mandates there have been calls and there have always been some minor, cosmetic corrections, but in fact the centres for social work are in some way "commissioned" or brought from the previous system, when in some way the then government in that social regime felt that this area, which must be very clearly centralised, had control and so on. Of course, as a result, social work centers have, if you look at it, enormous, very important powers; and this is so important that they can practically affect every family because they have such powers. Of course, over the years, all of this has changed and certain things change dramatically with this law, especially in the first stage organisationally, but later, I hope that, of course, the time and work will show that there will also be consequences, and this is substantive. In fact, those of you who know me, you know that in a number of debates, which have connected CSDs directly or indirectly, have clearly criticised this way of working social work centres, because I believe that in all these years the social work centres have become more important than the person they were dealing with because of the burdens they received with the law. And if I'm listening to the debate today and also to the Minister's opening address, I can only hope – and I wish that this mental leap and this substantive leap would do its part to change – not only do I hope, but I do not believe that I would not support the law itself or the debate itself. But I do have a few questions that we're not just going to talk about how this is all important and all fine. First of all, I am interested – because in the debate I am listening to a discussion to prevent political influence, but within this we have local representatives. Yes, for God's sake, how are these local representatives gonna get there if not otherwise than through politics?Oh, my God! I mean, sometimes we talk about politics as if it's something ugly, horrible, evil, and it's just something that needs to be prevented. Yeah, then let's put an end to politics in this country if it's really something so rotten in this society. No, the opposite! I said in one debate this morning that one of the human rights is also political participation. However, if you are active in the local community and want to contribute with your contribution also within the framework of what is mentioned for local community representatives to participate in the world, that is more to say. Because, in fact, if I understood correctly, this was essentially a sort of question at the outset, whether the local community would somehow lose the possibility of some kind of local control, what was really going on in these social work centres. Well, and that's why I welcome this and, of course, all those who suggest preventing politics, I'll tell them in advance, then you have to leave this place, now we can't change the social order, because we have a slightly different set-up and set-up. Another thing that seems very important to me is this comparison between the large municipalities where social work centres worked. Ljubljana - 5 CSD, Maribor only en. Interestingly, there is only one person in Maribor and 5 CSD in Ljubljana. If I read the article in 3. 5. – therefore, the question for you, Minister – and I am reading this Director of the Maribor CSD, I have a feeling if I read this as a side intervention as if she is not satisfied with this reorganisation. With each reorganisation, I always wonder who the director is there or whether the director will still be the director – if you understand me – or whether he will be the leader now or anything else. I think that in each reorganisation, first of all, we need to reflect on human factors, especially because otherwise the reorganisation makes no sense; otherwise, we are adapting too much to the reorganisation of people who are leading, not to the people to whom it is intended. And that's the essential difference that we really have to deal with. I want to know if you've calmed down and calmed these passions, given that your client colleague mentioned that all the profession supports this matter and that everyone agrees, all the stakeholders. I believe that he meant it in principle, in general, because, to be honest, because I am talking about Maribor, but I am coming from Ljubljana, I must say that there are 5 CSDs in Ljubljana, but not all work the same, there are drastic differences. It's one CSD, and I'm not going to use the name that's been a disaster, and there's another that I could give as a sample and a comparison of how nice it would be if we did that to other social work centres. It is true, however, that there is, of course, a small difference or even a very large difference in social work centres in urban areas, where there is a completely different way of life and also the concentration of people in a place with a particular problem is completely different from in rural areas, in villages, in places – which does not mean that they are worth anything less. Far from it! It's just a different way to approach and feel that it's not the same if someone works in a city or in other areas. Both deserve equal treatment and, above all, help — if they have come to do so. Third, last thing, and I'm gonna end it. I think that in the reorganisation itself, when the law is passed, because I believe that it will be adopted, it would be very good to achieve some effort to popularise and raise awareness of what the social work centre is. On the contrary, I am sure that today more than half of the citizens understand that if you go to a social work centre, you are a problem; not that you have a problem, but that you are a problem. And that's wrong. That's why a lot of people don't admit to having a problem, and they don't ask for professional help. This awareness is, above all, from this point of view, that, as in health care, we have a set of certain rights to raise awareness of people when they first step through the door, with some certain notices of their rights. For this is a fine opportunity for them to know and learn what they can expect as taxpayers — capable or unable to understand each other, because most of the time the impossible taxpayers come to the social work center for their rights — and that is how we enlighten them. Of course, in some everyday language, not in some official language, because, you know, an ordinary citizen doesn't really understand the word first social assistance. He doesn't understand what that means. He just understands that he needs help. Therefore, it does not distinguish all the aid that is legal to it. From this title, it seems to me that this is a nice opportunity to have this thing reorganised, of course, in some way also prepare an action plan to take advantage of it as a kind of propaganda moment and raise it to a level that is significantly more well-aware of citizens. Otherwise, I support and support the law and the minister, regardless of all the criticisms, you have done a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u133	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar and Mrs Marija Bačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Amendments to the Complementary Law of the Law on Social Protection are certainly one of the most important topics that we are addressing in the National Assembly, especially because we are witnessing the growing social distress of many in Slovenia, 280 000 of them are on the brink of poverty or are already involved in this status, if I may say so, but many of them are on the verge of this and, of course, all of this also reflects how the individual works and how the family works and how the future actually works for young people in Slovenia. The timely treatment of both young people and all the other problems that are taking place in this area is certainly one of those objectives that we must pursue in this law and at the same time address all these cases as well. To a large extent, it has shown in these consultations on the reorganisation of social work centres that there is also a need to improve the staff force in some centres, and on the other hand what will be the impact of the new organisation on the other side of the current organisation. These consultations have certainly been very useful during this period in order to obtain as much information as possible from the field as the operators of this programme and also from the local community can see the adoption of this law. I'd concentrate on the part that I come from. This is about Kočevsko and this relationship between Kočevsko and Grosuplja as to how the social work centre will be organised in these two environments. I assume that this part of the region has not been particularly exposed to this debate. However, if I sum up this advice, Grosuplje is, of course, one of the areas where such a centre deserves to be covered by cases and a wider environment. On the other hand, Kočevska is one of those areas where, due to its distance and size, the territory and distance of individual settlements calls for this centre to be in this environment. Here I would like to draw particular attention to the decision taken by the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the Decision on the Spatial Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which, for Kočevsko, has written very clearly or at that time, entered into this decree to transfer a number of national, most important, state functions in order to become the centre of Kočev's national importance. Every resource within this area is looking for solutions that can be placed in this space, so that this objective, which is enshrined in the decree to become a centre of national importance, can also be applied. One possibility is for sure also the establishment of a centre for social work in Kočev. This dilemma – or Kočevje or Grosuplje, as I said before – is largely eliminated by the fact that there are very many inhabitants in Grosuplje and Ivančna Gorica and the entire area along the highway are extremely promising, and probably the settlement area will be extremely promising for a long time and the number will, of course, increase in that environment. On the other hand, there is an extremely poor road connection between Grosuplje and Kočevsko. In short, the shortest road connection that is now available is still in the macadamian execution, which means that the transition of people or the exchange of personnel from Grosuplje and Kočev is also linked to this shortest connection – of course they usually do not benefit the macadam, but the asphalt road, but you have recognized the shortest distance. So it is a handicap that may arise here, if the decision of the National Assembly is not taken into account, that Kočevska becomes the centre of national importance and that such centres, as in this case, are also trained and organised there. Of course, this can be done in a way that, instead of being explained in Article 2, it is written that it is set up not 16 but 17 centres. Perhaps it is as if in Grosuplje they agree, as they have also said, they want to belong, I don't know, one of the surroundings or one of the solutions in Ljubljana. These are the solutions that we have also discussed in the public presentation. So, the appeal: either 17 centres or, of course, a merger, but in any case, taking into account the decision of the National Assembly to have such a centre in Kočevsko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u135	Mrs Marinka Levičar has the word, to prepare Mrs Marija Bacič, is still a while, and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to everyone who's here right now! As long as there has been talk about the problems faced by the social work centres by the operators themselves, i.e. workers at social work centres as well as their users, I was sure that the reorganisation of social work centres was essential. I know that this is a long process and that the Ministry of Labour has also been engaged in this problem for a long time. At the final stage, I am very pleased that we have come so far as to discuss this proposal of the law, so that we can reorganise the centres for social work properly, so that they will be closer to the users and even more friendly to the workers themselves. This problem was essentially the first time I personally met myself — not me personally, but I accompanied this problem — when the social work centres came under the obligation to determine the eligibility of the protective allowance. How many older people had to wait really long, too long for the right, to recognize the right to a protective allowance. They were suddenly deprived of these rights due to legal changes, but despite all efforts they were not able to do so within the expected deadlines, especially because of the informational malnutrition and the number of workers that could be offered. Certainly I would not repeat the reasons for the reorganisation of these centres because we have less time available in our parliamentary group. I am also pleased at what our group leader has stressed and there have been a lot of concerns in the House about this reorganisation that negotiations need to continue. I think that any negotiations are useful and these negotiations have brought, at least as much as I do, better solutions, although I was already somehow satisfied with those solutions as they were intended, I must say this, but however, any negotiations can bring, if they are patient and rational, some better solutions. I would also like to stress this because, in fact, I was already overtaken by my discussion by colleague Weber. We're both from Kočev and I have been reminded of this problem in Kočev, so I wouldn't really repeat it, because you're familiar with it and we're wasting time if we repeat it, but it's also my attitude, because we both know what the problems in Kočevsko are about these. I would also like to stress this – colleague Juliana warned me that in his debate, when Mr Möderndorfer spoke about this policy in this part of the management of the centres, it was not meant on her part, and I also think absolutely not on our part, which she said several times that we have such an opinion on politics in the parliamentary group. Policy in the leadership of social work centres, this was meant to be decided primarily by the profession. However, at the end of this brief debate, I would also like to point out that I think the Minister of Labour has done a great deal of hard work, but also that she is responsible and grateful.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u137	Mrs Marija Bačič has the floor, to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and then to receive the word of a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! I also welcome the reorganisation of social work centres and the Minister has certainly invested a great deal of energy in bringing this novel so far ahead of us. There have been a lot of arrangements, talks, and sometimes contradictions, actually without need, because we all know how important this reorganisation of the centre is. In fact, because we know how burdened social workers are today with all red tape and if the purpose of this novel is to return to people, I think that is crucial. And if we succeed in getting social workers back on the ground, dealing with problems on the ground, with families, with vulnerable groups, I think we have also achieved the goal. That is certainly how I support this reorganisation and - all good!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u139	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor before I give the floor to the Minister in the final work.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear little Members, who still persist in the National Assembly! Yes, perhaps the problem of reorganisation of centres or the problem of social policy is not a high-flying issue, maybe there are so few of us here for this, but it is a matter that concerns each of us directly; it concerns small people and by not listening to this issue, many show how much you care about these problems at the end of the day. Reorganisation of social work centres – of course I welcome her, we welcome her in the Desus Group. I hope I will not think too much, but I see here as one starting point of this reorganisation also for the Minister of Koprivnik or one who will step into his shoes in the coming mandates, as an opportunity and opportunity for the actual reorganisation of local self-government or for the final revival of the law on landscapes that we are looking forward to for so long, of course not through the system of copy paste, but it can be a good starting point. A long beard has the idea of reorganizing, of changing the structure of social work centres. As you know, I have spent several years of my career working at the Ministry of Labour, and I remember, at least from 2001 onwards, as much memory as I can remember, talking about reorganising the matter, changing it, making it closer to people, more optimal – and, uh and ah. However, until this moment, when we were talking about it in the National Assembly, there was no such leap, there was no courage, no furryness, or anything else. Now we have this marriage here. It is normal to make a change, a reorganisation, but not a revolution in this area, that we are inert as people, every change is a risk. Of course, this change also poses a risk. But, look, we've been identifying all these long years, especially in the last few years, that something's wrong, that things need to be improved. If we are just looking and criticizing that it is wrong to make things better, we could make the matter more appropriate, optimal, but nothing to do, then it is not a proper policy. Here, this government coalition, in which Desus is also involved, has made this change, the first of which is, of course, the Minister responsible for work, social affairs and the rest of the matter widely. I think this is a good, real step, a step in the right direction, and we can expect improvements in this area. I firmly believe, last but not least, that the change in the organisational structure itself will not be sufficient; with a hand in hand, it is necessary to go hand in hand with substantive changes. And we're going in this area also in substantive change, we're going into social activation of the area, which I could talk about for a while, and I've only got a few minutes left. I think it's going to be a step forward so that we don't count the numbers in a few tens of thousands each year, how socially threatened, how many tens of thousands of people are below the risk of poverty and so on. Of course, it would be good to have more money in order for the staff to be practically unlimitedly available, I don’t know, dozens or hundreds of new jobs — but unfortunately it’s not possible. Reorganisation is a mechanism, but it is a way that is too small in itself, and it is also necessary to move forward with substantive changes, as we say. Here I feel earlier in one of the debates mentioned in 2012 when we jumped into the pool, not knowing whether there is water at all and how much water there is, with this famous ZPUJS or, if I am precise, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources. [[…]] The matter has come to light, there have been many convulsions and I think that today, even at this moment, some shortcomings have to be addressed from the context or from the existing system of the exercise of these rights. I think that this reorganisation, which is moving the matter on these 16 regional district centres, is a real move. I have to say, I haven't been so excited about this since the beginning. I must therefore say, even though the matter is already a belt and the solution is not annulled in this proposal, this is a mistake that I have noticed. It was meant, it is said, the Ministry of Labour, and then the intermediate phase between these 16 regional centres is another so-called central unit. I immediately warned the Minister of this – of course many others too, I do not imagine that I was the only one to notice it. This central unit is gone. I think that institutions, such as the Social Protection Institute, the Chamber, I don't know that I don't list all the different communities – I mean, different; the Community of Social Work Centres specifically – that they are qualified enough to be able to carry out their basic tasks in the framework of their interventions and that there will be no duplication. Of course, every reorganisation needs to be careful, and these concerns that we had – I will speak in the first person of the plural – in the Desus Group, of course, are in place. Our wish is that people at social work centres do not burn out like they do now, but do the right things in the right way, and above all that they are in the service of the people. It is only in this way that, as I said in the introduction, those numbers in 10,000 people who accumulate, pile up and repeat from year to year can be forgotten and the situation will be better. If anyone gains it in this reorganisation, they will gain it anyway by employees, especially people and especially people in those environments where the social crisis is the biggest. This, I don't think you have to mention that Maribor is with its surroundings and northeastern Slovenia. I want a successful journey. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u141	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the word is given by the representative of the Government. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs has equal opportunities for Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam President, for your word! In this place, I would like to thank all those who participated in this debate today, including all for the praises expressed for the very enforcement of this law. Indeed, it may have been a way of participating in such a profession We must know that we have included in the consultation group both representatives of the Social Chamber, the Community of Social Institutions, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, the Faculty of Social Work and also the Society of Social Workers and Workers who have participated all the time. [[…]] In fact, we have also coordinated all the innovations or changes in the legal matter with a professional who has really been involved all the time. In addition to including professionally from the very beginning of the drafting of the law, including with all social work centres, we have introduced information to all employees with internal communication, where they have been familiar with all procedures, what is expected, what will be the news, what will happen to them; we have collaborated with the union, we have worked with the local community. I have had many interviews with representatives of SOS, ZOS and ZMOS, i.e. representatives of local communities, as well as with all those municipalities or local communities where the question was raised whether the placement of their social work centre in the planned area was most appropriate. I can see that today is more or less a map than it will look at the end, so six areas in this way. That we have only an open question, I must say that it is already more or less closed, as far as Ljubljana is concerned, the promising local environments, which are all very strongly gravitated to Ljubljana, and on the other hand they are in many ways different. What Mr Möderndorfer also pointed out is that the urban environment needs to be treated differently from the rurals and that, of course, we want to pursue the basic objectives of the reorganisation, so that more or less now it is accepted that Kočevje and Ribnica will be together, while Grosuplje is more like Ljubljana and they themselves express that they would prefer to be part of Ljubljana. As far as Lenart's concerned, there's still an open story. To be perfectly honest, I've met with all the mayors of that area. In fact, Lenart is more of a part, after other administrative services, of the Maribor environment, while Lenart’s Centre for Social Work has a strong link with Ptuj’s Centre for Social Work. They are already being complemented in some way and, of course, their desire is different from that of the local community. I hope that we will close these things before this regulation is adopted. With this, we just want to point out that we have been talking to everyone and trying to find the broadest social consensus between politics, expertise, politics also at the local level and, of course, the interests of employees at social work centres. Why? Because it is such an important institution of the social state that acceptance and acceptance and willingness to change is one of the important factors that this process, which is demanding, can also be carried out, so that it will be for the benefit of those for whom we are doing it, and these are citizens and citizens who need the services of social work centres. And certainly the fact that people will come to the social work center, they will get the smile of the employees and they will feel accepted and that they will feel that the employees are helping them to the best of their ability. Restrictions will always, legislative, one-euro border, immediate dissatisfaction – but that they will come and have the feeling that they have been heard, that is the basic objective that we will achieve, and not only by reorganising, but by changing the attitude of each employee towards the user. A great deal has also been pointed out in the debate that many things still have to be done. Absolutely! This area of social policy is such a requirement, so comprehensively, even though we have adopted an important Family Code, which will also have a significant impact on the work of social work centres in relation to courts. So this important change is that they accepted the news on the protective supplement, that we accepted the pensions, that for the CSF it was said that the previous amendment allowed us to introduce social activation at all. I think tomorrow is the last day of interdepartmental coordination with regard to the ZUPJS, so we should introduce an information decision. In short, we work all the time, and there's gonna be a lot of room left for improvement. I am therefore looking forward to further discussion to complement what is necessary and that the broadest possible consensus in the National Assembly to adopt this law will be its best way of bringing these changes into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u143	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Nobody. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 22. 6. 2017, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
