ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Mr. Luka Mesec from 15:00 on, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr. Uroš Prikl and Mr. Roberto Battelli. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for an appointment of an advisory referendum on the restriction of immigration and the closure of the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union. The proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum was submitted by Mr Andrej Čuš. I give the floor to Mr Andre Couch, the proposer for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u2	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! In January, as a single Member, I put forward a proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the rejection of European quotas for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union, otherwise why? I believe that it is a reflection of the kneeling of left or right political elites before the Brussels elite to agree on the so-called quota system imposed by the European Commission. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we are unable to protect the field, how will we be able to protect our citizens? It is a kind of capitulation, slavery and argument that, as a member of the European Union, we must accept migrant quotas, it is unfortunate. Consider, for example, the case of Slovakia, which has repeatedly rejected migrant quotas and Juncker's mantra of multiculturalism. And what is the result today? It successfully develops its industry, upgrades the education system and strengthens national identity. He respects his roots. The liberal policy of open borders has a lot of problems that the debate likes to forget. It is a social state that promotes negligence, laziness and irresponsibility. European countries have never had as much public consumption in history and have never spent so much in history on various social transfers as they do today. The social state, as we know, is destroying traditional pillars of society, such as the family, causing market distortions, increasing the time preferences of the population, preventing the efficient allocation of economic resources and reducing living standards. In the long run, migration is also affected by the collapse of a civilized society, and respected colleagues are affected by migration, as migrants come without having a job guaranteed, and they receive unemployment benefits, public health and education, maternity leave paid, child allowances and so on. To make matters worse, these people come from non-free countries, so they do not understand the functioning of democracy and capitalism. What does the urgent migration of migrants across Europe mean? It means that the Schengen does not work, that Greece and Italy do not fulfil the commitments they have made, means that it is behind the desire to destroy national countries and, of course, the desire to destroy the European Union as such. The argument that we need new migrants because we are getting older is sand in the eyes of Europeans. One of the most developed societies, such as Japan, is not considering importing migrants who want to live at the expense of working people. It modernises and prepares its society at the demands of the ageing population, digitises industry and robotics. What are we doing? The elderly are pushed to the social bottom, while we reward so-called “fake” asylum seekers or migrants with luxury apartments. For Slovenian young families, there is no quota system for the allocation of government apartments, they remain on the shoulders of parents and old parents who spend day after day on the incomes of combat. Multi-urban Quartet countries have made it clear that they do not agree to destabilize their countries, that they do not want to "no-go zone" in their cities and, of course, to increase the crime rate. In Slovenia, we were already faced with the so-called influx of highly skilled migrants during Yugoslavia. Slovenia has already experienced and is living in an environment of failed integration and today some want to expand this problem. The alternative to quotas is the active protection of European borders without the so-called humanitarian transport from the Libyan coast and the benevolence of dictator Erdogan. The Constitution states that our country is based on the right of the Slovenian people to self-determination and the historical fact that in a multi-century struggle for national liberation, Slovenians have formed their national self-determination and established their statehood. There is no talk of Mali, Sudan, Eritrea, Senegal and other countries. Our country, our Slovenia is a state of Slovenk and Slovenes and must not become a laboratory of Brussels's multicultures of officials. Yes, unfortunately, there are individuals in Slovenian politics today who are more than their own people who mean well-paid jobs in Brussels. In the case of so-called migrant quotas, the security aspect is constantly neglected. And I don't want to talk about what happened in London yesterday, I don't want to talk about what happened last year at the airport in Brussels, but the respected representatives of the government and the police, tell me how you can guarantee that illegal migrants are coming to Slovenia and say they have no critical actions. Of course you can't because you don't have any information! In doing so, we rely exclusively on the naked words of asylum seekers or illegal migrants. I would also remind you of a migratory wave that struck the American federal state of Florida at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Empire. Some of you here probably remember that well. The dictator Castro, who also has supporters in the Slovenian Parliament, has planned to empty the prisons of the most violent criminals who, along with the migratory wave, have reached the shores of Florida. Today it is clear that a very large majority of so-called highly skilled migrants do not even undergo vocational education. In Germany, 9 percent of migrants did not attend primary school at all, and 24 percent left primary school prematurely. Western Europe has experience in migration as well as resulting results. These are “no zones” and the backdrop of the electoral base for some extremist parties. Integration didn't work. Multicultures are dead. Nor will it save the new arrival of illegal migrants, whether from the south or the north, when, of course, countries such as Germany, Austria, the Scandinavian countries close their borders and return illegal economic migrants to the countries from which they came. Awake because the people need us! However, we must not ignore, of course, the many protests, civil initiatives and initiatives that have emerged in various local communities in almost all statistical units of the Republic of Slovenia, where the Government wanted to set up migrant centres. And we can talk about Kidrič, about Lenart, about Shenchure, about Velenje, about Montenegro; in short, one has the feeling that it came from the President of the Government and, of course, those responsible for the abuse of power, because all policies and also the placement of migrants happen in the background, past people, to ask them what they think about themselves, and somehow it seems to me that we will be able to speak slowly in Slovenia, the Slovenes "raus". I will conclude with a quote or proposal from Keith Miles, a financial advisor from Great Britain and former members of the Strategic Council for Economic Development of the Slovenian Government, who now lives in Slovenia, which concludes or says: "First, true refugees should be encouraged to stay in camps where they can be properly provided and repopulated, as it has been since the end of World War II. Secondly, we should separate economic migrants from genuine refugees and ensure that they properly apply through established legal procedures and go to the countries they need.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u3	The proposal for a consultative referendum was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. I'm giving the president a word. To Dušan Verbič for presentation of the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, executive branch of power, very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 33rd regular session of 8. 3. 2017 discussed the proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum on the restriction of immigration and the rejection of the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Andrej Couch. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service as well as the opinion of the Government. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the applicant presented reasons which, in his view, show the eligibility of the proposal. He explained that a similar proposal had already been addressed in the National Assembly, and the difference was that this time the proposal explicitly rejected the migrant quotas adopted by the European Commission. As an alternative to migrant quotas in which the security aspect is neglected, it highlighted the active protection of European borders, i.e. without so-called humanitarian transport, expressing concern and the threat of Slovenia becoming a migrant pocket. The State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior said that the Government does not support the proposal. The decision in the proposal is unclear and the name of the proposal and the referendum issue is inconsistent. Thus, it is not clear from the proposal whether the Council proposes a call for an advisory referendum on the accommodation of migrants or the restriction of immigration at all. It is also unclear what the proposal means by the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants, as we are talking about transfers and resettlements of persons in need of international protection under the quota system. He explained that Slovenia uses all legal options to adopt from other Member States or third countries such a number of applicants for international protection as it can offer effective and rapid procedures, reception and the condition for inclusion in Slovenian society, while respecting the internationally binding and constitutionally protected institution of international protection for all persons seeking protection in its territory. The rejection of the quota system would constitute a breach of the commitments under the Resolution on Immigration Policy from the time Slovenia initiated the process of approximation to the European Union and the Resolution on Migration Policy, that is, documents that still represent fundamental guidelines in the field of migration policy in Slovenia. In a supplementary explanation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the issue to be addressed by the referendum should be clearly expressed. The demand for clarity is a reflection of the voter's right to have his vote in favour or against the referendum question as a proper reflection of his free will. The vague question is contrary to the rule of law laid down in Article 2 of the Constitution, as well as to the very essence of the referendum as a form of direct decision-making by citizens. In the work relating to the general immigration restriction, the proposal could lead to a violation of the fundamental constitutional regulation of Slovenia and of individual human rights, as well as of the freedom of work relating to the rejection of the quota system or to the proposed limitation of the number of applicants who could apply for international protection, and could lead to a breach of access to the procedure as the basis of refugee law. Following the discussion, the Committee voted on the following proposal for an opinion: the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considers that the proposal for a consultative referendum on limiting immigration and rejecting the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants to the European Union is appropriate. The proposed opinion was voted against by three members of the Committee and 11 members were voted against. The Committee does not consider that the proposal is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u5	In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the Limitation of Immigration and the Rejection of the Quota Scheme for the Allocation of Illegal Migrants across the European Union notes that the subject of the decision in the proposed consultation referendum is unclear and that the designation of the proposal and the referendum issue is inconsistent. In fact, the proposal for a consultation referendum concerns the accommodation of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia and the referendum issue concerns limiting immigration and rejecting the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants. Thus, it is not clear from the proposal of the proposer whether the National Assembly proposes an invitation to a consultation referendum on the accommodation of migrants or the restriction of immigration in general or anyone. The government also notes that the proposal does not make clear what is meant by the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants, as we are talking about transfers and resettlements of persons in need of international protection under the quota system. The referendum question should therefore specifically mention the act adopted at European Union level on the basis of which a quota allocation system is established across the European Union and thus the number of persons to be adopted in the Republic of Slovenia. Relocation means transfer of a person requiring international protection from the territory of one Member State to the territory of another Member State of the European Union and relocation of the transfer of a displaced person requiring international protection from a third country to a Member State of the European Union with a view to granting the right of residence and any other rights comparable to those enjoyed by persons with recognised international protection. The Republic of Slovenia, like the Member State of the European Union, is committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system and to sharing the burden and solidarity between Member States in the reception of refugees. The key purpose of the Common European Asylum Policy is to create an area of freedom, security and justice open to all those who are forced by circumstances to legitimately seek protection. Solidarity is crucial in finding a common solution to the migration problem at European Union level. The Republic of Slovenia has consistently insisted in the process of negotiating cooperation in resettlement and relocation projects that the decision is voluntary and that the number of persons accepted must take into account the integration and accommodation capacities of the Member State. In determining the number of persons to be admitted to the Republic of Slovenia, the accommodation and integration capacity of the country have been taken into account, which is also reflected in the agreements on the number of persons admitted, in accordance with the commitment to permanent resettlement within the framework of the conclusions of the representatives of the governments of the Member States on the Council. The Republic of Slovenia has applied the option of restricting reception or quota in the event of relocation or relocation of applicants and persons in need of international protection from other Member States of the European Union or third countries where the obligation to access the procedure is not available, since it has already been made available in another Member State of the European Union or third country. To this end, it shall apply all legal possibilities for it to adopt from other Member States or third countries such a number of applicants for international protection as may be offered by effective and rapid procedures, reception and conditions for inclusion in Slovenian society, while respecting international law, the law of a legally binding and constitutionally protected international protection institution for all persons seeking protection in its territory. The rejection of this quota system would constitute a breach of the commitments under the Resolution on Immigration Policy from the period the Republic of Slovenia initiated the process of approximation to the European Union and the Resolution on Migration Policy, i.e. documents that still represent fundamental guidelines in the field of migration policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, it would threaten an already fragile European asylum system, which in the last year, however, ensures that migrants are largely treated at the external borders of the European Union. If this were to be disrupted, the system would also be completely disrupted and the result would be completely uncontrolled migration. The Government’s view is that the Republic of Slovenia has successfully used a number of other levers for managing migration flows, both in line with international legal instruments and with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as with the obligations and solidarity arising from its membership in the European Union, therefore the proposal for an invitation to tender for a consultation referendum on immigration restrictions and the rejection of the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants throughout the European Union does not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u8	Your Honor, hello to everyone! Yesterday there were 5 dead in London, 7 in critical condition, 40 seriously injured. Two days ago, in France, someone who screamed in the middle of the street, “Allah’s acbar,” cut through his brother and his father’s neck. They're both dead. Before that, someone in Germany burned Germany pregnant with it, and so on and so forth. Welcome to the European Multiculture 2017! In fact, Europe is being threatened by politicians today; those European Union politicians, leftists and all those who help them, who have opened the door to radical Islam and started importing it into Europe, and who are preventing Europe, including those who know and want to defend themselves. This is how leftists today threaten the European Union, destroy it, threaten national states, threaten Slovenia, and threaten the entire Western modern civilisation based on human rights and on consistent respect for personal integrity, especially women and children. Just two days ago, the European Commissioner for Integration and Migrants, Greece, said that we must immediately import 6 million more. Then what I wrote happened. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is not really threatened by those who want it, Europe is threatened by those who are opening the door to radical Islam, and everything such commissioners and officials and everyone in the positions in Brussels and in national governments, with Slovenian value, should be put off immediately. Not only should we call for political responsibility, but we should also be criminally incriminating, because everything that has been going on in recent years is illegal. If European rules were respected, as they were adopted, there would be no wave of illegal migrants, half a million people who were unverified, among them proven, would not have been shot by terrorists across Europe, there would have been so many and so many hundreds of thousands of people across Hungary, among them virtually all who then killed directly in Paris – I think seven out of nine, two who were in support, but went over Slovenia to be precise. And then we listen to fairy tales; fairy tales of left-wing people teaching Europe about how nuclear engineers and surgeons are coming, how this means cultural enrichment of Europe, and how these are people who will be the future workforce for further European development. How is that old Slovenian custom so that liars have to wash their mouths with washing soap? Perhaps this would be worth considering to be reintroduced. What, ladies and gentlemen, is that true? Of all those highly educated people, there's no one. We got people slaughtering in the streets, we got taharrush gamea as a cultural enrichment of Europe, the lowest way to humiliate women, mass rapes, 50,000 girls were circumcised in Germany last year. Do you know what circumcision of women in radical Islam is? Something that turns them into pains and diseases, mental and physical. Did women protest anything about it? No, they protested against Trump, against whoever said he would end radical Islam! This is modern Europe, ladies and gentlemen, and the role of left-wing workers in it. That is why I say that Europe is not threatened by those who are coming, always by people who want to go there, but by those who open doors and force others to just accept everything on average, but are responsible. It was no more repulsive than yesterday to see people personally responsible for importing radical Islam into the region of Europe, how they poured their hands and expressed their condolences; and this was not the first time. Before that we saw this in Nice, before that we saw it in Berlin, before that we saw it in Paris, before that we saw it in Brussels. Exactly the one who should be held accountable for what has happened, because if someone knowingly violates the law and therefore commits a crime, he is guilty by law, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Penal Code! And then these people hope to get in front of the others and say that six million more must be imported. That's great! Is there anything different in Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen? Only four countries, while we were now listening to how nothing was clear to this government, were not clear even two years ago when I warned that migrants would come, a fence must be set up, and clear signals must be given that they were unwanted here in order for the flow to turn elsewhere when the time was right. And we've heard that no, where it's never going to be, then it starts to look like it can happen, and we've heard that we're ready for this, and we're all agreed on how this is going to happen. We said look, people of God, you can't rely on anyone, you have to rely on yourself, you have to prepare yourself, so there's no harmful consequences. No! No! You fascists, Nazis, I don't know what you want! And then it started, and then half a million people went through Slovenia, and about 200,000 of them didn't get a fingerprint, and today there's talk about how the Schengen was carried out consistently. Yeah, sure, and then the chocolate turns the whistle, not the chocolate whistle! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how responsibility, the state and the international community work. This policy has led to the collapse of Europe. We can pretend today that the European Union is still the same as it was, but it is no longer. It happened to brexit. Brexit would never have happened without a migrant crisis. Once they had such a referendum years ago, the two-thirds majority was in favour of the existence of Great Britain within the European Community. Today, roads that tear Europe apart are being strengthened. The question is, after all that's been going on for a few weeks, when the elections are in France. However, I am not really afraid of this, frankly, even though it is also possible for things to end for the European Union with complete decomposition. The biggest problem I see right now is the situation in Germany, where Merklov insists, will go to elections, burn to them, leftists will win, a complete left-wing connection with the Greens, which are something like the United Left in Slovenia or even worse. And then you can believe that it will be the same again – come! Then no one will keep this Europe together. This is a problem; the problem for Slovenia is that it must do everything in time to be ready for every development. Let us hope that such a scenario will not happen, but the hope in politics is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. It is necessary to prepare to ensure the safety and well-being of the people. This is responsible government leadership! Prepare in time, now! That's what you're saying. What's to be done? All security forces should be strengthened. On my proposal, the Commission, which I lead, decided that it was necessary to change the policy two years ago. This was adopted almost unanimously by this Assembly in the early autumn. Very little of this has been realized by the government. There's more to the police than that. There's more to the job now. But the army is -- sorry, it's not a state secret -- a mess; and that's the problem! Besides, there's something else. It is necessary to maintain that fundamental value, which is so self-evident to the Slovenians, that is the value of security on our soil. Slovenia is still a relatively safe country at this point, not as it was. He can't be excluded from the environment he's in. However, it can do everything to preserve as much of this security as possible. Not only is it an absolute duty, I say with all responsibility, of any policy to ensure this security to its citizens and citizens, because security alone is at the same time the foundation of prosperity. But also because it is in the great interesting development potential of Slovenia. This is a fundamental development advantage Slovenia can continue if it maintains security. If Slovenia is a securely civilized area in the Islamic West, then capital will be transferred here by entrepreneurs. If she is part of the Eurabia, then of course everything that is smart and capable and has money will move out; and this is already happening. Then, of course, the migrants will come. And here's what we're talking about today. Only four countries, ladies and gentlemen, are currently implementing the quota system in the European Union. So much for a government she doesn't understand. Only four, one of them is Slovenia, which is even — you will not believe — in the first place, because it works even superstandardly, above what is agreed. It would have been called a hamlet, because before Brussels it must be knee-deep, because it is broken by various Jews and everyone else there is a horror. And look, ladies and gentlemen, according to the quota system – let's freshen up the memory a little bit. Mr Cerar said exactly two years ago: "The quota system is good, for Slovenia it will mean 16 to 20 women and children." This is a quote, go check it out!16 to 20 migrants. 16 to 20 – come on! There were 100 migrants in Slovenia at the time of the new year. So far, according to official information, the last one I have is 818 asylum seekers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, 200 have escaped. The Secretary of State will correct me if there are any changes in these figures, but there are probably no significant changes, except that the Government is still importing migrants. And he's just importing migrants! An even greater shot to the knee in such situations as they are now in the European Union is what the Government is working alongside; according to the official findings of the Court of Auditors, the Government is spending thousands of Euro963 taxpayers each month for every migrant on Slovenian soil. To put it domestically, three Slovenian workers are working this moment for one migrant! One migrant receives more money than four Slovenian pensioners. And Slovenia is supposed to be a legal and social state, as stated in the Constitution. Under this government, never, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, It's such a mess that you can't even say it! And then the Prime Minister comes in and says, "Wait, only 400 euros of this is a net cost to a migrant, and the rest is the cost of hiring employees who do that." [[…]] Or would these jobs be all if there were no migrants? Yeah, they wouldn't be, so they're net costs for migrants. And of course, the Court of Auditors is right, because this is an official finding by the Court of Auditors and Hayek is right. Von Hayek, a Nobel laureate for the economy, once said very well, "if leftists really understood the economy, they would never be left-wings." But it's really a simple world. And then we get to the goats, because this is already the shooting of goats of capitalists, as it would have been called in Gorenjska, such as the procurement of thousands of 350 condoms for migrants. And when someone from the SDS Government asks that question, he gets back: "Yes, that's what you do?!" No, ladies and gentlemen, this is what you do in the government and the government coalition! We're just saying that it happened, the invitation was prepared by you, performed by you, and paid you — unfortunately from our money. For what says one another the known wisdom of the left? The leftist will always point a long way into the future so you won't notice how far his other hand is in your pocket and wallet. And even in Slovenia, this moment is exactly the same. Ladies and gentlemen, what is going on should never have happened because it is illegal, because unethical things are happening because they are in fundamental contradiction to the human values on which independent Slovenia was founded and which were in fact the foundation of the European Union at the time it came into being. Unfortunately, today the European Union has lost its literal contact with reality in a wide range of areas, but in particular a large part, unfortunately, of politicians, particularly in Brussels. Why did this happen? One was the pacification that gave birth to its second division, the bloc's, and the third that was most important. Europe has simply gotten used to acting like a spoiled child who is partying. But if someone looks at him uglyly, he says, "Uncle Sam, they looked at me uglyly." And Uncle Sam came, and he made his move twice, and Europe continued to party. But then things changed, in America was President Barack Obama, a Muslim himself, and he started in everything that happened in the area of Islamisation, not only to tolerate, but to hold the stand, according to the Gorenje word; and it took eight years. And the results are here. His greatest ally was Erdogan. So Erdogan was able to afford amazing things, and today he allows them. Erdogan, you will not believe this, ladies and gentlemen, because this Europe with the kind of people it currently has in Brussels is not ready for its own defence, you have allowed this to threaten everyone in Europe. You, too, to me, to everyone, when he said, no one in Europe would be safe unless you disobeyed everything and fulfilled all the wishes that Mr Erdogan has. Did you know that Mr Erdogan mentioned the development of nuclear weapons before? Do you know that Mr Erdogan has the most powerful classical army, a classic army that is stronger than all the armies of the European Union with the British, except for the thermonuclear weapons of France and Great Britain? That you will create a picture of what Europe is facing at all. There's been this problem ever since when radical Islam is decided by people who don't know it. Take my word for it; you need to see it from a close, experience it from a close, not a week, for a longer time, so that you can judge what it really is. It's something so far from our way of thinking that you can't imagine. I'm telling you a case I personally saw in Turkey. Even if it once was a secular state — Atatürk separated Islam from the state. Unfortunately, Erdogan has now destroyed all of this and has gradually Islamized it so strongly and thus so much that it is something that represents a very big problem for the whole world, and for the European Union it is very bad. The last time I was there, I was only two blocks from the main shopping center in Istanbul, the most European city in Turkey, on a side street and someone with a metre pole beat a woman in a burka. There were two cops standing there, laughing all the way to tears and encouraging him to talk. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the real image of Turkey that no one will tell you! And that's coming to us now. This was imported before by the European Union in a non-critical year and years legally, and then passed on illegally. Then he turns to words. So, yes, why are you afraid of migration? Nobody's afraid of migrants, I say again. I fear those who open the door to radical Islam, because everyone who decides to do so, ladies and gentlemen, should spend six months there, and then believe that it would be a damn different decision in Slovenia and even in Brussels when these things occur! Because you know what he's dealing with. But who, for example, thinks that he knows Islam, knows someone from Bosnia – you must have all been there before. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no place for radical Islam! He hasn't been there for 100 years, but he's imported after the war in the Balkans, when the mujahids came, when different groups of radical Islam came and now they're spreading like metastases, and they don't like to be seen there. And you need to know that these people, who maybe someone understands as representatives of true Islam, the Bosnians, the classical Bosniaks, are faithless to them. It's something else. Only when you understand that when you know that, you know what you're dealing with. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, for Europe and Slovenia, there is only one real option, only one rational option to cut this off: to absolutely stop importing migrants from the field of radical Islam and to send radical Islam to where it came from. Once and for all, there will be no more Europe. Yesterday there was a fine example of something that should never have happened in modern Europe. The London mayor, who is also a radical Muslim himself, declared the dead cold when there was a massacre: yes, you know, that's perfectly normal. You will have to get used to it." By the way, he wasn't the first. The left-wing president of France said that after the attacks in Nice. On that, ladies and gentlemen, we will never get used to it! I never, SDS never! However, we will easily get used to living without such politicians who are responsible and who advocate this. I firmly believe that everyone in Slovenia thinks that way in a healthy mind. It would therefore be good to adopt a proposal for a referendum. You rejected the proposal for a SDS referendum, tabled in good time a year ago. You have now broken down on the committee a proposal for a referendum proposed by Mr Chuš. But sooner or later, we're gonna have to face it, and you're gonna have to face it. The wave of migrants is getting stronger again. Reporting, of course, from Soros paid left-wing media, is – sorry, should be accompanied by a vomit bag sometimes – “They saved 6,000 people from the Mediterranean in one day!” Oh, come on! Do you know what this looks like in practice? Do you know what that looks like? To get the ships of these non-governmental leftist organisations to the open sea, they move them from the boats of migrants and take them to Europe. But sometimes warships help, if it's more of a stormy sea. It's nice not to let people drown, but, ladies and gentlemen, we should take them back where they came from, not take them to Europe! And don't think it's not planned. When there was an Italian delegation hosted by us in the framework of the Central European Initiative, someone said nicely: “Yes, we will import some 4 million more into Italy, and then we will stop.” Approximately this was the Italian translation of something that was said at the meeting, but this was an Italian socialist who declared it. Do you all understand what this means? And then, believe me, this same Italy will come and say that we have to be solidarity, share that burden. Oh, run, come on! What you've cooked, eat! The problem is that we must be aware that the European space is interconnected, vulnerable, shared by the common Christian culture, Christian tradition and Christian values and the values of enlightenment, which together form the foundation of a modern democratic united Europe. It's collapsing today, and it's collapsing on purpose. And that's not done by some poor fugitives running from war. True fugitives here, ladies and gentlemen, no, I've said that many times. The real refugees in the European Union are the ones they are silent about – a million Ukrainians are in Poland today! These are the real fugitives who fled from the attack of the pro-Russian forces on Crimea in Donetsk. And these, by the way, Germany rejected 99.998 percent in its eternal shame at the border. And these same people say that it is necessary to open wide and that absolutely nothing should be limited when it comes to refugees from a region of radical Islam. These double criteria, ladies and gentlemen, are an eternal disgrace to the European Union and to those leading it, from Mr Juncker to Angela Merkel. It's a great honor for the Poles to save the honor of Europe again! Those who are coming, ladies and gentlemen – do you even know the composition? There are between 66 and 80 percent of the young themselves, fighting capable men. What kind of fugitives are these, then? No women, no children, no elderly practically nothing. But from the war zones? Oh, run, come on! And you know that the highest percentage ever measured from Syria in one major wave was 28 percent, and the rest were others. These are official data, you can check them out, from official UN organisations and so on. And that the vast majority, especially in the first wave when they were, were all, from Kosovo to Algeria, to Morocco – and with these, by the way, is a bigger problem than the others. And now Africans are coming from countries where there is no war. In fact, it is a purely ordinary economic migrant flow, before which Europe would not only have all legitimacy but also the duty to close the external borders and consistently implement it with all the democratic means it has. And then Europe should collapse everything that is radical Islam. We hear that story very often, you see, because that's who they were before. Where did they come from, ladies and gentlemen? They're migrants. They just might have come a little early. And this network of radical Islam goes to Slovenia, not to be deceived! Ladies and gentlemen, as long as this is the case here and as long as you are here from the ruling coalition, as it has just been, yawning or expressing discomfort, it means that you are unfit to perform the function and trust that people have given you — those who do so. You also proved this by rejecting once again the possibility that people would decide for themselves at the referendum, who could enter and who could not. The country is essentially home, home to all who live here, and everyone knows that those who live in the home have the right to decide who enters this house. And home is locked, ladies and gentlemen! The house is locked; not because they would hate those who are outside, but because we love those who live in the house.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u9	Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to give you a slightly different position as the predecessor of the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the Limitation of Immigration and the refusal of the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union. Exactly a year has passed since we have dealt with and decided on a similar proposal for an advisory referendum on, if I may say more broadly, migration issues. Undoubtedly, this move was expected, only this time the applicant goes even further. Citizens and citizens would decide, on the basis of the proposal by the proposer, to reject the quota system for the allocation of migrants across the European Union. As pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it is not clear from the proposal whether the applicant proposes to the National Assembly a call for an advisory referendum on the accommodation of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia or whether it is against the so-called quota system. So, legally speaking, the referendum issue alone is not clear, which suggests that Member Hearst of this so-called project went first because of the collection of political points and certainly not because of the concern of citizens and citizens, as he himself states in his initiative. For more than a year now, we have been hearing that the migrant wave will now continue and even increase, that we do not have a regulated situation in the police and the military, that the Government of Migration is not properly engaged, and that is why people in municipalities where the Government intends to establish migrant centres are protesting. At present, this is happening in the Škofias and we cannot pass over the fact that it was precisely the political waning of the people, all with the aim of winning as many votes as possible in the next elections. It is essential that, despite some problems, the government has successfully addressed the problems of the refugee wave. There were no serious security complications and none. Even though almost half a million people have crossed Slovenia, the safety of the population has not been compromised. Last but not least, in this National Assembly, we have adopted legislation that, at the possible mass wave of refugees, will trigger certain measures to contain the wave, and time will show whether we did the right thing. I am convinced, however, that we do not want all those who sit here to see the situation in which we should also cut down after these measures in the future. We all agree that it is necessary to find common solutions to the migration problem at European Union level, of which Slovenia is also a part. The rejection of the quota system would constitute a breach of the commitments under the Resolution on Immigration Policy from the time the Republic of Slovenia initiated the process of approximation of the European Union and the Resolution on Migration Policy. So the documents, which still form two pillars in the entire migration policy area. Unfortunately, it is best to point the finger at the European Union at the moment, to look for culprits in European politics, but the fact is that we will all have to work together as Europe to find the right solutions to the problem of migration, and Slovenia is very successful in doing so. It will be necessary to adapt to the new situation and also to assume its part of humanitarian responsibility. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that Slovenians are always ready to help more vulnerable groups, as we have shown many times in the past. Therefore, in addition to the security of our citizens and citizens in solving the refugee crisis, it is of paramount importance that we all be solidarity. We will not support the proposal in the Desus Group in the light of the above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u11	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u12	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The content of this item reopens the debate on people coming to Europe in a mass way because of wars, geostrategic positions, oil and other sources of energy, because of religious belief and more and more because of climate change and as a result of lack of water and food. These reasons are a fact and will remain. This is why we are talking about migration today about a mixture of economic, political and social factors that includes both factors in the country from which the migrant comes and forces him to leave as factors in the country that attracts him. If we put this issue within the historical framework, we can agree without any major objection that Europe has always been called for coercion because of economic well-being and political stability, but at the same time either because of the need for growth and today because of the ageing population, the immigration labour force is very much needed. However, depending on European needs, the attitude towards migration, the attitude towards immigrants, has often changed. In particular, this relationship has changed in the face of a severe economic crisis that has stifled Europe for the past decade; the situation in Europe has been reduced by the need for immigration. This is not to be overlooked, however, by the fact that, in the time of the refugee wave, European politicians or, above all, by the help of our Slovenian case, the proposaler of this point has also greatly exacerbated the anti-migration, nationalist and, in many cases, racist discourse, and this discourse is being brought back to the streets from a political space. This initiative, if supported by a consultation referendum on limiting coercion and rejecting the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across Europe, would spark this negative discourse towards these people in this referendum campaign. As before the good year, the Social Democrats opposed the invitation to a referendum on migration, we are also opposed to this today. We absolutely do not want to support an individual who wants to build his political existence at the point of human rights. While we can understand the proposer of this point in the Group of Social Democrats, following a call for an advisory referendum on the limitation of coercion and the rejection of the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union, this intention is unacceptable. Your Honor! Demagic has no room these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u13	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. You know, when we get Members up here for this pay phone, the clock on the screen measures the time of our performance, usually in minutes, seconds and hours, except when Comrade Grims comes up here – his appearances are measured in lies for a second. With the proposaler of today's point there is no better thing to do, there comes up here and a kennel about the thousand-year dream of the Slovenian people. If I had listened to high school history, where he probably had his grades, I would have known that the nations were the thing of the 19th century and the last 200 years, and some such thing as a thousand-year dream and national existence and so on — in fact, there is no such thing. After all, we do not need to import religious extremists from elsewhere, from the Middle East, Islamic origin and so on, because we have our own absolutely enough; here, from right-wing seats, our nation is being terrorised just by Parliament. If I move on to the position of the Group of Members. As is practical at each meeting of the National Assembly, this time one item of the agenda is intended to spread hatred, xenophobia and intimidation. Only the proposers change. Once it's the government, once it's the SDS, but today it wants its five minutes of fame yet unrelated MEP Andrej Chuš. Although it is now quite clear that the situation of two years ago simply cannot be repeated that the fences are already set, that the borders are already closed, the rhetoric of intimidation and hostility continues; once in the National Assembly, for the second time in the form of all possible party-led civilian initiatives. The political right wants a public opinion, which it has turned against refugees through intimidation and populism, to make the most of as much use of as possible, and it is actively assisted by the Government, led by the Minister of the Interior. The Minister for the Consequences of the Scare Policy, with the support of the Right, is now taking advantage of all possible increases in repression. So we found ourselves in a paradoxical situation where the borders are closed, there are virtually no new refugees, but the government and the right have somehow adapted to the fact that it is easier to rule over frightened people. Therefore, panic and intimidation continue to spread, although there is no reason to do so. At a time when the situation in practice has calmed down, we have an excellent opportunity to resolve the problems faced by those refugees who are with us. It is an excellent opportunity to establish effective integration mechanisms to provide human resources reinforcements for the rapid and effective handling of asylum applications and to prepare a new contingent plan. But no. Instead, we continue to address the question of how to close the border as closely as possible, how to undermine human rights as possible. The government, with its coalition and the support of the political right, continues to support the military conflicts and poverty of the Middle East countries, travels soldiers abroad and helps to net new wars, such as at the Russian borders. And then people who are victims of these smells, they close their borders and give up their help. The West and the Slovenian political class also export war and corporate looting of the countries of the global south, and before the consequences, they are fenced with wire. Of course, we do not claim in the United Left that current migration trends do not need to be dealt with, but that increasing repression, hermetically closing borders and beating human rights is not and cannot be a solution. On ensuring successful integration, on the consistent provision of assistance to Italy and Greece, on the rapid integration of refugees into society, on how to provide refugees with at least minimum living conditions – no debate on this. For both the Government and the political right come the external enemy; someone who can blame him for all the problems in our society. In this place, we'll be in the United Left, probably getting our readings back that we care a little about our people. And this from the mouth of those who, in 2012 with a single law, intervened and restricted the rights defined in as many as 39 different laws, and from the mouth of those who took more than a year to provide poor children with a free hot meal and we pressured them and practically begged them to go through the National Assembly for this action in the United Left. Well, in the same period without shame, bad news and smart argument, these same people gave the richest 10 per cent of the population 60 million euros; at the same time, they refused to raise the minimum, limit leniency, eliminate the return on social assistance, raise money social assistance, write off debts to the poor and so on, as we have proposed in the United Left. But when it's impossible to find valid arguments, it's time to manipulate and discredit. Refugees are not to blame for the rise in poverty in Slovenia, they are not to blame for the high unemployment rate, they are not to blame for poor pensions and a minimum wage, which does not even guarantee basic, or even decent survival. Nor are the refugees responsible for the increasing exploitation of workers; all of this is due to these and past governments in front of the capital. By introducing austerity measures, they specifically deepened the social pressures of people and then used exactly the same tactics as they used today — a policy of intimidation. Even then they reached out to an external enemy, but only then did our existence threaten the Trinity and the collapse of public finances, but today refugees took on this role. In the United Left, we demand that it be stopped by intimidation, that it stop spreading hatred and intolerance, building walls and increasing repression in general. However, it is time for a debate on how to get out of the war and not allow for new ones, how to ensure rapid and effective integration for the refugees who have sought protection in our country, and how, together, both refugees and citizens, to ensure a decent life, eradicate poverty and restore social statehood. That is why we urge the political right to stop the wave of growing hatred and right-wing populism in the government and coalition, which quietly holds the stand. The unacceptable and even unconstitutional referendum on the restriction of immigration is precisely this. We need to give protection to everyone who needs it. We must offer assistance and adequate protection to people fleeing wars and situations in which it is impossible to survive. Pika! And the debate before us should never have happened, let alone keep repeating it from the meeting of the National Assembly. The same should not be true of cutting wire, militarisation, new Law on International Protection, Law on Foreigners, New Police Law, Mass Control and Paralyzers. Nor should an agreement between the European Union and Turkey and the closure of the Greek-Macedonian border take place. We not only oppose the proposal for a referendum in the United Left, we strongly condemn it, but we expect the coalition to finally end the spread of intolerance and intimidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u15	Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! If, until recently, peace and security within the great European family of nations were to be perceived as something self-evident, in itself, this is not yet the case. At first, we were hit and sobered by the economic crisis, which in some ways was just and only an introduction to the worst migration crisis on European soil, the worst since World War II. This is far from over, at least if we look at events in the Middle East, particularly in Turkey, where things are getting very tighter. And even in 2015, partly in 2016, we were only silent observers without an adequate common European response when they faced an increasing number of immigrants and, indeed, today both Italy and Greece. The lack of a single common response by the Member States has resulted in a sudden and uncontrolled migration flow across the Balkan countries with a view to achieving the promised country, Germany, in other words. That's when we came to a serious test of managing the migratory flow, too, to crucify ourselves in the search for an appropriate solution. Now, for the first time, security is certainly one of the basic tasks that the state has. And the migration crisis is primarily about this. Last but not least, it is the existence of the European Union, in fact, such a European Union as we have known it so far. It is said that the European Union, as without borders, the European Union as a country of peace, the European Union with such identity and sovereignty, and for this culture as well as the value system. And since we obviously cannot count on an active common European strategy to deal with migration in the future, we had to deal with the adoption of appropriate legislation, which we also supported in New Slovenia, and therefore have prepared a basis for how many people who really need help – and we can never and must never deny it – we can accept it. And that's the second element. What are our abilities? Slovenia can take care of a certain number of people, but it cannot take care of all people who want, for example, to come to Slovenia and get shelter here. It is a utopia that some want, but it is Namreč, Slovenia has no unlimited possibilities. [[…]] It is precisely that the European Union has not acted, that it is not that measures in the matter of migration are not an economic, security issue here, that is, in fact, the key reason for the so-called ‘populism’ in Europe. In fact, the etablished policy has led to the fact that today we are witnessing the emergence of populism on European soil, and this is far from over in the face of election forecasts, for example in France. For this reason, it is crucial for policy to propose solutions to the migration problem, otherwise we will witness a renewed wave of populism and demagogicism, and in this way all relations within the European Union as well as the fundamental idea of the fathers of Europe are broken. For this reason, Christian Democrats support any debate and appropriate solutions that would make migration flows manageable. Unfortunately, despite the maybe well-intentioned, the tool of the consultation referendum is not that tool, in fact, we believe that in this case it can only be a costly public research, or very precisely, perhaps a strong political signal, but, on the other hand, despite the result of the consultative referendum of the legislator or the government does not commit anything to anything. We Christian Democrats are therefore convinced that the Government, in the first place, on the second, also the National Assembly of course, is obliged through the legislative process to provide the conditions for all of these. First of all, to ensure security for Slovenian and European citizens. So, without consulting referendums and without unnecessary costs for its implementation, because regardless of the result, this ruling coalition will, of course, deny this result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u17	Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and co-workers and everyone else! Allow me to present the position of SMC. So, we're talking about a thank-you political subject that is still very topical in terms of negative populism or so-called Trumpism, it's like, it fits into the ear and sounds patriotic and, of course, it's really media-friendly. Today, for the fourth time in the last 17 months, the National Assembly will address migration issues at its plenary session. Not to mention that the last issue has been addressed by the working bodies eight times in special sessions, Members and Members have asked the competent ministries over 60 questions regarding the migration crisis. Otherwise, the National Assembly will not believe that at the next April session it will face this issue again about the recommendation on the action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the migration issue proposed by the SDS Group. All these initiatives and proposals, i.e. a number of demands for the convening of urgent meetings of the Council of State bodies, proposals for consideration at the plenary meetings of the assembly, many Members' questions testify to the fact that, on purpose, a continuous climate of fear and emergency is created, although the Balkan path in such dimensions as we have witnessed a year ago does not exist anymore, despite the fact that migration flows have been calmed since the conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. A comparison of the explanation of the proposal for the invitation to tender for the consultation referendum on setting up migrants in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted last year by the SDS Group, is intended to be considered essentially for some kind of recycling of the current new proposal, which is somewhat updated with current data. The issue of quotas is related to the common asylum policy or Council of Europe Decision 2015/1532, and, if we may say so, the unfortunate wording is particularly embarrassing. The colleagues themselves from the SDS Group pointed out at a meeting of the Committee that it was essentially a recast of their old proposal from one year ago. In addition to the fact that Mr Chuš proposed a consultative referendum exactly one year after the Government adopted a plan for the implementation of the relocation and permanent resettlement on 10 March 2016. And if we take away the Trumpian populist rhetoric that has been used in the explanatory statement and we have received it both at the meeting of the committee and today at the meeting of the assembly, it is not clear from the proposal whether it proposes an invitation to a consultation referendum on the restriction of immigration in general or merely on the concrete rejection of the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union. And second, which is not clear what is meant by the quota system for illegal migrants. In the framework of the quota system, this is how we talk about transfers and resettlements of persons in need of international protection. I will not go into the details of what is meant by each other, but by the way, I would like to say the following for information; in 2010, the Republic of Slovenia participated in the Eurem pilot project, which included the relocation of persons who were granted international protection in Malta. At the same time, let me say that the resettlement scheme is going on, you won't believe it since the end of World War II. Notwithstanding all this, Slovenia, as a Member State of the European Union, is committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system and sharing the burden and solidarity between Member States in the reception of refugees. Slovenia, or this government, has adopted quotas in the event of the relocation or relocation of applicants and persons in need of international protection from other EU members or third countries, where they are required to have access to the procedure, with an emphasis on their capacity and resources available to Slovenia, while Slovenia fully respects the Institute of International Protection. In the Modern Centre Party, we condemn any such incitement to fear and the creation of emergency situations specifically by policy. Mr Couch's proposal is unnecessary at this point, as the government is well-managed and therefore it is an artificial creation of extraordinary conditions. It is crucial, however, that all responsible political actors contribute to tolerance, solidarity, constructive dialogue with all stakeholders and avoid all practices that would divide people, promote the expression of radical ideas and extreme attitudes towards any group of individuals. Therefore, in the SMC, we will reject the proposal for a consultative referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you, everyone. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the Proposal for an Advisory Referendum. I first give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Andre Couch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you for your word! I must say that I have listened very carefully to all presentations of the positions of both the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and of the groups of Members in the National Assembly. At first, I would say that I generally agree with those who claim to be Slovenians as such a very solidarity nation. I agree with that. I also believe that it is the task of us, loved by people and representatives of the people, to help people who are hard to survive from day to day or who are barely breaking through. But if perhaps in the 1990s we were able to afford to help thousands of people because of the Balkan war, I think today, in 2017, we regret the situation when we cannot even help ourselves. However, I do not want to discuss the threshold of poverty, the people who barely survive from day to day, until the state of our public finances, to pay one billion a year for the interest of various banks and other legal persons who have lent us money, from the fact that, of course, we owe ourselves excessively from year to year that these times of indebtedness will mainly pay for new generations. So, those people who are barely coming, newborns. And today we're in charge of 16,000 euros per head. So let's ask ourselves what kind of journey this is for a newborn to live in the Republic of Slovenia, and in the long term how this will affect the business environment, the stability of public finances, the pensions in Slovenia. I think it's catastrophic. There's been quite a bit of controversy. Of course I know how it works when a client's in a coalition. He reads the government's opinion a little bit, and by his own show, he changes something, so it would seem a little bit like it's not exactly a reading badge in Parliament, but still. I have completed a general graduation with a threesome, and I will say that I consider myself to be a literate person, and I will read both proposals for conclusions that I made in the text for a referendum: On the basis of Articles 26 and 30 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the National Assembly will adopt a decision on the call for an advisory referendum on the accommodation of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia. And we go to the second conclusion: On the basis of Article 27 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, a consultative referendum will be held throughout the country, so that the referendum question should be raised – I think it is clear so far that I have proposed a referendum in the whole country, i.e. in all eight constituency units and 90 constituencies and of course two additional and, of course, now the question – Do you agree that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts legislation restricting enforcement into the Republic of Slovenia and rejects the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants in EU Member States? [[…]] The voter shall vote by surrounding the word "yes" or the word "against". It's pretty clear to me. Unfortunately, it is true that I am proposing a consultation referendum. I am going to say that I have to go over the ashes, and I am very sorry that I participated in the political trade between the coalition and the opposition years ago when the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative was also adopted, which has sharpened strongly and limited the possibility of a referendum. Even then, when I was kind of accepting this, I had a snorkel in my throat. Today, in early January, when I proposed such a referendum, I looked for any options or commitments, except to ask all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, I am sure that people would attend such a referendum and that they would, of course, reject the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union by means of a plebiscite majority. But, of course, that suggests some kind of withdrawal of the coalition, a modern coalition. Somehow it works like most customers who have won the elections so far, that before the elections everyone is sweet and the best and then the best, and then for three years a little forget about the people available and then again the last year begins to prepare for the elections so that maybe some new tie will be bought, and again it will be as beautiful and like. This is a more beautiful competition than some competition programs and arguments, but a person gets used to it and in the end it's no wonder that we are where we are. Several attacks were mentioned, from what happened in London yesterday to what happened a year ago in Brussels. For example, Belgium still has the highest level of terrorist threat in force today. So their Parliament is prolonging this; of course they are aware of the problems and what is happening. I must say that even in October, I was at an international conference in India, where one of the international experts on security and international relations told me that Belgium was a fine example of a falsified country. So when you somehow forget about your citizens, when you kind of listen to the multicultures of ideas and each person has more rights than your own citizen, and Belgium is now where it is. I would also remind you of the attack in Paris six months ago, when it was also publicly proven and said by the Slovenian police that the attackers in Paris came across the Balkan route [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I have a source, and I'll show it to you. As far as the proposal is concerned. Indeed, this proposal completely rejects migrant quotas. It has been said that we are currently in the European Union four countries implementing legislation or some proposal on migrant quotas, and Slovenia is obviously the most. Otherwise, this is very interesting, but obviously our MEPs and representatives in Brussels, as well as the President of the Government, more means that President Juncker commends him a little, because it will obviously be his best or his greatest achievement in life. Like the former Prime Minister Borut Pahor, he wanted to take prisoners from Guantanamo to take pictures with the President of the United States of America. This is probably the best way of life or a career for a career politician or a diplomat. On the part of the representative of Desus, I have heard some views, as well as between the lines of pixie remarks, if this is some populism, the intimidation of people, the battle for political survival and once again populism. Comrade Kopmeyer, "no shit," come on! You are a populism, your president is a populist couple of excellence since the beginning and poor Slovenian pensioners have been pulled out of elections. A thousand euros will be a minimum pension [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u21	I'm asking you to keep your eyes on your words. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u22	I have to tell you, I'm very careful. Please, well, let's have the same vats for everyone. Furthermore, that the Slovenian government is doing well to curb migration, it has taken care of security. I don't even know if we are talking about migrant quotas, who even gave our Government the consent to apply and implement and agree to join the migrant quota mechanism and assign illegal migrants. I don't know. If I put myself in the position of an ordinary citizen who does not follow so much politics, and he probably cares about a few things in the country, I still think it is an abuse of power in this case. I've also heard that the candidate for such a referendum is a racist, fascist, I don't know what doesn't. But I always say that people who call others impatient are themselves the most impatient. Look, why am I being marked by some extreme clients as a fascist, and if I'm just defending the border and first taking care of my own people? And if I say that we have to put our own people first, and then we help others, you're a racist in Slovenia right now. I think we have a pretty big problem, a lot of things. Otherwise, I would also say that somehow I belong to the Group of European Conservatives and Reformists, personally Eurorealists, the third largest parliamentary group in the European Parliament, close to 80 European Members. They somehow say that it is time to end the rotten compromises concluded by the European People's Party and European Socialists. I think that also many of the parties that are members of the European People's Party are aware that Jean-Claude Juncker and Angela Merkel are not leading Europe in the right direction. So Europe, which was created on the basis of ensuring security, prosperity and respect for personal freedoms. And interestingly enough, speaking of some, I'll say racist and fascist. The leader of MEPs and reformists is Muslim, and I must say that I am working very well with him and also to speak through a personal confession, I have not observed this. But if someone is, of course, mutilating the facts or putting something in my mouth, I pray that he is consistent and apologizes for it. When we also talk about the fact that I've given my own country several hundred years of dream in the text and that I've sprayed history, I have to say that I did the subject of history at the general high school of economics, at the Ptuj School Center, and I think I've done history with a threesome, so I should go through. It wasn't catastrophic, but it wasn't perfect, but probably somewhere in between. Of course, I also have to get my hands on a fellow United Left. Before they came to the National Assembly, the latter were squabbled: Members to the minimum. I see that the rhetoric has not changed in these three years in the National Assembly, but the acts are because I have not yet heard Mrs Tomić say and propose that we give Members to the minimum. Even the opposite! One of your members of the parliamentary group even said that Slovenia should accept 200,000 migrants. And my colleague Kordish thinks that instead of asking how many migrants have you accepted into your apartment – that is, your parliamentary apartment, I think, not the apartment in Škofja Loka – but how many migrants have you accepted into yours – if you have taken the parliamentary apartment 60 square meters – so how many have you taken? In fact, I remember some of the public invitations to work with migrants and that they were also given private rental facilities, but then there was no action from many of the people who gathered at conventions in the Congress Market, but there was only a full mouth. Even if we're talking, where did I even speak in the presentation of positions and even through the fugitives so far? [[…]] All I said was that refugees and migrants should be separated; therefore, those who are not at risk have no war and have the possibility of legally crossing borders. I also have data from Germany and will present it further. I also agree with my colleague Vrtovac when he says that security is a prerequisite for a successful economy, finance and also a business environment. And as long as, of course, there are many fears and reasonable suspicions and fears about things in Europe, of course, the European Union as such is losing out, because in a number of countries foreign investors are deciding to move their investments or even to close their installations. However, I also have to ask myself somehow whether today, as a citizen of Slovenia or as a citizen of the European Union, I could go without documents to Greece for a visit to Syria. I think I might need some papers. Indeed, even when I am alone as a Ptujcan daily in contact with people who are driving to Austria to work and have to work in Austria to survive because they do not want to be home in a social state. Thus, migrant workers had to travel an hour or two earlier during this most acute crisis to Austria, to Graz, Lipnica, and Vienna, so that they could get across the border and get to work at the right time, and no one listened to them. Comrade Ferlug, you like to use the word “trumpov” What I do know, it seems to me that Trump is the first politician to actually do what he predicted and what he promised, and from this point of view certainly belongs to non-classical politics. [[…]] I would also like to recall what happened yesterday in London, but I do not want to talk about it again when we talk about the relationship between the European Union and Turkey, and I will be very critical of the Slovenian government myself. In fact, so far, Austria is the only country actively advocating the suspension of Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union – and I also somehow share the opinion of Austrian Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz, who says that Turkey under Erdogan is not even nearly part of the European Union, and I hope that there will be more such voices in the National Assembly. I would also ask if you might know what the dictator Erdogan said at the Ankara convention yesterday: “If you continue to treat us like this, beware of us!” One day before that, he said: "Turks in Europe, you are the future of Europe; not three but five children!" So, I think Erdogan is clearly showing some hatred for the European Union, and on the other hand, he was comparing us with racists, fascists, I don't know everything, and it seems to me that Erdogan has a lot of common points with some parliamentary groups in this national assembly. Otherwise, I only hope, but the fact is, it is. Now, let me go a little bit through chronology, what was going on during the migration crisis and what was going to happen, because I think Erdogan is going to break contact with the European Union or the European Union will be forced to stop them alone, then we know what is going to happen next in Europe – the opening of the migration routes, including the Balkan routes, in the meantime new ones are coming, and it will be a complete rush into the Balkan path. Macedonia's stability is at stake, we must all be so fair and give thanks and recognition to the Macedonians that they have then defended the borders of the European Union and they are not even members of the European Union. Somehow the European Union is constantly critical of what is happening in Macedonia, criticising the authorities and, on the other hand, without Macedonia – I do not even hope to think about what would happen in Europe today. See what Prime Minister Cerar said in April 2015? “Slovenia will accept between 15 and 20 refugees”. Of course, we all know clearly what has happened since then. If we move on. The Minister of the Interior said that the officers were well taken care of. I don't know if they were well taken care of. [[…]] In addition to some basic things, I think that SMC party also had in the pre-election programme the exemption of police officers from the salary system of public servants – this is not what they do – and it was similar for soldiers. In the end, the civilian population had to bring food to police and soldiers because it was better provided for migrants. Not to talk about equipment and working conditions – after several changes together. If I somehow continue with these statements, which I have a lot more. President Cerar said in September 2015 that Slovenia had a great deal to deal with the refugee migrant crisis and had set an example of good practice in the EU. So, about five, six months took him to realize that they were also migrants. But I don't think we've set any examples of good practice. If only one illegal migrant crossed our border, it was too much and the borders fell. We have not been able to protect the Schengen area and this is, of course, a strong principle of our credibility in the European community. I am only afraid of what will happen when Turkey brings migrants from the south to the European Union and what will be the more intense return of migrants to Germany. Then also Mr State Secretary, you said in August that migrants would only cross Slovenia. But, you know, most people have crossed, but we still don't know what's gonna happen. And here I think that nothing illegal migrants are the only real security policy. Also, some Aliens Act, which has been a lot of pumping both in our media and in the international community – I do not think that the Foreigner Act brings anything new, except that we are, of course, implementing or adopting an extraordinary situation, as it has already done in Slovenia and this is it. Maybe there's a sharpen or two, but we're all still talking casually about the fugitives. In doing so, we rely solely on the words of people, of all migrants who come, asking them where you come from, what you've done in the past, and we don't know, well. [[…]] The operation of security and intelligence services is also highly questionable and one reason for concern further. Here I agree with the representatives of some parties who say that the Security Intelligence Service should, of course, be reset or re-established. Instead of facing today different opinions and suggestions on how to deal with the migration crisis, some of you today represent refugees as from the God of the day. Of course, we will expect in vain that the humanitarian and compassionate representatives of the political extreme left will move from words to actions and accept a refugee or migrant. After the outbreak of the crisis, between 2009 and 2014, some 20,000 Slovenian citizens moved out of Slovenia, all of which were mainly to the European Union countries, and instead of those representatives of these political options wondering which wars are to blame for the refugee wave, they would rather ask who is to blame for the Slovenian economic migrants. Nobody cares about that question. We can ask the Union of Migrant Workers from Maribor or before it was in Apache, several solutions were proposed, several clients and SDS and New Slovenia – but nothing. Once again, if we are not able to protect and protect the terrace, how will we protect the country for you? Please tell me that. However, I must say this, because I come from Ptuj myself, when he somehow organized himself first, I think that, a peaceful protest, there was only one incident, which then most of the people present strongly condemned and calmed him down, comes from people in Slovenia the feeling that people are being divided into first-class or second-class people, and it seems to me that with this migration crisis we have become second-class Slovenes; because everyone else comes through better than ourselves. Here, yesterday I saw on social networks and also in the media that we give 25 euros a day for food alone, for every migrant 5 meals a day, without pork, of course, to the citizens. Now I'm going to ask you, I've only counted 30 days times 25, I'm going to come up with 750 euros. Now I don't know if you think this is normal or fair, but on the other hand, when we talk about some tax reform, in the context of health reform, how many people work for minimum wage or below. And how many people receive minimum pensions! I always expose farmers to pensions because we have cases full of people in the area of Ptuj who receive 220 euros a month. And they've worked their whole lives, and now they've got a thank you! At the beginning of the year, the Slovenian public was very excited by the information and activities of the Slovenian government, so that in Brežica, Celje, Dravograd, Ilirski Bistrica, Maribor, Murski Soboti, Novi Gorica, Postojna and Trbovljah, as well as Gornji Radgoni will start looking for apartments. So, housing for migrants who will obviously be better taken care of than for their own people. Just look, a dishwasher closet with different additional requirements. Then such demands that I have to take a good look, the door with soft closures, then the diagonals of some kind of television must be and these were not the demands of any nuisance, but the requirements of the Directorate for Real Property at the Ministry of Public Administration. The housing business amounted to EUR 103 000. I hope that we will be able – with some Member, including young people – to point out the housing problem and the seclusion of young people in Slovenia. I hope that we will also take care of young families then, whether we are state housing or the 3,000 apartments that we have at our disposal, but they are empty, of course they are falling apart, and then let's put this on the market. I think you've rejected such a marriage a year and a half ago. I'm very fond of reading the online Cafe Hayek. I have to say, he broadens the horizons more than once and says what's right. You know what happened before the migrant crisis. At that time, Commissioner Pierre Moscovici gave the European Union a chance for more growth and jobs as a result of migrants. And then it was said that we knew roughly who was coming to the European Union. But what happened? Police in Germany, according to the country that predicted the admission of the most illegal migrants, admitted that at this point they had no idea who was coming to their country. It was then said that educated and qualified personnel were coming to the European Union. When a reputable German BMW factory booked 20 jobs for migrants during the start of a new logistics centre, she was disappointed. In six months, they haven't found a single candidate among migrants who would be willing to work and have some minimum knowledge. Thirdly, it has been said that there will be fewer recipients of social assistance among migrants than among locals. Well, don't hold it. Tina Sanadajo, an economist at the Stockholm Economic School, recently suggested that the unemployment rate among migrants is higher than among the local population. As a result, migrants receive more social assistance than locals. The fact or somehow the idea that migrants will have a beneficial impact on the European labour market. Well, how migrants, by entering the labour market in the European Union, will have a monetary impact on the economic growth of the old continent, is worse than witchcraft, or a kind word of thought. The following statement, which was made by economic migrants hundreds of years ago to contribute to the boom of the United States and to migration after the Second World War in Europe, is no reason for it not to be with current migrants from the Middle East. This, however, suggests that there is no mistake, but it is the deception of political corrects and progressives. Indeed, a large proportion of migrants in these two migratory waves came from countries with the same or similar values as target countries. Mr Grims spoke of thousands of refugees from Ukraine who are currently in Poland. Have any of the majority in the National Assembly ever talked about them? Never and never. They probably belong to the European Union more culturally than anyone else. Another error that has been exposed; migrants will contribute to economic growth and thus to the prosperity of the European Union. Look, the European Union is facing two major problems. The first is the increasingly socialist economic thinking of European leaders, and this is about both European socialists and the European People's Party, while the other is the values and culture of migrants. All of this is an explosive mix that will lead to a deadly economic spiral until Europe breaks down economically and collapses. The question is, have we not perhaps missed the time to stop this? When we talk about education and forecasts of how migrants will revive the sleepy economy of the European Union because of the professions and professions that are lacking in Europe. Yeah, I don't know! So early in March this year, three weeks ago, a study by the Cologne Institute of the German Economy said that as many as 9 percent of adult asylum seekers had never attended school and almost a quarter had left school prematurely. I don't know. You speak here many times when you mention various “think tank” that are paid by Soroš and, of course, its extensions, how all are independent. I'm not going to say that this institute is independent, but I trust them a little bit more than I trust my own. I would also like to recall, for example, Australian asylum legislation when we talk about the European Union's lack of unity. Otherwise, I do not agree with the fact that the European Union wants more powers from day to day, more powers, on the other hand, hitherto on strong national sovereign countries, but perhaps we could consider a common asylum policy if the authorities in the European Union took over the countries of the Multi-Garden Group, that is, European conservatives and reformists, who have made it clear that it was sufficient to tolerate sovereignty and move away from the will of the people. Australia started implementing an asylum policy in 2013 under which warships intercept migrant vessels, sending them in a different direction before they reach customs. They are sent either back to their starting point, which is usually Indonesia, either to immigration centres on the Pacific islands, Papua New Guinea, Nauru. When I announced earlier that I would also address the problems with Turkey in this debate. Yes, I miss the greater engagement of the government, including some of the parties, what we think of dictator Erdogan. I think from the last one, I'll say, the failed attempt of a coup d'état, which I think was planned by the regime, terrible things are happening in Turkey. The personal freedoms of the population disappear, are taken away, the death penalty is imposed, which I think is one of the, i.e. the rejection of the death penalty is one of the values and ideas of the European Union and goes completely against the ideas of the European Union, to the latest threats and measurements. [[…]] The European Commission has also drawn attention to the decline in the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedom of expression and the media. It also warned her that the plans for the imposition of the death penalty were not in line with the efforts to become a member of the European Union. I must say that at that time, I asked the President of the party Desus, Mr Karl Erjavac, what is the position of the Slovenian government towards Turkey's accession to the European Union if we are going to take the side of the Austrian Chancellor, who is a social democrat – so here most people would say that he is a leftist or not – and he made it clear that Turkey does not belong to the European Union. Unfortunately, he was the only one who said that and did not receive any support from the Council of Europe. I do not think that Europe and we, as a country of Slovenia, should allow Erdogan to plague us, threaten us, insult us and extort us. Look at what he said at the end of 2016: “Listen to me, if you go any further, the borders will open.” Keep that in mind. Of course, no one took it seriously. And we all know that the Balkan path, a migrant one, has somehow closed itself down solely and solely because of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. So this can happen tomorrow that migrants will be back on the migration path, especially if the situation in Macedonia gets worse and worse. 21 March 2017, Erdogan seeks a racist, fascist and cruel European Union. We just sat there and let it happen. No statement, no press releases. I'm sorry, but in such subjects, we must step together as a nation and tell someone who poses a threat to international peace clearly that he should stop joking – I will be glad to say that the President warned me earlier. In Turkey, however, yesterday Erdogan said that Europeans will not be able to walk safely in the streets completely to the world if they behave as they do today. And I will ask all those present who still have a chance to discuss whether this seems normal to you. We'll look down and leave. Again, Austria is the only active country that has reached at least a partial agreement in the Law on Assembly, thereby limiting the pre-election activities of Erdogan's party in Europe. I hope that we will be our northern neighbours, or I do not support them in everything, especially when we talk about the problem of the Slovenian minority in Austria's Koroška, but here we need to find some common way and positions. The Turkish Foreign Minister Cavusoglu, for example, threatened Germany that their military predecessor, the fifth column, was already there, and then said in the Netherlands that “we did not send our people there to become prisoners”. So they consider sending their people as part of the conquest of Europe. Erdogan also said that the Turks are the future of Europe and that each of them should have at least five children. The Multi-Grace Group – unfortunately the great involvement of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this case was to join the Visegra Group. I share that opinion and belief myself. According to my information, there are currently some problems only on the route Slovenia–Poland, while the remaining countries of the Visegraj Group do not oppose Slovenia's membership or Slovenia's accession to the Visegraj Group. I think that if our diplomacy sometimes went to Poland rather than Moscow, it would be better to provide new partners in the European Union. Indeed, no one knows what will happen to the European Union after the French elections if, in my opinion, Le Penov wins in France, then this is the end of the European Union, and it is also possible that at least the European Parliament in Strasbourg will be abolished. I still have some material to discuss. I may take a few minutes, depending on my time limit, and then leave the rest for further discussion. I'm hoping to get some kind of response, because I don't think there's a new policy for you to say anything, and then you're out of the hall. I read Mr. Keith Miles with interest. I've talked about him before. He wrote a great column in Finance. It is a British man who has also consulted the Slovenian government on several occasions in the economic field and now lives in Slovenia. It also works with “think tanks” in the field of conservativeism and liberalism. He himself believes that for months the lingering confusion and indecisiveness is beginning to avenge the European Union. Its undecidedness is a reminder of its indecisiveness in resolving the crisis in the euro area. First, decisions are delayed or poorly thought out, and then, on the basis of its own interests, Germany decides what it wants and half the countries do not agree and half of them accept it. In which half of us are Slovenians, we know well – as Mother Merkel says, as Claude Juncker says will be. If I keep going. The rule now applies that migrants should be registered in the first country they enter. In some cases, this has been deliberately neglected and the crowds of migrants have been encouraged to cross Greece, Macedonia and Serbia all the way to Hungary. Hungary, which has tried to control the border – they are obviously aware that if the border falls, the state falls — as required by the Schengen Agreement, it has been given insults because of its loyalty, now doing the same and encouraging migrants to continue their journey to Austria and Germany. An organisation such as the European Union, which has been unable to obtain an audit certificate for 19 years for its accounts and whose persons have excessive salaries and excessive resources for representation, is not suitable for harmonising guidelines. In any event, he sees his role, not in cohesiveness, but in governance, despite doubts as to its democratic credibility. Migrants and refugees should not mix themselves with Germany in any way, nor should it determine the policies of the European Union. A few days ago, I read an interesting work, the Fourth Reich, where the authors of the book come from where Hitler failed with military means, the modern Germans succeeded with trade and financial discipline. "Welcome to the Fourth Reich," wrote British Conservative and Eurosceptic journalist Simon Heffer in 2011. The main domain of this book is that the continuation of Heffer's ideas is a period of the fourth Reich for Germany, which means prosperity and growth, and for southern Europe, poverty, unemployment and recession. We are also listening today, Slovenian Prime Minister Cerar says he supports Europe at more speeds, he supports Germany, he probably supports Benelux. What about other countries? I say that Europe more speed means the end of Europe and the rise of some, I will say, extreme movements. Although, if you ask me, we also have extreme movements in Parliament. Look at the United Left! But there's more where that came from. See, the six founding members of the European Union in 1951 with the European Coal and Steel Community — Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands — are certainly not establishing this community to be a hegemon in Germany. British Prime Minister Theresa May visited the United States of America immediately after the inauguration of American President Trump. However, Merklov did quite the opposite — she was loudly attacked by President Trump's executive order to restrict irregular migration to the United States of America. In a recent telephone call, Obama declared her the leader of the free world. Tragic! Neither Merklov nor Obama were leaders of the free world, both of them proved to be one of the greatest threats to our civilization, to our values. Supporting the invasion, the invasion of illegal migrants into Europe, has completely destabilised the European Union. The European Union has been in its biggest crisis, thanks to Obama and Merkel. If Merklo's goal was to destabilise the European Union and lay the groundwork for the Fourth Angel's Reich, she did quite well. Unfortunately, it won't and can't be a story with a happy ending. The European Union needs a normal Germany from the time of Chancellor Kohl, our most powerful trading partner, who has recognised Slovenia as independent among the first. We need the European Union, but not as a federal prowess, but as a strong and strong union of sovereign states. If France comes out of the European Union, the European Union is no longer. There will be no alliance that will sit equally with the United States, China, Russia and other forces in this conflict and unpredictable multi-polar world. It'll be just a European freak, a German puppet theater. In this respect, of course, I would say that I share views with Dr. Crnčec, who, of course, also somehow presented this work in the Slovenian language and in one of the articles. So I have not heard that you would be looking here for some concrete solutions, concrete strong points of view. We do not have strong positions towards the future of Slovenia in the European Union, where we lose our sovereignty from day to day. We do not have concrete strong views on the threats and extortion of Turkey towards the European Union and, of course, to us. We don't have any clear views on what we're going to do with the migrant crisis, who we're going to take, where we're going to settle. I am in the position that the only true security policy is nothing against illegal migrants, and unfortunately there are some differences here; of course, the fact that we must put our own people first, not that we Slovenians are becoming second-rate on our own land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Chief, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the introduction, of course, I must object to any finding that the Slovenian government is working against the interests of Slovenia, Slovenian citizens, to endanger our security by its decisions. Why? This is because it is making a tremendous effort on the one hand to ensure all that is necessary to provide for the small number of people who come to the Republic of Slovenia in one way or another. Here, in particular, I am referring to illegal migration, which, of course, you know, is that in fact, no country has nothing to do with illegal migration. There's practically no such country. Those who have taken the most stringent measures that have set up the fences also have detention for applicants for international protection and so on, still have a relatively large number of illegal migrants and still represent the largest entry point for illegal migration into the European Union. So we can't achieve an absolute zero here and we're never even in the history of Slovenia. That is why people who come and then apply for international protection are, of course, to be taken care of. And that's where the government works. It has also set up an office that will – I am sure – be more effective or be an effective system; I have also repeatedly stressed, even more rational. Thus, of course, there are definitely activities in this area, but also in another area which has been established, as far as security is concerned, as regards the control of the state border, as regards, of course, the protection of the Schengen borders at the same time. Here too are the exact data that Slovenia is doing well because of this, because of course all of those we get directly at the border are also returning to the countries where they came from. And the fact that Slovenia's migration to other countries is virtually non-existent. Last year there were 76 crossings to Austria, one in this year. These are facts, and we can't get past these facts. So Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also proposed concrete measures that we have taken or have taken in this Parliament, which will help us if, of course, there are substantially changed changes in this area. So we're thinking on both sides. It is true, however, that we often face the other fact that we have on the one hand demands that we accept everything, unlimited quantity, without any restrictions, and on the other hand, that we accept no one. The fact is that you also call on us in the National Assembly to build more capacity in line with the contingent plan, that we must have more than a thousand people, more than a thousand applicants for international protection of the ready capacity; on the other hand, it is a requirement — nothing. A better situation is required for applicants for international protection and, of course, for those who then receive this protection. On the other hand – absolutely too high a standard. We have a request to increase quotas for these quotas, which Slovenia has discussed on a number of occasions in the course of the tough negotiations – by the way, of course, the Committee of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs has supported the Government's views, the Committee on Home Affairs and Public Administration has discussed this. So we have dealt with this issue very precisely, including numbers and so on. Of course, on the other hand, there is a requirement — nothing. Of course, this is not going to work, and I initially said what it would mean, of course, if it did. We are criticized when required when we use state capacities. When we proposed a facility, a state-owned, military facility, which the Ministry of Defence could in fact replace in another way, of course we had an extraordinary meeting of the Defence Committee and, of course, we were criticised. When we give empty apartments that have been empty for years, we are untapped – of course we are criticized. When we hire private accommodations, it's not okay again. It's not good. We're being criticized. In short, in these circumstances and in these very different positions, the Government must then, of course, seriously analyse all matters and take measures and adopt them and continue to adopt them. I've also highlighted security concerns. Of course, this is undoubtedly one of the key priorities of this government and of course the Ministry of the Interior, the Slovenian police. Security is certainly a good thing that we have highlighted most of the time in this House on the part of the Government and, of course, we are investing in it. Indeed, in 2015 due to the consequences of past policies, the police were not as well equipped as they are today and this is, of course, the product of this government, this minister. Of course, she also had worse conditions, and that is true. Today we have also repaired partial awards, and now we are negotiating that some things will be resolved or rectified. That's how your eyes can't and of course they can't. As far as we are concerned, we should have a common plan, a strategy, and here I strongly agree with all of you who have discussed this. I myself, in this National Assembly, in these committees of this National Assembly, have repeatedly proposed to this Council of State that we seriously discuss the migration strategy, the long-term strategy, how to deal with, in what way, of course, also create appropriate positions in relation to the European Union, because it will be easier to take our stand there. Of course, there was no special response or will at least I wasn't. Of course, I object to criminalizing every migrant. Not every migrant is a terrorist, not every migrant is a criminal, but indeed, in 2015, since March, when we discussed this, we have repeatedly pointed out the risks posed by illegal migration. And that's a fact and there's nothing, I'll say, to avoid it, and we've also said very precisely what risks are involved. That is why we knew what was ahead, and that is why we were able to prepare ourselves relatively well, regardless of the circumstances we were facing. Maybe some of the data that was mentioned. First, this moment, today, we have 250 applicants for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the relocation is concerned, it has been mentioned that Slovenia is one of the four countries implementing the relocation, let me put it this way. Ireland has so far carried out 53 percent of all its obligations; that is, out of 600, 320 people. Latvia 47 percent – to be only at percentages, can then also be in complete numbers. Lithuania 34 per cent, Luxembourg 40 per cent, Malta 73 per cent, Portugal 37 per cent, Romania 14 per cent, Slovenia – this is data from the beginning of March, 22 per cent, now a little more, because another group has arrived, Finland 51 per cent, Estonia 26 per cent, Cyprus 20 per cent and so on. So Slovenia is not even among the first four, but probably there at the beginning of the second half, about or in the middle. As far as permanent resettlement is concerned, I must say that the Czech Republic has so far carried out 400 announced, 52 from Lebanon and Jordan. For example, for Belgium 597, Austria a thousand 643, Finland 293, virtually 100 percent, France a thousand 200, also more than 50 percent, Germany a thousand 403, Ireland a 100 percent – 520, Italy and so on. Of course, I could still list these countries without killing you too much with this data. In short, what I wanted to say is that this relocation is taking place. The assessment of the Commission is, of course, a little too slow, but it is important that we burden the two most burdened countries at the external border of the European Union; what European legislation requires, of course, and what we expected and demanded, and why things have calmed down and today we have a relatively favourable situation, and we can hope that it will remain that way and, of course, we must do so. Maybe a few more things. Yes, August, hold on when you mentioned my statement, how many there will be, I don't think there's a hundred of what went through Slovenia, so this statement is quite accurate. As far as certain threats are concerned now in the last period that have been expressed. I must say that, from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, this situation is extremely closely monitored every day; each day, we personally, individually, evaluate, assess what can happen, where the key risks are, and, of course, our security forces act accordingly. These threats that have been made are, of course, subject to a thorough assessment and assessment of the possible consequences or to an assessment of what they might mean. What is true for the European Union - Turkey - this agreement is, of course, and we have also repeatedly said in public and in this national assembly that this is one critical point which could lead to a significant increase in illegal migration in the future. No dilemmas. This is why, of course, efforts are being made to ensure that this agreement is maintained in some way and that these illegal migrations are under control. Slovenia or the Ministry of the Interior also cooperates well with all the countries so-called V4. We have constant contacts, and we exchange opinions, views, and cooperation. That is what I think – also what the Minister has said several times in the National Assembly –; of course, with all those who are willing to participate creatively in the management of these situations, we are working with them as closely as possible. I must also reject any intimidation on the part of – what has been mentioned today that the Minister sharpens measures, the Minister and the Government are afraid, causing panic. I think the opposite is true; we are always trying to act calmly, with arguments, to explain, to inform ourselves with a view to pursuing these things wisely, calmly, thoughtfully and in this way we have better results. Of course, integration is an extremely demanding process with all those who warn and warn – of course I absolutely agree. This is a difficult process, but it is important, because if this process is unsuccessful, then of course there are also phenomena that can have a profound impact on our actions. We are aware of this and very much attention is being paid to it. And in the end. Of course, I must refuse to see the Republic of Slovenia consider that these illegal migrations could solve some social employment issues and so on. No, it's certainly not a system that could produce results. Perhaps something small could happen, of course, when we are talking about permanent migration from third countries, when a country that then permits or brings these people is thoroughly checked has a direct impact on the choice and so on. Of course, there might also be some way to pursue some of these goals here, but otherwise not. Of course, I agree here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u25	Mr Andrej Procedurally has the floor, Mr Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can you just ask the Secretary of State to explain the information I said earlier? For it was his that there were 818 asylum seekers, and about 200 out of a total of 100 applications went missing because they were supposed to move on. It's a memorial quote. As I recall, that was said about two months ago. Now, however, Mr State Secretary said that there are only 240 approximately asylum seekers here, while some were still imported under the quota system. Then where did everyone else go?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Secretary of State Boštjan Šefic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much. 800 and some more from my information to the applicants for international protection at some point, according to my information, it was never. But there were, I mean, about 400. That's me. Now, if we can just for a second find some data, how many applications for international protection have been filed and we have also interpreted this a lot in the past, some of them, of course, interrupt this process, leave the country, some of them, of course, express their desire to withdraw the application for international protection. [[…]] There are different situations. I can tell you that in 2016 a thousand 308 applications were submitted, of which 170 were granted. So much for an explanation. At this moment, the number is the same as it is, and they are installed in an asylum home on Vič, Kotnikova and Logatec. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Chief, I understand that you are in a difficult situation when somehow the Minister has put you in this situation. However, in my, almost 50-minute debate, I have asked a lot of questions, opinions, including the Government's desire to define itself, so perhaps, as long as we have a debate today, I would suggest if you could invite the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say what more about the developments in the relationship between the European Union and Turkey. It would certainly be more than just in place. Perhaps the Prime Minister, too, may clarify why he does not approach the initiative of our northern neighbours, namely, the Republic of Austria, to suspend accession negotiations between Austria and – between the European Union and Turkey – I apologize. In the meantime, however, I also sought the statement of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac, who also identified himself what had been going on with regard to the attack in Paris. He said that they would be very naive if they were convinced that only actual refugees came in the refugee wave for economic or other reasons. As foreign minister, as he said, it is difficult to comment on the work of the Ministry of the Interior, in particular the police. He added that it is certainly true that when migrations were the largest, different people came. Once again, I have said that it is necessary to clearly separate refugees and migrants, but you still speak as if it were refugees, and you say, if necessary, when you are cornered. I need to touch the field of transparency. I think the electoral slogan of the Mir Cerar Party was, at the time, ethically, morally, transparent. These three words may be replaced today by “peace, love and God”, but it is only right that we are transparent – may I continue, please, because I hear some comments there? One of the basics of each legal and democratic state is transparency. I think that every net payer in the Slovenian budget has the right to know what a single cent is spent on, if he is interested. And here we see different kinds of information, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's coming is different calculations. I believe someone is taking advantage of calculations that show that migrants cost the most, and on the other hand, the country that shows that this is the least. I may agree that then the truth is somewhere in half, somewhere in between, but if we look at the threshold of poverty in the Republic of Slovenia, that 300,000 people live on the threshold of poverty, but that they work to be poor people, to barely survive, it seems a little unacceptable to me that we spend so much more money on all other things. And I'm not going to talk about other things like health corruption today. And I want to know if we're transparent, one more thing. On Monday, a question was asked about the purchase of condoms; I will not ask about condoms. But I'm interested in what it's like to keep track of this demand and the call for the Ministry. Last time you ask for sports shoes, clothes, underwear, pants, sweaters, socks, sweatpants, shorts, jackets, bras, hats, gloves, umbrellas, towels, sheets and kitchen towels. According to the quantities provided for in the public procurement contract, it is also clear what the current relationship between men and women asylum seekers is. If I'm not mistaken, the country needs about a thousand 550 pants for men and only 300 pants for women. I also did math at the prom, but I don't think that's going to work out, it's not very clear, because we all picture ourselves as men at risk, especially women, children, and here I think we're going to help adult men who should defend their country. But because it is known that the vast majority of people do not come from war zones at all, but then here in Slovenia they apply for asylum because they are told that this is the last normal country probably or is in Schengen, so I don't know. I have statistics here from Germany where migrants come from. I don't know, well, you can fix me, but Senegal, Bosnia, individuals without states, Bangladesh, Iran, Gambia, people who don't tell where they're coming from, Macedonia, Russia, Somalia, Nigeria, Ukraine, Pakistan, Serbia, Eritrea, Iraq, Albania, Afghanistan, Kosovo. They're just countries where I don't think there's a war going on. Maybe one or two of them are some kind of hotspots and something's going on, but we definitely can't let illegal economic migrants come in now and pretend they're refugees or they're at risk. But here I think we've completely failed as a country, because if we're talking to someone, we're just talking to the words of people who are coming, and people are willing to say a lot of things. The professional skills of people who worked on the border, of course translators and so on, we could see that they were not exactly on the level. For such statistics, I apologize, but it seems to me that we are more likely to help migrants and not nearly any refugees. But if we are united, we know somehow international law, and we also know what the definition of a refugee — to the first safe country — and we should also advocate that we help refugees as many as possible in some territories where they are being held, where, because of their cultural, ideological, we can say sociological characteristics together to organise education and, of course, all additional care. Not nearly, I don't know, but I think we need to make sure that they are helped outside the European Union, not in the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Maybe I'll go back a little bit. Slovenia or our country led the European Union during the time of the government of Janez Janša. At that time, not only did we put Slovenia on the European map of large countries, but also on a global map. Our successful presidency was then recognized by many, many; both in public and in various performances, as well as in many other forms. That's a fact. And Slovenia meant something at the time as a country. Her word meant something. They took her word seriously. Today, Your Honor, I have a feeling that this is not the case. One is definitely the state of the country, the other is certainly the clumsy government we have. Today, I think we're the crumbs of the whole system and that one, the sky-digestion with which it's the power to bridge in the simplest way. This is also true when we are talking about the quota system. Today, in Slovenia, even in this national assembly, the Commissioner for Human Rights is in a hurry. I'm being honest, but I'm honestly asking what that basic purpose of his coming is. I know, I know he's visiting a lot of countries, but I'm wondering if he stopped in Poland first, if he went to neighbouring Hungary, if it's Slovenia that needs one punch again, to succumb to other weaknesses that we have. Of course, at the time of the government of Janez Janša there was economic growth, the lowest unemployment and so on, the second child had free kindergarten, we had a larger number of children, it would be one natural increase, it seemed to go really further. Today, this situation is completely different, upside down. This brought us sooner or later to the government of Borut Pahor and then to this day. I wonder justifiably what the problem is is that someone is rejecting the referendums. This is such important issues for the whole country that it seems to me that such a referendum would in fact be a burden for the ministry that covers this area, because it is not possible to fight against citizens, but it is not at the end of the day. You can offer different solutions, you can do a lot of things, but people are the ones who finally decide their destiny. It is true, I agree, two years ago or two and a half years ago, that security in this country was something self-evident; the value that we had and even young people were not aware of at all. After this so-called wave or the hit of migrants, the situation changed, people became frightened, people began to think more and with various terrorist events across Europe found that we are not an oasis in Slovenia. We all know that Britain, for example, has decided to leave the European Union also because of the topic mentioned above – but what happened yesterday? A terrorist attack at night was confirmed by the chief of police of Great Britain, as confirmed by the leader, I think, the criminal department. In short, it's a fact. That's what's going on. We are not exempt from this either, and we are Europeans. These are our fellow citizens. It really happened a few hundred thousand kilometers away from us, but events in Germany, when teenage girls were attacked when women were attacked, were very close to us, even in neighbouring Austria. See where we actually brought the country? By making our citizens working in neighbouring Austria, because there is no bread at home, they have a partially closed border. These are the results of our actions. And it is true that there is no strategy, but the fact is that the Slovenian Democratic Party, from the outset, has also talked about a broader strategy, but should only be summarized, presented further. It is true, and a hand on the heart, that it depends very much on who presents it; or someone who, within the framework of the European Union, records an authority that represents a country that represents an authority in the European area, whether it is some kind of bar that is actually to be drawn by everyone. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to glue a few thousand more migrants to this bar. And I use the word migrants strictly. Also because of what Member Chuš said earlier when he spoke about certain relationships, and also about the information that the police had published at the time, how many women were coming and how many men were coming. That's a fact. Look, let's remember the times when the war was in the Balkans, when it was really Slovenia, I think it took about 70,000 refugees from neighbouring Bosnia. No one was against it, no one. There were no protests at the time by citizens and citizens, because they knew that people were fleeing the war. I'm happy for all those who have found their second home here and live here today. Some have not even returned after peace has somehow reigned there. But it's not the same. Today we are not talking about the same problems, today we are talking mainly about economic migrants and those who want to change Europe, to change values, cultural and also, forgive, financially. Because it is not a country for which it does not represent a financial moment, but it is true that for one Slovenia it is probably much bigger than for another country, which has a much better situation. Previously, it was said how much we spend on an individual migrant. Look, the Court of Auditors said a thousand 963 euros. This is not a fictitious data, this is not an approximate data, this is the Court of Auditors' conclusion. Now tell us how many people we can help with that amount! It would be right for citizens to answer that question. That the citizens who will go to the referendum and who will be among those who will attend it will be those who I spoke about on Monday on the oral question of the Member of Parliament, who do not receive a minimum wage in the company which distributes EUR 2 million. I will finish, but I have to tell my colleague Kordiš that the Slovenian Democratic Party is bringing terrorism to the National Assembly. Look, he said himself that we should rehabilitate political violence. Look, this is a picture of Mr. Kordish. This is how he sees this rehabilitation – violence against his own citizens, violence against his own citizens, only because they have a different opinion from him. Don't you think that's like 70 years ago? Only then things ended much faster and in a sadder way. Just for closure. Dear Secretary of State, I really don't understand that we're looking for apartments in Koper right now. People are busy, people have nowhere to live, and we offer migrants the best location. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. A good greeting to the invited, and to you, Messengers and Messengers! Mr. Hear me, I think this proposal you sent to the National Assembly is a shot at nothing. We all know that referendums happen whenever the Ministry of the Interior wants to find a place for asylum seekers or asylum seekers. This is proof of the opinion of our society, how we are directed against these people. That's quite an indicator for me. That is why I think that among the people, among our people, between Slovenians and Slovenians, our citizens are already sufficiently afraid of asylum seekers and all immigrants and all the different thinkers and even different ones, as we think we are. But I don't think we're any different in anything and much more or less valuable. The purpose of this treatment is, in my opinion, also to promote hatred, at least as to what you are talking about spending money on asylum seekers or asylum seekers. You only give the information that suits you, you don't interpret it in advance, and you don't break it down because it doesn't suit you. You compare them with pensions, even so far that people would be even more opposed to those people who are seeking help and comfort in the difficult situations they are in. Why don't you compare the money for the prisoners, for example. It seems to me that there is about 100 euros a day for one prisoner. Then why don't you just suggest that the prisons just shut down, and we're going to make a lot of money without building any more prisons? I don't know. Maybe you'll tell me something in further discussions. Mr Grimes was talking about terrorists, about murderers, about everything that's going on in Europe. But the killers are also in Slovenia. We all know that ourselves, I'm sorry. I'm sorry this is happening. We just heard about a bad case in Crassus. I think that people of all colors and inclinations, both murderers and honest people, are among all people, regardless of nationality and belonging to any religion, I don't know what else. Therefore, I think that this should be the end of all that we are dealing with today, this proposal and all that is said in this proposal is merely to strengthen right-wing populism. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare for Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much again for your word. You're probably in the habit of calling people left-handed and right-wing, but I don't know what. I'll say it like that: I don't care what kind of thing opens the refrigerators with, but it's important to me that it's full. That is why I am also working in this direction and also supporting some proposal by a party that we would never have thought of. But sometimes I don't support anything that some party suggests that's closer to me. I could come after you right now, but you're welcome to vote, and I'd rather not do that, because all you care about is getting your president a ministerial chair with security guards, and for real pensioners, I don't think you care enough. And if you somehow said that my proposal for this referendum is a blank shot, and I think the vote for Desus is a vote for privileges and for all people of the middle-class shoot-out. Once again, I think this is a key issue of the future of our country, so people must decide. I am sorry that I participated in that political agreement or trade that limited the possibility of a referendum. Even when I was looking for solutions to trigger any such procedure in order to do so, it would be easy for me to collect 40,000 signatures for such a referendum, but I am sure that I would have collected the signature within 10 days, but I would not need any larger organisation, because people agree that there has been an abuse of power and that the people they have elected do not follow their principles, the goals they have promised before the elections: ethical, moral, transparent. I will also say, once again, that there is a need to separate refugees and migrants and not to strengthen any extreme position, because I think that the debate was still on some cultural level, in particular full of facts. All of this I somehow prepared from various reports, research institutes of other countries, what was going on, and I didn't even talk about some slogans that I was talking about at some convention or Kidric, or Shenchure or Maribor or, say, Lenart. Still, I kept trying to keep this debate on its level. But we have to be politicians, I always say, consistent. So we need to set up a mirror if we're doing what we're saying. I don't think classic Slovenian politics is like that because they say something, but they do something completely different. That's why I'm asking you a question. Did you accept any migrants or fugitives? Because if you have not, I believe that you have the opportunity to moralize and talk about this as a member of the National Assembly, and I personally disagree with this very much. You come in a little bit in, geographically speaking, undernourished statistical regions. I just made a recommendation last week on coherent regional development. People in the countryside are moving out, not into cities, but abroad, the countryside is dying to eat, and it seems to me that someone in this country or the government is even the goal of no one living northeast of Troy. Yeah, maybe you work there for migrants and blocks, then you won't have to invest much. But if there's any way I can keep going when we're talking about prison. I think it's a very, very unfortunate statement. I am also somehow aware of the intention of the Ministry of the Interior to start building new prisons in a short time, because we have received from the Court of Human Rights, I think, quite a few financial sanctions already. But I'll say it this way: you're in the coalition, you're in the government, you're in the country. You'd better make sure all the convicts don't play basketball and the bankers, and the people who stole five billion from the banks, are convicted. But here I think it's all in the drawer and it's a little stuck. First clean up before your threshold, then settle with others.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you. Look, talking about wealth From a million and a half migrants, illegals who came to Europe, there were only 30,000 employees in all this time. [[…]] And according to the data, virtually none of these people go to work anymore. That's what they say. They're all in social security. And many have also said publicly, look at YouTube, that they came here for social services. In this way left - handed people import the poor and make the poor, and their authority is based on it. For them, for the lefties, but it's a big business, for Soroche and everyone else. And that's why it's a problem. And when it comes to values, 40 million for another child in kindergarten is still an insurmountable problem for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the Government and Mr Chuš will be given the floor. So, if you'll excuse me, sir. [[…]] Mr. Marko Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you. I'm not going to be long, but I'd just like to get a little excited about today's debate by my colleagues from the SDS. Besides, I have a bad political memory, but I might want to come back to this famous Presidency of the European Union. I went to pull this program under your government's tactics for this, January-June 2008. You will not believe, point 5, so one of the five points, or point 5, in particular, was the intercultural dialogue for which you fought very much at the time, says the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, “the Slovenian Presidency will be a one-off event as a reason for longer-term action” and that “games for the strategic category of co-existence of diversity, overcoming stereotypes, prejudices, which is crucial for a range of areas such as migration, combating crime and combating terrorism”. This political opportunism and reverse political dialectic are the only reasons for this. It must have been politically wise to defend this point at the time, probably not today. I agree, however, that the situation has changed something. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u41	Procedurally, Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I would very much like you to present to Mr Ferruga, and to everyone else, the documents on intercultural dialogue that took place in the National Assembly, because I led that meeting at the time because I was chairman of the Committee on Culture, and it was unanimously confirmed – you will not believe anything. It is necessary to have a dialogue in such a way that it is spoken without misinterpretation and using the right terms. This was the first voice against the so-called political correctness, which is nothing more than the form of left-wing censorship that has been adopted elsewhere, and it was most beautiful that this was adopted in this national assembly with all representatives of all European Union countries. If you applied this principle, it would be different and you would talk about things the way you should, and you are always searching for expressions and concealing the facts. Look, I ask for documentation to be presented to you, from this intercultural dialogue, and you will see what this is really about. Then we could probably talk peacefully today about the fact that we should not import migrants and have them as an investment for 123 million, but that our children, our Slovenian children, are the largest and most valuable, long-term investment for Slovenia, and that such a policy, which is not based on these values, is, in fact, anti-national and also anti-development. This is a fact of what intercultural dialogue is: to speak honestly, without distraction and using the right terms. This was confirmed unanimously by all the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Šefic, Secretary of State, please make a closing statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you very much. For a moment, I'd like to take a few questions. First, it is necessary to correct, the Ministry of the Interior will not build or invest in prisons, because it is not the Ministry's responsibility, but the Ministry of Justice. It's just, by the way. But what has been mentioned is that we need to address these problems when we talk about the causes of migration at source. We absolutely agree! That is why we also support the two key processes that the European Union is currently leading, the so-called Rabat and Cartum Process. We are aware that the results of these activities will not be tomorrow. These are long-term measures and will have results in the coming years. That is why we say, even in the ministry, often that short-term, medium-term and, of course, long-term measures must be taken, in order to adequately manage all these situations. Of course, we support these things here and Slovenia will contribute, I apologize, in accordance with its capabilities. As for who takes us seriously, as the question was asked. I can agree that the Slovenian Presidency, the Presidency of the European Union, has been absolutely successful. However, it is also true that the Ministry of the Interior is increasingly becoming an important actor again not only in this area, but also in others, that we are increasingly involved in all key security arrangements, as far as migration is concerned and so on, which was not a situation before then, precisely because we are working actively because we are working constructively because we have certain results and, of course, because we are also recognized as a credible partner. And this is important and, of course, we can also influence certain or cooperate in the preparation of certain solutions, and that is good. Of course, no one in this country, but at least the government of the ministry, is fighting against its citizens. On the contrary, we are trying to have a dialogue with them, which is of course dynamic – and so is the case. I think it is right to say that we are talking about, of course, facing different views and also opposition. If we always talked like this, then of course we wouldn't have problems, even in other areas of course. Just in the end: Of course, no way does the country give the best locations, I don't know, for migrants, anything. We are giving what is supposed to be, nothing has yet been given, what has, of course, not been used for years and has actually been completely untapped, even some local communities have not wanted to take over these things, and of course we may also be using this for these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposer, Mr Andrej Chuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u46	For the last time in this agenda item. How do I sum up the whole point that lasted four hours? In particular, the current parliamentary majority does not allow for the implementation of the consultation referendum. However, I think that we should decide on this subject much more, in connotations, seriously, i.e. the legislative referendum, which can hardly be in fact when a law is passed in the National Assembly. In my opinion, during the debate, both by the representative of the Government, i.e. Mr Šefic, and by some groups of Members, there was nothing new. First of all, I'm disturbed by the anonymity of the coalition's sentinel groups. Apparently, they did a little bit of overtime yesterday, and today they're taking some time off. Yes, Mr. Ferruga, you're fine, yes, you're good, you're concerned, and I commend you, even though we don't agree. But I still think that it is Parliament's intention to talk, to debate, to seek the best solutions, and then to take this into account. However, it seems to me that at the beginning of Monday morning in this national assembly, we all know what will be adopted for the whole week ahead or two. So I think this level of democracy is more of a Belarusian level, but it's another time. In my opinion, the area of security is no longer an ideological issue, perhaps it was in the past, but today it seems to me that there is interest in the German Fourth Reich and the domination of Germany, on the other hand, the collapse and disintegration of the European Union and the destruction of our values, including the attack on the fundamental values and ideas that have led the European Union at all. Once again, security, prosperity, personal freedoms, free movement of goods, all of this is on the ground today. I will also point out once again the case of the Visegrassian States, they upfront rejected Juncker's mantra after the Multiculture Society and said they would not accept any migrants. And it happened to them. If we had people who cared about our own nation in power, we would likely follow their example. But once again, I stress that this is a fine case of abuse of power, when the will of the people is not taken into account, do not take care of security or prosperity. Unfortunately, we Slovenians have become second-rate citizens on our own land. When we talk about financial resources, because you can also propose a decision in the National Assembly or a law that has no negative budgetary implications, it will not be adopted. I think we discussed student vouchers last week, there would be no consequences, but we didn't. If we were to accept as migrants, we might accept it, but I don't hope to guess that because I'm scared. If we move forward, illegal migration is not in line with the principles of free movement of goods, services and people. It is also necessary to attack advocates of open borders that international trade, as understood or understood by liberals, is based on voluntary trade in goods. That means no one can force you to buy something if you don't want it. The free market provides for a voluntary exchange of goods between the seller and the buyer, between the producer and the seller and the consumer. However, as migration is concerned, on the one hand it is true and on the other hand it is not. Let's say I get a job in Germany. in this case, I'm going to Germany, where my new employer is expecting me. So it's a two-way voluntary interaction again. But if someone crosses the border without being invited, it is not a bilateral voluntary relationship. Imagine that, for example, a Belgian company would send packages to Slovenia without being ordered by consumers in Slovenia. This would no longer be an exchange of goods or trade. Trade must be based on a voluntary relationship. I think it's Hayek's coffee shop that's re-declaring a lot of advocates, all of which equals everything. Secondly, dear colleagues and colleagues, if we do not fight for Slovenia, if we do not fight for Europe and the European Union, the dreams of some international financial activists and officials who would probably not get a percentage at the elections will come true. These people are holding more and more in their hands. This is where I would point out, in particular, Soros, who is at war with Europe in favour of a new world order. Viktor Orban also said that what is happening today does not have a democratic basis and that European institutions are turning from organised institutions into anarchies. People in Europe are finally waking up and understanding that migration is not a cultural issue, but it is a question of our survival, which, according to Soros and other non-democratic individuals at the top of the food chain, must end at the end of Europe as we know it. So, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Pučnik once said, it's Slovenia, I think it's this time again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since we have not yet spent time and if anyone else wants to discuss it, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to apply, this also applies to the applicant and the representative of the Government. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u48	Your Honor! All the truth about the migrations we have witnessed in the last period is in the following: migration flows are no longer waged by war, they are not refugees, they are driven by money and political interests. From Turkey to left-wing in the European Union, which act as a fifth column because they import the poor, they import the third world. And if you import a third world, you get a third world. And by doing so, they make the whole European Union poor and create even more poor people, who are then naively their electoral base, because they do not see how the world has changed. Today, the speculative capital, against which the left always has its mouth full, is fully and fully supported and financed by the left. Soros and everyone else are supporting left-wingers today, supporting Clinton in the American elections. Therefore, this flow of migrants will not stop the end of the conflicts, it will not stop the establishment of safe areas, but much more will have to be done. The import of migrants is therefore a big business for left-wing people. In Italy, the hunters of those who serve by transport go to the government and into the work of NGOs. In Slovenia too, NGOs as leeches suck money from the budget under the pretext that it is humanitarian aid and similar things. In fact, when it comes to the issue of migrants, there is an option and a gap that Europe is facing. And this one is fatal. Whether this will continue to be a place of Western civilization, based on human rights and a consistent respect for personal integrity, women, children, everyone and everyone, or whether this will gradually radically Islamize the area of Sharia law. Europe is falling apart because of these forces, because of this imports. It can happen if Le Penov wins, that we will have a completely different position within a few weeks. If not, such a situation will continue in a few years at the latest. The security challenges facing Slovenia are enormous. And what is the doctrine of the story, people as a fundamental sovereign would have the only right to decide on these things, so at the referendum. Given that you have not voted and will obviously never vote, it should be stressed that the only reasonable policy for Slovenia to maintain its security, to strengthen its security, to strengthen all the pillars of security, including the military, is to find friends where friends are reliable and where friendly relations work well – and this is within the Visegra Group – and to strengthen its cooperation with them as far as possible. At the same time, Slovenia must ensure that there is no more room for radical Islam within its territory. When she does all this, Slovenia remains another fundamental task, which must become the task of any Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is to once again change the perception of time and space. There is no 123 million for migrants some development investment. On the contrary. This is the destruction of the country. You have to invest in your own children. Children in Slovenia must become an investment, the policy of maintaining the Slovenian people, Slovenian citizens and citizens must be strengthened, and every newborn Slovenian child must be considered the most valuable investment for the preservation of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia. And it must never happen again and never again that the problem of kindergarten money is for another child, it should be somewhere between 40 and 50 million, it is an insurmountable problem, even though, as you claim, the economic situation is improving, but 123 million for migrants, and that is immediately, and that is not a problem. This, ladies and gentlemen is the problem that Slovenia is facing and where it will have to do everything. The safety and security of our children comes first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that the referendum will not be, because there is no obedience on the part of the ruling coalition and also in the opposition, with the exception of the Slovenian Democratic Party supporting the referendum, I have only one question. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of not hoping to ask citizens and citizens at the referendum about whether or not they want migrants in Slovenia? I think that, Mr Šefic, you are walking in Slovenia, imposing a government policy for the reception of Muslim migrants. You're being rejected everywhere. Why are you doing this? Let's go to a referendum, ask people, do you want migrants or don't want them? Do you know what you're afraid of? You're afraid of the results because I'm sure 80, 85% of people would be against it. But then you wouldn't have any more trouble. I wouldn't be one of the most hated state secretaries because they would no longer impose migrants on Slovenia. Look, if you want them, take them home. How many did you take home? Not to impose on people something they don't want to impose. Let's go to the referendum, ask people and then make this decision binding. The referendum does not cost 123 million euros as much as you give to migrants. Nor does the referendum cost 200 million euros as you gave in SDH. The referendum costs about €3 million. Let's do this and save it. We had a proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and today there have also been talks about the comparisons between pensions and how many migrants are involved. When we made a proposal on farm pensions, there's no money for that. There is no money for pensioners who have worked 35 years and have given 35 years to live for this country. For someone who comes here to burn, destroy, commit violence, impose their faith, not to adapt to our culture, to our values, and for him there is no problem of 2,000 euros a month. How much do you value your country? How much do you value your people, and how much do you value your homeland? Nothing. You only value Soros' millions, which are very effective and fruitful in the Balkans, in Central Europe and in other countries. I think he's proud to be watching today's debate. We have also seen which European Members from Slovenia are financed by Soros. According to the media, the tables, as I have seen, are also on the list of Tanja Fajon from the Social Democrats. I am therefore not surprised that such a policy is the Slovenian government. But I said yesterday, look what's going on in Macedonia, and this is a typical example of what happens when you lose power in your own country. Slovenians and Slovenians, we must not let this happen to us, because that is the goal. There have been too many wars, too many conflicts, too many decades, for centuries, the Slovenian people have fought for their own country in 1991. And after 25 years, it's not time for you to gamble on it for business, as my friend Grims said. Because you have only the euro in front of your eyes. Because you don't have any values because the only value you have is the number you have in your transaction account.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to call for a consultative referendum on limiting immigration and rejecting the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, on the basis of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Andrej Cuz. With regard to this proposal, the Group of Ten Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Andrej Chuš, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the applicant, Mr Andre Couch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u52	Once again, hello to all present. Allow me to begin by thanking the Members of the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, through the transmission of the signatures, enabled me to have a general debate on this proposal today. Thank you very much again. But it is more than obvious that at least part of the opposition has recognized that the participation of young people and youth issues is still important to those that are also of key importance for the future of Slovenia. You know that we have already discussed at the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth at the end of 2014, an urgent analysis of the implementation of the National Youth Programme for the next eight years. After a gruesome and very fast discussion, the majority, both the opposition and the coalition unanimously, also in cooperation with SMC, SD, Desus, the opposition, which is very colourful and varied, decided that the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth recommended or proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to include a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council. However, if the Government cannot do so, let it also make clear the reasons why this has not occurred and find some alternative way of proposing a youth representative to the Economic and Social Council. Although the Economic and Social Council is a tripartite body of the social partners and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It was set up to address issues and measures related to economic and social policy and other issues relating to specific areas of partnership negotiation. Here, too, I would like to add that some of the rules and arrangements are quite old, is from 1994 and it is more obvious that they no longer follow the challenges of modern times, so also the question whether we in Slovenia have an economic and social world that is representative or addresses all generations, because even when we look at the structure and policies that are being implemented, which are being addressed by the Economic and Social Council, they are particularly beneficial to a generation of individuals over 40 years of age. On the other hand, the lack of listening to the initiatives and proposals of young people is also strongly reflected in the development policies of the Republic of Slovenia, as I am convinced that the current and also the last few governments are leading to an intergenerational conflict, which we cannot afford. In December of last year and January of this year, I myself, with the Youth for Youth Action through social networks, especially Facebook, addressed peers and, of course, older and youth organisations, to tell me what is bothering them in Slovenia, what they would like to improve. In this context, I have also tabled five legislative proposals. Some of them have already been discussed, and some will be present at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Given the very complex and systemic problem of young people, from employment, self-reliance, housing problems, long-term sustainability of pensions and public finances, the problem of the education system, I have somehow made the most meaningful measure and the most important measure of action a recommendation to the Government that, in the context of social dialogue and the preparation of legislation and reforms, a youth representative be appointed to the Economic and Social Council. At the declaration level and before the elections, all Members, Ministers, Presidents, like to praise how they are for young people, what we will do for them, how important intergenerational solidarity is, how we will work together in the future. And I say blah blah blah blah blah blah. But look, there's something about social dialogue and talking to people about listening and hearing, and there's something about rejecting dialogue. In December 2015, the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Student Organisation of Slovenia called on the Government and the social partners to change the definition of social dialogue in Slovenia. This should also be followed by a change in the composition of the Economic and Social Council in order to include representatives of young people and also of older people. Young people are not only interested in chairs for the common table, but in particular that they are heard and considered as an equal partner, so no privileges, no financial resources, we want to ensure equality for young people. Young people have already been quite critical in the past towards social dialogue. Above all, from the point of view of the enlargement of the actors involved, they are convinced that social dialogue is the basis for cooperation between all social partners and is, as such, a very important political instrument for the preparation and coordination of labour market policies, social affairs. For many years, young people have been reminding us that social dialogue, as we know it in Slovenia, is insufficient to respond to the needs and challenges of young people, as young people are not directly involved and there is no one there who will continue to advocate for the interests and rights of young people. This is particularly important when youth unemployment is still high and young people find it difficult to enter the labour market where they are in an unequal position. This also calls attention to ignoring youth initiatives and involving young people in social dialogue. On 6 May 2016, the 288th meeting of the Economic and Social Council was held, where a presentation of the White Paper on pensions was held to the social partners, which was already made clear at the time of the public presentation that it was also important to address the long-term sustainability of pensions and youth. The request from the youth sector for participation in the Economic and Social Council was rejected because of opposition from some of the social partners. While such a decision was taken by the social partners in the Slovenian Youth Council, they regret the lack of awareness that the debate on pensions is particularly important for young people. For today, an average young person does not believe in receiving or ever seeing a pension. I am aware that the Economic and Social Council is a tripartite body, but stakeholders, in this case in particular young people, should have the opportunity to present their views on such important proposals. If youth representatives are not included in the Economic and Social Council, it is difficult for me personally to say that this body is representative or necessary at all. As a result of such moves and shortcomings, there are increasing public criticisms and initiatives to abolish the said body. At the same time, I would like to remind members of the coalition once that quite a few of you at the time were sitting on this working body, on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, and it would be hard to imagine that you are denying or rejecting something that you positively defined two years and several months ago. Unless someone's sick or they have a disorder. In this context, I would like to read some statements from young people about their current state of affairs from various research, Youth 2010, 2013, something that I myself receive personally through social networks or mail. And I'm going to start: "Well, we've got capitalist and democratic Slovenia. Now you can say whatever you want, nobody cares. For work, for housing and retirement, take care of yourself.” Nietzsche, then 26 years old, employed by force. “Mom always told me, learn not to be a cleaner. Now I see that it would be better if you were a cleaner.” May, 30, unemployed graduate. “People who finish college are unemployed because the college system pumps them with knowledge, which in the real economy means 10% of usable knowledge.” Davor, 22, young politician. “Sometimes I think you’re looking at young people with injustice. Many people, for example, think that young people are just lying at home, smoking and drinking. Many young people think with their heads and find themselves, are independent and think about their future." Helena, 18 years old. “No, politics is getting on my nerves. If elections changed anything, they would be prohibited.” Andrea, 25 years old, unemployed young mom. “We represent ourselves well at home. I don't know why I want to move out or what I don't have a chance to do. A house, a house, wouldn't even be able to afford an apartment if I had a regular job. It would probably be even worse, surely it would have less money and more costs.” Dani, 24, employed in black. This is just one of the statements and views of young people participating in the Youth 2010 survey, which, as such, is also the latest national and very competent and quality research in the youth sector prepared by the Youth Office. Nevertheless, some key findings. The number of young people in Slovenia is dropping very quickly. The inclusion of young people in the education system of Slovenia has increased significantly in recent decades compared to the average of the European Member States. Slovenia holds first place among the members of the European Union after the proportion of young people who are temporarily employed. Of course, we all know the consequences. And, for example, another such conclusion: Slovenian youth are among those who move away from their parents at the latest within the framework of the European Union. Despite a few key findings and a presentation of young people's views, I will now announce that if there is not enough of the coalition to finally move something in this area – in the final stage, the recommendation is such that the Government takes it into account or not – I can also point out that if it is rejected, this time we will also form a concrete alliance for young people, which will include not only political parties in the National Assembly, but also civil society and other interested young people. This recommendation will be made until you not only listen to it but, above all, hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. On 9 March 2017, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to Dr. Jasni Murgel, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a recommendation to the Government at its 37th meeting, held on 9. 3. 2017. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which drew attention to the disagreement between the text of the recommendation and the explanation. If the objective of the proposal is to recommend a change in the composition of the Economic and Social Council, it has highlighted the three-partite composition of this Council, which would require a unanimous amendment of the rules to that end. For this reason, such a proposal should not, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, be addressed solely to the Government as one of the partners of the Economic and Social Council. However, most social partners, workers' and employers' representatives, are not organisations and individuals who perform public services or exercise public powers to whom, in accordance with Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly may at all propose measures for work. The proposal stressed what it already stressed in the supplement that it is aware that the Economic and Social Council is a tripartite body, but considers that stakeholders, in this case in particular young people, should have the opportunity to present their views on such important proposals. If youth representatives are not included in the Economic and Social Council, it is difficult for the applicant to say that this body is representative or necessary at all. That is why he also proposed this recommendation. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities presented the opinion of the Government and stressed that the Economic and Social Council is a tripartite body of the social partners and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It was set up to address issues and measures related to economic and social policy and other issues relating to specific areas of partnership negotiation reflect the equal representation of three partners, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, employers and employees. He also stressed that the Economic and Social Council, as the culmination of social dialogue in the Republic of Slovenia, also retained the three-partite composition of government representatives, employers and workers after the adoption of the new rules on the functioning of the Authority and reflected the equal representation of the three partners. However, he felt that, in the future, due to the increasing importance of civil society and the legitimacy of the wider social consensus it brings, we could expect an ever-increasing involvement in the social partnership. The Secretary of State also stressed that the rules on the Economic and Social Council in Article 18 provide that the College of this Council may decide to invite representatives of different interest groups and individual experts to each meeting, allowing for the presence of young, older and other stakeholders at meetings where important intergenerational issues are addressed. He also stressed that the law on the representativeness of trade unions and employers' organisations was in preparation, thus strengthening and ensuring sufficient legitimacy of the social partners. The discussion further suggested that the government seek a solution to enable young people to participate in the Economic and Social Council. The question was raised as to how young people would be included in social dialogue. The Secretary of State, the representative of the Government, said that the Economic and Social Council is also only a consultative body, but that we have a Council of the Government for Youth, and that the new rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council already set out the possibility for young people to be invited to the meeting and have the opportunity to participate. The Committee then voted on the point of the proposal and did not adopt it. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it was found that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation on the home working body had been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Peter Pogacar, to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u56	Dear Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal. The Economic and Social Council is a tripartite body of the social partners and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and represents a key institution of social dialogue in the Republic of Slovenia. The Economic and Social Council is set up to address issues relating to economic and social policy. Social dialogue is also a bilateral or tripartite communication and organised cooperation between representatives of work, capital and countries that, as carriers of primary different interests, give up part of their demands because they want to achieve the broadest possible social consensus. The fundamental actors in the social partnership, the social dialogue, if you want, are therefore representatives of the various stakeholders representing and protecting the interests of their members: the work, these are workers, representatives of trade unions, capital, employers, employers' association of employers and states, says the government, among which there is always a need to achieve a balance of power. The term tripartism has often been developed from such a derived composition. The tripartite social dialogue in Slovenia has now had a long tradition. It began to develop after 1990. In 1994, the Economic and Social Council was also established. What is important is that the Economic and Social Council, as it is composed, is part of the decision-making tradition in the Republic of Slovenia, reflects the equal representation of all three partners and monitors and addresses the situation in the economic and social fields, participates in the preparation of documents and forms opinions, opinions and proposals. Throughout the world, all members of the Economic and Social Council strive to establish an equal balance of power. The functioning of the Economic and Social Council is governed by the rules on the functioning of the ESF, which were last amended and adopted at the end of December 2016. The ESF, the Economic and Social Council, as the top of the social dialogue, also remains a space for regulating industrial relations, preserving the tripartite composition of government representatives, employers and workers, and reflecting the equal representation of all three partners. Of course, we can be aware that in the future, due to the increasing importance of civil society due to changes in the labour market and also to the search for the broadest possible social consensus, we expect an attempt to involve civil society in the existing social partnership system. That is why, within the framework of the new rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council, the Government has requested and allowed the possibility that, on the basis of the conclusions of the colleges of all three partners, representatives of young, older and other stakeholders may be present at their request in addressing important issues. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of intergenerational cooperation and is in contact with representatives of youth organisations all the time. Let's not forget, we have a Council of Governments for Youth. We have a Council of Government for Student Affairs, where there is room for dialogue on these issues. For this very reason and these expectations of young people who want to be included, we have made it possible, within the framework of the new rules, for them to be specifically invited to the Economic and Social Council. Finally, we reiterate that the Economic and Social Council, as the summit of social dialogue, is intended to regulate industrial relations in this country. So, the relationship between work, capital and, if you want, the government on one side. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not recommended that young people be involved in the operation of the ESF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretary and everyone else! On the working body of the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee, it was recommended to the Government to include young people in the Economic and Social Council, rejected. In the world, in Europe and also in our country, social dialogue acts as a bilateral or triangularly organised cooperation between labour, capital and state representatives. These, as carriers of primary different interests, give up part of their demands because they want to reach a common social agreement in favour of the entire social community. Social dialogue allows for different interests to be taken into account and broad development consensus to be developed. With us, social dialogue reflects the equivalence, the representation of key 8 members by the government, 8 members by employee representatives and 8 members by employers' representatives. This official tripartite composition of the social partnership is complemented by a fourth component in the Republic of Slovenia, as different NGOs and interest associations are also emerging as a social partnership entity, which have the opportunity to participate in public debates and other forms of cooperation. Of course, there are young people among them. Let me expose the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, we have the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Student Organisation of Slovenia. It is true that not all of these do not have a seat in the Economic and Social Council, but they have been set up, among other things, to participate in policy-making, in particular those that concern young people. Let me say that in the Desus Group we have always accepted representatives of young people and of all other civil initiatives. If they turned to us, we listened to them and tried to take their ideas, proposals, comments into account when adopting legislation. As you know, with this year's new rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council for young people and all other stakeholders who do not have a formal status in this world, the path is further open to contributing to the formulation of issues and measures relating to economic and social policy as they can be invited to the meeting of the Economic and Social Council. Let me add the following to the end. Members and Members of Desus shall ensure intergenerational respect and cooperation. Young people with their knowledge and life energy and the older population with their wisdom can be excellently complemented, so in these recommendations the proposal was not so consistent that in its recommendation to involve young people in the Economic and Social Council, even though it recommended that the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Student Organisation of Slovenia invited the Government and the social partners to join the Economic and Social Council of both generations. The Desus Group does not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u60	Mr Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President-appreciative. The proposal for a recommendation, which, although we are only considering today and do not really decide about it, raises significantly more important questions about the organisation, involvement and functioning of our society than may at first appear in a text that speaks only of the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council. Perhaps even the applicant himself did not think about it, but the question of redefining industrial relations in society, which has long not been based solely on the classic relationship between a factory worker, between an office capitalist and a castle authority, is very important. Today, for example, young people can sit on all three sides represented in the Economic and Social Council. They can be young entrepreneurs and thus employers, young people can be employed and thus those represented or even represented by the unions themselves and can be elected representatives of the authorities. In an ideal situation, therefore, there would be a proposal where young people have only one place in the Economic and Social Council, even a step back. Since it has been a long time in our society, at least it should be, the end of the classic patriarchal relations, where a young adult cannot decide on his life and community affairs without consulting another living elder. And such proposals do not understand this intergenerational component, nor do they understand the basic purpose of establishing and operating the Economic and Social Council. It is therefore in the interest of young people to be represented on all three sides, not only on the one hand, but also on the one hand, to hear the interest of young entrepreneurs, as well as of young employees, but also of those who do not have jobs, who receive fine forms of work or who are still struggling to enter the labour market. A key move will be made when the main objectives of the National Youth Programme, which foresees a higher level of involvement of young people where it is also most important, are achieved in decision-making bodies such as the National Assembly, as well as in bodies such as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other institutions that shape the fate of this country. An important step towards the inclusion of not necessarily young people, but certainly younger generations, this National Assembly has already made a new appointment of constitutional judges, and a component of understanding the need to strengthen intergenerational solidarity and cooperation is also reflected in this regard. However, we cannot, with unilateral action, attempt to disrupt key solidarity and cooperation between groups, as has already been mentioned, which are in fact very similar if not already the same objectives. For example, the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Association of Retired Associations rightly both strive for a sustainable pension system that will allow everyone a decent pension in the long term. That is how, I suppose, all three rightly and equally strive for a decent payment for a decent job. And it is right that the voice of all these should be heard on all three sides and that the interests of young people should be recognised in their greatest breadth, but not limited only to the interest of promoting and implementing youth policies. The rejection of today's proposal does not really mean that young people are not supported in the Economic and Social Council, but it means understanding the possibility of sitting on all three sides, on the employers' side, on the workers' side and, I sincerely hope, on the government's side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Young people have a lot of problems in current Slovenian society. Not being included in the Economic and Social Council is not one of them. The key “breath” of young people is that they are not included in society in a fair and dignified manner. They are not included in the distribution of social wealth, they do not have access to safe, stable jobs, even though they do exist, young people are vulnerable to robbery, making it impossible for them to plan their own future. At the same time, what they feel as a tribulation is being sold back by the authorities as an opportunity and as an opportunity to gain experience. Young people are forced through this by the individualistic ideology of entrepreneurship and flexibility, which translates into poverty, uncertainty, dependence and perspectivelessness in life. For example, the lack of access to homes that keep young people dependent on their parents and prevent them from being independent is part of this story. The problem of young people is project employment, work through espies, part-time volunteer work and all other possible forms of leisure work that young people exhaust, do not include in working groups, atomize them, take energy that could all be directed towards improving society and our collective collective progress. The problem for young people is not that they do not have their own representative in the ESS. One member of a government negotiating group under 40 years of age cannot legally represent all young people in Slovenia. Let's stop pretending that young people are indivisible stakeholders. They're not! We have both younger and older representatives of such and different social groups and interest associations. We have young right-wing, young left-wing, young propagandists of church morality, young capitalists, young workers, young green workers, neoliberals, young entrepreneurs, including young socialists and so on. As far as interest groups and conflict situations are concerned, so are their representatives among young people. If we look only after this national assembly, here on the right we have a colleague of Tonin, and then Cuzha and Mahnič, sitting here in the middle of the SMC, is a colleague of Kamal, and then Desus, who says that when you are young and how young you are, otherwise relative, is a colleague of Škoberna from SD, well, in the United Left we have six members, three of whom fall into the youth category, but in our client is that the average age there is about 30 years. One way or another, we often receive the mark that we are a client of young people. In short, when we empower young people economically and socially, we will only achieve their serious involvement in political participation. Once we provide them with suitable, decent and safe jobs when we create an environment where young people will not have to rush from one holiday job to another, when we create conditions that young people will not have to live hand in hand when they can afford their own lives, then this will also be reflected in improved political and civil participation. The apparent inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council therefore makes no sense. The only effect of such a measure would be to create the appearance of young people involved in political decision-making. But in fact, what is the involvement of young people in presenting a government youth representative by unknown means? None. Moreover, the government would receive only one vote in the ESF, where the government and capital representatives, on the one hand, and on the other, would receive only one vote. The tendency of the ESF to capital has a number of negative effects, the tightening of the belt at the weakest, the decomposition of public services, the increasing fragmentation in the labour market on the one hand and capital leave on the other hand, and the consistent violation of the rights of workers on the other. Young people need to engage in politics on the basis of their political beliefs, not on the basis that they are simply young. The task of the State is to enable all the inhabitants to live a life worth living, from free public education, to work that is paid enough to be allowed to live from it, to a safe age and decent pensions. These objectives cannot be achieved through virtual solutions, as proposed in this agenda item, but through fundamental solidarity-based social renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u64	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, President, welcome! This proposal for a recommendation to the Government, which we are going to hold today's general debate, is simple and clear. The government should appoint a youth representative to the Economic and Social Council. The proposal was extensively substantiated by the proposer. He highlighted in particular the decision of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, which called on the Government to set up a Youth Council by the end of 2014. In December 2015, the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Student Organisation of Slovenia called on the Government and the social partners to change the definition of social dialogue in Slovenia. Representatives of young people and representatives of older people should also be included in the Economic and Social Council. Young people want to be heard and also to be a key and equal partner in social dialogue. The proposaler and I agree that social dialogue in Slovenia is insufficient to respond to the needs and challenges of young people. This is mainly due to the fact that youth representatives are not directly involved in the Economic and Social Council. We are living at a time when young people face high levels of unemployment and have difficulty entering the labour market, where they are also in an unequal position. It is incomprehensible that the Economic and Social Council itself rejects the initiatives of young people or their representatives and does not allow them to present their views on the issues directly concerned, such as the consideration of the government proposal for a White Paper on the pension system. The proposal has the support of young people and Members of the New Slovenia – we support Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! Your Honor! We have before us a proposal from colleague Andrej Couch, whose aim is to include young people in the Economic and Social Council. As we are aware of the importance of our young people in the Group of Non-Aligned Members and also in the Alliance, we support the proposal for a recommendation. At the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we were able to hear many reasons why the recommendation could not be supported. Unfortunately, the reasons why not, instead of why. And then we're surprised that young people without perspective are going abroad in better times. Therefore, we cannot and must not condemn them, for we are thus giving them the impression that undesirable factors are in society. Employment is a necessary step towards the social and economic independence of young people. However, as young people have an increasingly difficult transition and integration into the working population after school, the chances of self-reliance are deteriorating, and this has a significant impact and impact on the quality of life of individuals. Atypical and uncertain forms of employment that do not provide young people with material capacity to live on their own, let alone to create their own family, are becoming increasingly widespread and become virtually self-sustaining. Young people who decide to buy apartments are already faced with the first problems when hiring loans and the demands of lenders. The consequences of the situation, however, are reflected in the growing dependence of young people on parents. Do we even know that the Republic of Slovenia is one of the countries where young people stay with their parents the longest? Of course, we can't just give everyone a job, a real estate, a kindergarten. What, though, is not our task to create good conditions for creating a stable future, for obtaining a permanent job, for setting up a home and family? In November 2014, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth adopted a decision proposing that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia extend the Economic and Social Council to young people. However, if the social partners did not agree, the Government itself had to find an opportunity to involve young people in the Economic and Social Council. To date, the government has not taken a step towards achieving this decision. On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we were able to hear explanations from the Secretary of State that, at the end of 2016, the Government amended the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council in such a way that Council meetings could also be attended. However, in almost the same breath, he said that the change was not intended for young people. We wonder how the representative of the Government can boast that the Committee's 2014 decision has been implemented, if this change was not intended for young people in the first place. Although such inclusion would bring about a change in the basis for the functioning of the Economic and Social Council, we believe that an agreement between the three partners and a unanimous amendment to the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council is certainly possible. We have a world of government of the Republic of Slovenia for youth. So why not provide a seat in the Economic and Social Council for a representative of the Youth Council representing the interests of young people? Do you know what youth participation means? It means active participation and the influence of young people on decisions affecting their lives. We are convinced that institutions should ensure that young people are properly informed and enable them to express their views. Unfortunately, the participation of young people in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the lowest among EU countries. And we should be really worried about that. For this reason, in the Alliance we will prepare an amendment to the laws governing health and pension insurance in the work where they determine membership in the Assembly or the World Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension Insurance of Slovenia. In this way, we will give young people a word in decisions concerning their future. After all, young people also contribute to the filling of both bills, both health and pension. Today, when we discuss the proposal for a recommendation from Mr Andrej Couch, it is not just about involving young people in the Economic and Social Council. It is about finally giving young people a hand to cooperate with each other. Therefore, on this occasion, I also express my support for young people and their efforts to improve the social and economic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u67	Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President. The proposer recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appoint a youth representative as a member of the Economic and Social Council as part of the social dialogue and preparation of legislation and reforms. In the introductory part of the explanation of the recommendation, it describes the rules of operation of the Economic and Social Council, continues with the reference to past initiatives submitted by youth representatives and students' representatives with regard to the change in the definition of social dialogue in Slovenia, and concludes that the Economic and Social Council is a three-partite body in which interested stakeholders, in particular young people, should nevertheless have the opportunity to present their views. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that dialogue with civil society is important in coordinating attitudes and decision-making, whether it is a group of young people or a group of elderly or disabled people. In this case, however, it is necessary to consider a different solution or cooperation and not necessarily the involvement of civil society through full or associated membership in the Economic and Social Council. In this regard, the Government also explains in its opinion that the fundamental actors of the social partnership are representatives of the various interest groups representing and protecting the interests of their members, namely: works, workers or trade unions, capital, i.e. employers through the Employers' Association, and the State, i.e. the Government. The Economic and Social Council, as the summit of social dialogue in the Republic of Slovenia, also remains after the January adoption of new rules on the functioning of industrial relations premises and retains the tripartite composition of representatives of the Government, employers and workers, and reflects the equal representation of the three partners. However, it is essential for today's debate that the last amendment, which provides in its Article 18, provides that the College of the Economic and Social Council may decide to invite representatives of different stakeholders and individual experts to the meeting, allowing for the participation of young, older and other stakeholders in meetings where important intergenerational issues are addressed. The government has therefore, by recently amending the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council in existing frameworks, sought a solution for cooperation, including young people, at Economic and Social Council meetings in matters most affected. In the entire debate on the enlargement of the membership of the Economic and Social Council with members from other civil society organisations, we cannot go beyond the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out that it is possible to understand from the explanation of the proposal that a revised composition of the Economic and Social Council should be considered so as to make youth representatives an equal partner in the social dialogue. The legislative and legal service also points out that the aim of the proposer is such, and if so, then there is a discrepancy between the proposal and its explanation. If the objective of the proposal is to recommend a change in the composition of the Economic and Social Council, then it is not negligible that we are talking about a tripartite composition of the Council that would require a unanimous amendment to the rules to that end. For this reason, such a proposal, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, should not be addressed solely to the Government as one of the social partners. In this regard, we stress, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, that most social partners, i.e. workers' and employers' representatives, are not organisations and individuals who perform public services or exercise public powers to which, in accordance with Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may propose measures for work. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we rejected the recommendation at the meeting of the parent committee due to the above-mentioned recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u69	Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council, because, last but not least in our programme for parliamentary elections, we have made a promise that if we engage young people in the Economic and Social Council in government, where they will be an equal partner to others and they will be able to co-form not only youth but national policy in all areas. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition does not see young people as potential, but sees them more as a burden, but as a means to repay the loans of this country in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot agree with such a policy, and we believe that young people need to be heard. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, young people are heard and we will continue to strive to do so. The Student Organisation informed them that they had received an invitation to a meeting only after a meeting of the competent parliamentary committee, where they had pointed out the catastrophic state of dialogue between them, an organisation which in some way represents young people and the decision makers or executive branch of authorities in the Republic of Slovenia. Young people in this country are not heard as they should be. This is also proved not least by the average age of this national assembly, the age, although it is better than it was in the previous term. There are quite a few young Members representing the views of young people, but young people want there to be more representatives, that we do not have only a party to Desus, which is more than a party to the interest group, an interest organisation representing older people, but we know how it represents them in recent years when pensions do not grow as they could when older people do not enjoy such rights as migrants who are coming. And I could discuss it. I am sure that if my colleague Chuš proposed that a representative of migrants be given to the Economic and Social Council in order for the coalition to adopt such a proposal. Just like the student cards we talked about last night. But you didn't support the proposal there either. And when you go to see the coalition contract, when you go to see the points that concern young people in the field of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, you see that there is no realisation. Just remember how long we spent in the National Assembly talking about how we needed a dual school system, how necessary the reintroduction of apprenticeship is. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we tabled a proposal three times, which was also supported by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and those most concerned by this law, but there was no hearing. Then the government came after two and a half years of mandate only with some proposal, which is a more pilot project for the dual school system, which will not be as alive as it should be before 2020. When we go to the field of traineeships, we also see here that the Government has not shown what could be done in these two-and-a-half years. The question is whether or not he doesn't know. Here, too, we have tabled our proposal twice in the Slovenian Democratic Party to improve the situation in this area, but we have been rejected, and then in the second reading, because the Ministry of Labour has not done what it should have done, because obviously that month was not enough time to prepare some articles or any amendments to articles already tabled in that law. As far as housing policy is concerned for young people, we can say that there are two and a half years behind us. It is true that a resolution on the national housing programme has been adopted at that time, but unfortunately there is no effect. Resolutions can be adopted, but the question is what is the realisation. Here I recall that we have addressed this problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party and have proposed one possible solution, namely that the dwellings which are state owned and which are empty, this means that the country has only the costs with them, can be transferred to the housing fund to be transferred there and then rented to young and young families under 35 years of age to be leased for non-profit rents and, after five years, have the opportunity to buy this apartment for non-profit purchases, with all the rents they have paid in those five years being paid at a redemption price. Unfortunately, we were also rejected here. After 400 there are empty apartments, the government doesn't want them, but not for free, but for rent to young people, and again, when it comes to another group, we can call them privileged, they're not migrants, they're not a problem, but they're given state apartments not for non-profit rents, not for ordinary rents, but for free! Free! And there's a call for them to be equipped with luxury equipment with no idea what kind of TVs, no mattresses, what kind of beds or what else I know. At that time, we listened to Minister Irena Majcen, who said that many of these state apartments were not in the right condition to be leased to young people. But when it comes to migrants, the country first equips them with luxury and then gives them free. You have these double criteria and they have these priorities in SMC, SD and Desus. I hope that young people are listening to this, that young people know the priority of the government of Mir Cerar in this country and who is not a priority. When it comes to such a small move as to extend the possibility of using student vouchers instead of eight to eight from eight to ten evenings or until midnight, such as one of the proposals, you are voting against and rejecting the SDS proposal and then then a fellow Member, Andrej Couch. This would not be a measure that would cost 200 million euros, as is the case with SDH, nor would it be a measure that would cost 123 million euros, as is the case with illegal migrants. This is a measure that would only extend the use of student vouchers for two hours and a measure that would not add to the financial burden of the state budget, because in any case, we must plan in the budget to make use of or use the maximum number of vouchers. And when we come to this proposal that I do not speak yet in the context of what was happening with regard to the VIS, as regards the novelty and the law that is being prepared, that we are not also talking about sports and sports infrastructure, which is also very much concerned with young people, where we see again that there will be obviously another lost mandate in this area when we come to this proposal, we are listening again to one and the same excuses that it is not necessary to in some way break the balance that is now in this Economic and Social Council, that it is a tripartite treaty, a tripartite body between employers, workers and executive authorities, and that I am not being judged as a representative body or as someone who could say something as a decision maker and as a member of this body, they can come to a meeting and say something. Now I don't know whether to let them speak or not, whether you invite them or not. The last time we heard at the meeting, they didn't get an invitation when they were told they could come, but they couldn't say what they wanted. It's been a long time since you said anything about young people without young people. We should be following the policy Nothing about the future without young people. It is true that all issues concerning the future of the Slovenian country in all areas, not only in the field of youth issues, should be asked by young people and included in active dialogue and encouraged their participation. However, because young people in this country feel that they are not wanted as someone who would say something about the current situation and how they see the future, young people do not choose political, not any other type of participation. For this reason we also have the electoral participation we have, and for this reason we have an exodus of young people only in last year 8 000 from Slovenia. Eight thousand young people move out in one year, and about 20,000 are born in one year. You can figure out what that means in the long run. Unless it goes the way it was said yesterday by coalition parties that this birthrate and demographics will be saved by migrants. If that's the case, then you're on the right track. But I think that, given how much the country invests in a young person through the education process, we should step together and do everything to adopt such laws and policies, to keep young people here in Slovenia, to get a job here, and to pay taxes here. Not that after they finish schooling, they leave with a belly for bread, get a job abroad, and pay taxes there. Because these 8,000 that go away, they don't go to exchanges, they don't go to Erasmus plus and all, but these are the people that go to work and probably won't be back. With this, Slovenia loses its potential, a lot of potential, but we see how Slovenians and Slovenians, young people and even less young people, are successful abroad. And here is lost this power of knowledge know how you could use it. With these young people, instead of leaving us, we could also solve the pressing problems that we have now and that are still waiting for us in the future. But when we look at a balance sheet, when we look at the implementation of measures in the youth field that have been implemented or, rather, failed by the government of Mir Cerar, we see that this youth exodus will not be over. That young people continue to go abroad, that we will continue to lose potential, that our society will grow old, that those who work actively and thereby pay contributions to all the cash registers will not, therefore, be obliged to lower pensions. We are turning around in a vicious circle, which I believe is the possibility that we can get out of it if we just take certain measures. It is certainly one of the measures to involve young people in the decision-making body, which is an important body, and later in the National Assembly, what and how Slovenia will be in the future. I am sorry that you do not see young people as an opportunity to fix this country for the better, so that the situation can improve. But you see them above all as some kind of help in the elections, giving them some candy before the elections, and then you forget about them. In short, I'm sorry it won't go through. Although we would support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u71	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First of all, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Andre Couch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u72	Yeah, where would you continue with the presentation of your position? Yesterday, when we discussed the amendment to the value added tax law in the morning, by which I proposed that a higher and lower VAT rate be finally reimbursed to the pre-crisis level, so not that temporary measure which then became permanent, I received a lot of distortions and attacks from the United Left, SD and Desus parliamentary groups as part of the presentation of the parliamentary positions and that I was not present, but I am the proposer. Therefore, Presidents, I also ask if you can explain to all three very professional experts of the Rules of Procedure who treated me so badly yesterday that I am not in law, which I am proposing, that I did not have the opportunity to discuss and present the position of the applicant at all. Why did I even start with that? Because now I'm looking at these three parties, what a strong stakeout, and it's not even possible to underestimate someone, but there's hardly any people here. Even in the debate, as I have seen, most coalition members have checked out, so they are taking this point as a burden, let it pass, let us go to the parliamentary messoise, and let us go to some beer in the Pub Parliament, which is for today. I just think it's sad that a subject like young people is underestimated. But we've witnessed something reading, and I think we should start sharing credits for the reading badge. Again a similar scene, i.e. the first position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then the adopted positions of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which give no added value to the debate. It seems to me that we all underestimate the problem of young people and that this is clearly not the priority of this government, and unfortunately our policies or our policies. That's definitely my priority. For four years in the National Assembly, I am constantly listening to the praise of ministers, heads of government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, how they work for young people, how young people are a priority, what we will do. In the end, we don't do anything. That's a fact. The Ministry of Labour is simply taking some measures to subsidise young people to get a job. Of course, I know the purpose is good, but usually such forms do not prove effective. I am more inclined to create better conditions for entrepreneurship, the economy, a personal initiative. Here our business environment is unfortunately lagging behind for a number of comparable countries or countries that should be comparable. We've heard of intergenerational solidarity. That's what I heard from Desus. I think I agree that we are all for intergenerational solidarity and mutual assistance. I know that grandparents are proud of their grandchildren and that there and there, some euro is squeezed for some ice cream with some girl and that grandchildren are also helping out at home with their homework, that is perfectly understandable. It's some normal interhuman family base, and I wouldn't go into it at all. Another problem is what policy we have in Slovenia. And here I think we forget too many times about the generation of people between the ages of 18 and 40 or from birth to the age of 40. My peers usually work in Austria after a week because there are no jobs in the home environment. Fortunately, the young are at least so flexible that they go with the belly for bread abroad, but I don't think that's our goal. On the other hand, I have a question. I also support pensioners' problems to get rid of them. But it seems to me that you are the most apathetic in the Desus Group. Then by fire intervention, you call your president to repeat five of the same famous phrases, and then, of course, everything goes on without any change. Above all, I regret that, above all, pensioners with the lowest incomes are those who do not have any apparent commitment to the justice of pensioners and so on, and in fact more and more pensioners are living in poverty. But I do have one question. All the parliamentary groups that supported this decision at the end of 2014 on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, what has happened, that you have changed your mind in these two years. I must say that I am quite confused because you confidently criticised the proposal for a recommendation, and two years ago you all agreed that this was right and good. Maybe because you are then like, I'll say, "Frish" Members listen a little bit more to themselves and to me inside, and after three years all of this comes into some practice and automation, as the hand rises up, we'll be in, how down against. And some healthy farmer's mind is not present in this national council. When speaking to a representative of the Social Democrats, who said he was very much for young people, and here, the Presidents, I would say that I am talking about the participation of young people mainly in practice, from a practical level. For 10 years, I've been kind of active in the youth sector, and I don't want to take some theoretical or some sort of conversion. It is sad that today this proposal decides to ensure equality for young people in society and we will not vote. On the other hand, we have a national Youth Programme in place, which I think includes more than 300 pages of action, we have a Youth 2010 survey, and everything stands, nothing is done. We opened up the problem of eliminating volunteer traineeships, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with President Cerar, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, everyone said they disagreed with volunteer traineeships. What happened 10 days after that? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has called for a volunteer traineeship. And you ask yourself again, where do I live? But at least after it's changed. No, no, no. At that time, you refused concrete proposals from the opposition, if this is not going through, it will be bureaucracy, we will have to work, we will not be able to reconcile. And where are we after two and a half years of fighting to eliminate volunteerism and exploit young people? I think that just last week the Youth Council of Slovenia has again sent a request to convene an urgent meeting of the Justice Committee, as the growing problem in this area has left more and more young people dismayed. And we're sitting here saying that everything in this country is in the best order and that we don't have to worry. The important thing is that this mandate, but how long it's gonna take, we're having a little fun and we're having a nice, nice time, and then we're going to see how far we're going to go. Social Democrats also propose to include a youth representative in the SDH supervisory council. I cannot understand this duality or deviation, why it is then opposed to the inclusion of a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council, but, according to their logic, it should also be included in the SDH supervisory council. In the final phase, the SDH supervisory board is definitely committed to greater importance and responsibility. But I do not want to involve young people in capital and business decisions with this proposal. This is a matter for every individual, as has been said. With this proposal, I and probably all 10 Members who have put forward a proposal to sign a general debate today on the recommendation to involve young people in the policy-making process. That's the most important thing. I repeat, in December and January I received over 100 letters and views of young people, what they wanted, what they wanted to change. In the end, I realized that with some changes to 20 laws, I didn't think it was the wisest, because I knew that you would probably reject everything. However, given that two and a half years ago you adopted a decision, the SMC and SD and Desus to support the inclusion of a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council, I think, well, perhaps we will support this and then finally start in this process of policy-making in the field of economic, financial, health and social inclusion of young people. And it's just a recommendation. We recommend it. And I'm not going to say again that you agreed to do it. It's also about the government getting to know it, and it says, at least that's usually the way it is, anyway, we move on. So that's very problematic. The presentation of the parliamentary groups also stated that social dialogue is currently based on the 1994 agreement and rules. Fine, fine, but today we are in March 2017 and I think, as times, trends, indications and values change, social dialogue should probably change as well. But the most amazing thing is that you are proposing to the Government as an individual, to the best of your ability, a package of legislation, to at least make a minimum change in this country, and you are eventually rejected. Although this does not have a negative financial impact on the budget at all. The earlier reference was made to the proposal on student vouchers, an extension of four or two hours, when the appropriations are provided in the budget in one way or another. But no. I would therefore like to point out that last night or this morning, the Youth Council of Slovenia made this proposal clear. Although the president of the Youth Council is a member of one of the teenagers, I hope that he will not have any problems, but I am sure he will not have them. “The Youth Council of Slovenia has been working for a long time to involve young people in the Economic and Social Council, because we are convinced that” or in this case, “that the changed social situation dictates the need for a redefined social dialogue. Since the establishment of the Economic and Social Council in 1994, the economic and social situation in the country has changed radically. Today, many social groups are excluded from decision-making processes within the Economic and Social Council, although economic and social policies have the greatest impact on them. Social groups that do not have their own representative in this body also include young people. As a result, there is no one in decision-making processes in the Economic and Social Council to defend the interests and rights of young people. This is a particularly important fact that youth unemployment is still high and young people find it difficult to enter the labour market in which they are in an unequal position. In addition, according to OECD surveys, unemployment, irregular forms of work, low wages for work performed, difficult access to other services, young people belong to the poorest population. The inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council will also be discussed today by the National Assembly. As the proposal for a recommendation on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has not been adopted, Members will only have a discussion on the proposal. On the Council of Youth of Slovenia, we expect or expect Members to be "aware of the importance of greater involvement of young people in decision-making processes in society and that this agenda item will not lead to an empty agenda. We often see the situation that politics deals with young people only for the sake of their own promotion." They're so right. “When there is a situation in which the interests of young people should be realized, this policy’s affection for young people is simply shattered. The Youth Council of Slovenia will continue its activities in the field of youth participation in the Economic and Social Council." All employers' and workers' associations in the Economic and Social Council have been given the initiative for a meeting, at which they will be presented in more detail the importance of involving young people in decision-making processes within the Economic and Social Council. They are convinced that young people who are or are supposed to be the future of our society must also be allowed to co-create and co-form this society. Once again, because it is obviously difficult to understand, this recommendation does not give us any financial resources, no privileges, it is only about making it possible for young people to be equal. And once again, in this country, in all organs, no one talks or opens up problems for people aged 15 to 40. Everything's just tomorrow, and we're going to put some lasting solutions into some unspecified future. After all, some reforms have not yet been implemented by this government, and health reform in my opinion is not a health issue because it does not address the problem, but rather a tax reform because it divides people by income. I really don't know, and I don't understand that we don't try any more with all the alarming statistics. In the last 10 years alone, the number of young people in Slovenia has decreased by 11%. With such projections in recent years, we can expect a 20% drop in the next decade. The number of people over 65 years of age per youth is projected to triple by 2050. The government and the ministry have prepared some very famous and resounding action by Slovenia 2050 or Vision 2050, how then we will all be happy, but it seems to me that we will all be alone in our love of Slovenia, because there will simply be no more people. The labour market is unfriendly for young people, as it is also poorly linked to the educational system. Here, finally, thank God, there are some changes in the field of apprenticeship, but I hope that the principle that apprenticeship is part of the educational process and not employment is respected, because craft, entrepreneurship, the economy is already so steep and so taxed to the maximum that it is necessary to start a little different policy. The unemployment of graduates in Slovenia is increased by 240%. These data show that the situation in the labour market for Slovenian youth is relatively unfavourable and highly uncertain. In 2010 alone, 67% of respondents lived in parents. So in a decade, this has worsened by 15%. And it's probably worse today. After some international comparisons, young people in the European Union are later independent only in Greece. Political elites have a bad opinion of young people. This is expected and understandable, especially with regard to the environment that policy creates in Slovenia, i.e. an environment without perspective and without possibility. However, it is very important that I have listened to the presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups today, because young people are experiencing a situation in which they have been found to be relatively unpleasant and difficult, especially when they compare the situation of their growing up with that of the older generations. Even though some 40% of them think that in Slovenia it is better to care for the elderly than for the young and that the elderly should give up their share of their welfare for the benefit of young people. And that's alarming, which suggests that this policy that we're going to lead to an intergenerational conflict. And it's not a wish to me personally, and I believe you don't either, but I'm not in favour of taking something or taking something that you deserve, but I'm going to have to hit the table and do something for the young. If not budgetaryly, somewhere else to listen, at least at the symbolic level. Statistics are catastrophic. Expulsion of the population from Slovenia is also important. If in 2009, when the economic crisis hit, there were as many as 10 000 434 young people, and somehow this trend dropped by 2011, almost halved, and we have again a marked trend in the growth of young people up to the age of 34. In 2013 6 000 680 and in 2014 already 7 000 629. I do not yet have statistics for 2015 and 2016, but as I have been able to understand from the positions of the groups of Members, this trend is even greater. If we boast about what measures we improve the conditions and subsidize youth unemployment with subsidies, I would say the percentage of unemployed youth in the employment services of the Slovenian Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. I cannot be proud of the fact that there are 27.4% on Ptuj, despite the fact that many young people are not already registered as unemployed in this environment because they work in Austria. If we go further, Velenje 24.8%, Trbovlje 22.8%, Novo mesto 23.2%, Maribor 22.6%, Sevnica 20.5%, Murska Sobota 20.8%, Celje 20, Ljubljana 19.9%. I think it's a catastrophic statistic that shows that we need to finally take action and do something. However, we have 51.9% of unemployed young people who are the first job seekers. 30% of young people have been registered at the Employment Institute for more than a year and are likely to become long-term unemployed, and then we all know what this means for a young individual and his motivation for action. I know that I may be disturbing someone to discuss in such a package, but given the warmth of the participants in the debate and all the cancellations of the coalition Members, there is no other way for me as a proposaler, otherwise the end of the agenda item, which is obviously your purpose. You might also read some of the recommendations of the Slovenian Youth Council, which clearly show with arguments, are no creation of truth or alternative facts, as you like to say, or fake news. The participation of young people improves the success of achieving their autonomy and improves the quality of management of society and life in it. I think here, if we now put to the vote, that young people should have a say in decision-making and that the participation of young people in institutions and processes serves to create an environment in which young people can assume responsibility for their own future and the future of society, which contributes to achieving autonomy – I don't know, do you agree with this or not? The computer's more important, isn't it? On the other hand, young people have the opportunity to co-manage society and participation by acquiring competences. We all know that the youth sector in the Republic of Slovenia is well fed. These few thousand or hundreds of thousands of euros, which the country devotes at the annual level, are some programmes that do not have a broader reach for young people who are apathetic and inactive. On the other hand, it seems to me that it is necessary to remember all local communities, many of you are also municipal saints, and the congregations should encourage the youth councils of local communities to activate themselves, to be active, to engage. It seems to me that at the last coordination of the youth councils of the Republic of Slovenia, which was one month ago, there were five or six youth councils of local communities. This also shows that, unfortunately, many of these cuts hit the youth sector mainly when the municipalities started saving in the field of social activities, especially youth education, sport. The fact that, compared to some other Western European democracies, the political participation of young people in Slovenia is weak and weak is no wonder, is more a fact that we have to deal with. At the same time, the main problem is that the young generation lacks motivation for all forms of participation. The fact is that young people later take responsibility in all areas of life and become independent as a result of prolonged childhood. On the other hand, young people are focused on rapid and visible effects, changes that many forms of participation, negotiation, elections often do not bring. Young people are becoming increasingly alienated and self-sufficient and do not see opportunities to connect with others. Young people are strongly subject to consumerism and are more likely to respond to developments than to create them. The same applies to the youth sphere. Young people prefer to participate in events already in progress rather than participate in organising them themselves. In addition, as I said, the problem of youth participation in Slovenia is broader, at local level, it is also important to note the problem of sufficient information for young people, because it is simple that many municipalities or youth organisations cannot even educate or inform young people about some of the most basic topics. I would therefore also like to conclude my part of the debate with recommendations, which I will also include in the next text of the proposal of this Recommendation, which I have announced so far that we will re- table. From then on, several Members have come to me, including young and socially responsible organisations, so that we will complement this text accordingly, and I hope that you will be a little more eloquent at that time. It seems to me that what you are doing is more fun from democracy and parliament than some active parliamentary system. Maybe a shorter break, and then I'll resume.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u73	We have four panellists registered. First of all, Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Andrej Chus. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. We do not need intergenerational conflict, but mutual respect and the search for solutions for all generations. Yesterday we talked a lot about demography when we talked about the New Slovenia law on payment of kindergartens. At that time, we found that about 10,000 children are underborn for the regeneration of the nation each year. However, we did not take this into consideration, or we did not take into account the fact that young people are being evicted each year. The elderly find themselves somehow, less willing to go abroad. Some go to work across the border, so the number of young people in Slovenia is decreasing in one way or another. When dealing with certain laws of interest to young people, whether in the field of education or other issues, young people often make themselves known for their discussions with Members. I am constantly impressed or surprised at how well they are prepared, how well they have studied the subject and that they also have good suggestions. It is therefore a shame for me not to include them in this Economic and Social Council, especially if they also express their will, willingness, desire to cooperate here. We often complain that young people do not go to elections, that young people are not interested in being socially active when they want to be, but that we are not giving them the chance to do so. Therefore, Nova Slovenija also supported these recommendations because we want young people to have more words about their future in this country. Young people are a wealth for every nation. They're the future of the people. We know that some countries have been created precisely because they had many children, many young people, and they have been able to win their own elections and so on. That is why young people are still important in every society, in every country. The young are in an unenviable position today. We know that there are almost no jobs for an indefinite period, or very few. That means they can't get credit, or they can get it much harder, which means they can't start their family, get housing, and so on, it's all connected. Employers also warn us many times that we would employ many more people if our labour legislation were more flexible, so we know that the proportion of employees for an indefinite period is decreasing, including fewer and fewer young people, and the proportion of unemployed or custodial jobs for a certain period of time is increasing. That is why it would be good for young people to sit in the Economic and Social Council and to draw attention to these problems. We also know that young people worry about pensions and we often hear, yes, because we will never get them again. We do know, however, that employed people are paying into a pension fund, from which we immediately spend the money to pay the pensions of those who have already retired. Of course, I don't think the pensioners deserved it here, because they paid up before, and other pensioners benefited. In short, young people are important, necessary. I have always advocated the principle that in every organisation, even in a party, wherever, there is an important generation representation. That all generations that have to respect each other are represented. Older people because they may have done their part and have credit for the past and are precious to us with their experiences, the middle generation, which has the most responsibilities, the most work, the most experience, and the young generation, which has new ideas, new experiences, new energy and also a lot of new knowledge. It is not so rare to want to take advantage and to be obvious to us, not from our party, from any other party, that in New Slovenia young people play too much role. I am happy and proud to have them as part of our party, as part of our association, and yes, thank God they don't care what happens in society and that they want to participate and co-decision in this. I therefore stress that the involvement of young people is extremely important in all areas, in all decisions and that we should give them the opportunity, encourage them by doing so, be glad that they want to cooperate, while we are constantly complaining about how apathetic they are, how they have no future, how they do not know what to do with themselves. Thank God that we meet again and again also young people who do not sit at the crossroads of hands, who are entrepreneurs looking for solutions that set up their businesses, which employs even others who have solutions. Of course, not everyone is qualified enough, capable, or unwilling enough to do so. Thank God there's a lot of them. And we are counting on these, and let us give them the opportunity and the opportunity to participate in the decisions that we are taking in this national assembly, which the government is taking, because these decisions affect all generations, and most of all the young people, because they are likely to live and benefit from these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u75	We've got two more reported discussers, First of all, Mr Andrej Chuš, let Mr Marijan Pojbič be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u76	Yes, it is nothing, it is indeed a real exhaustion, but of course we will make sure that ideas, initiatives, proposals and desires are heard. That is why I would point out once again, as Mrs Novakova has already said, that today many young people feel rejected, feel that they do not have any advocate to be despised by the authorities. With the fact that the population is always old and young people are moving out, we will find ourselves in a situation where the Slovenian pension register will be more empty than it is today. Of course, many young people also get the feeling that when they announce themselves by parliamentary groups, I have accepted representatives of the Youth Council, the Students' Organisation of Slovenia, youth activists and some other NGOs with public interest status in the youth sector, they are proposing something, but they are always rejected. I would like to say that last week, on Friday, I attended a student's national conference in Ljubljana, which was attended, I think that about 40 pupils and students from most of the final years from all statistical units of Slovenia. We talked a lot about what to do for young people. A number of initiatives and wishes have also been taken into account by them in this package, which has been tabled. But some ideas were a little bit more controversial, but I don't think it would make sense to discuss this today, given your interest in this. However, the widest debate on the right to vote was to allow electoral rights at least at the local elections, following the example of some other neighbouring countries, at the age of 16. In the final stage, this would contribute to the final mass of young people who can vote. Today, you can see that more and more young people are moving out, and unfortunately these voices are no longer present. But what was even more problematic than this election right was when they asked me if anything could be changed. At the time, I was in a bit of a panic, a crisis, something to say. When a person watches a national assembly on TV, as well as here, he gets the feeling that you can propose everything alive, I don't know what measures that don't hurt anyone, they benefit more, but nothing moves. We've previously highlighted the abolition of volunteer traineeships. We've been talking about this for three years, and there's probably going to be a double election before, and the Chinese are going to be changing the government and the Russians are going to be changing the President, and something else is going to happen in the meantime, but it's important that we are the smartest and we know everything. Young people have also seen and felt that nothing can be changed, which is disturbing. On the other hand, they themselves get the feeling that no one opens up and addresses their daily problems and problems. Here, when we talk about the intergenerational conflict, however, I call for some social partners to give up their powers and powers at the expense of intergenerational cooperation and solidarity in the future, because in the final phase of the intergenerational conflict, given that 40% of young people already wanted the older waiver of the work of rights and, say, of privileges, I think this percentage is much higher today. And that's not good for prosperity and maybe, if I say so, we've talked about migrants before, including for the security and stability of the country. If there is no initiative to change all this, another parliamentary majority will have to do so. Otherwise, you know, we need to make sure that today the main thing for young people in Slovenia is not to look for as cheap air tickets as possible to go abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, in which, if you wish, you will receive the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Representative of the proposer, would you like a word? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u78	I don't have that kind of experience yet, but I'm going to be very short, and I'm going to take what I think. In this national assembly, however, the man probably wants to change something in the country too, to suggest that he listens to the young people who are all here full of mouths, but I think we are here in another world, away from some serious problems and people's problems, and no one cares about the problems of young people. You did not extend the use of student vouchers for two hours, but we still have this pleasant sent-off cafeteria. But you know what the human river says, I'll repeat it again: With a full ass is the easiest "shit".
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u79	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing he does. I give my word to Mr. Jank Webra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the context of the proposal or recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council, I would like to point out first the statement in this recommendation that the Economic and Social Council, or one part of the representatives in the Economic and Social Council, has refused the wish of young people to participate in the consideration of the White Paper on the Pension System. I must admit that this is a surprise to me too, because nothing less than what would be expected is that they would be able to present their views there, because we know that in 2034, according to all these predictions, there will be insufficient resources under the unchanged conditions of the pension system, in which very young people will enter at that time. Of course, today's agenda should take into account the following fact that the rules for the functioning of the Economic and Social Council are actually adopted by all three partners, namely the Government, workers' representatives and employers' representatives. In doing so, they are bound by the provision that, in fact, the rules can only be amended with full agreement, so all three partners must agree to include, say, young as an equivalent partner in the Economic and Social Council. The problem is that, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service in its position, the National Assembly is not, in fact, able to impose on organisations or individuals who do not perform public service or exercise public authority, tasks or recommendations, or to make recommendations to them, so they are completely independent in these decisions. Therefore, it would be urgent to refer to all three partners, both employers and employees, and not only to the Government, as was done with this recommendation. This will allow a positive response to the remaining two partners in the Economic and Social Council and will try to agree on a composition that is also crucial for decision-making in the Economic and Social Council. The National Assembly cannot impose on at least two representatives in the Economic and Social Council to take these recommendations into account and could not be supported in this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u81	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. This is a proposal for a recommendation on the implementation of the European cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 19 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Mr Ljub Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The use of European funds in the period 2014-2020 is not satisfactory and we point out this by the drafters of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. This fact is also confirmed by the figures shown. The Minister stressed, in particular, that the European Union Committee on Affairs has made a rather successful withdrawal of funds in the past financial perspective 2007-2013 for the current financial period, and that they will work hard, with the fact that they have a lack of staff. Well, let's do it in a row. Slovenia has been placed among the better members in the past financial perspective, especially in the last three years from 2013 to 2015. However, a new financial period has started since 2014 and will be implemented by 2020 and extended to 2023. Drawing from this perspective is significantly smaller and worrying and, in our view, requires urgent action. Slovenia has an indicative €3.2 billion in European Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund over the period 2014-2020, of which €160 million is allocated to European Observation Instruments and €64 million to the European Territorial Cooperation Programme and most of the funds take account of the implementation of the European Union 2020 strategy and is prioritized in four key areas for economic growth and job creation. Slovenia is divided into the Eastern and Western cohesion region on the basis of the methodology of the European Union. The Western cohesion region is eligible for EUR 855 million and EUR 1.27 billion for the East. Cohesion Fund funds will not be shared among regions, and the entire of Slovenia will have €55 million available for the construction of environmental and transport infrastructure in the area of sustainable energy use. The first calls and visits made by the government team in the capital, when Ljubljana promised EUR 300 million for 34 projects to be implemented by 2018, show that the government has no equivalent approach to the other regions. How badly we are prepared to draw on European funds, the fact that Slovenia, which was once among the more successful new members in drawing on European funds, has only accredited the system of implementation of the European cohesion policy for this financial perspective in early December 2016. Accreditation of the system may begin to draw on European cohesion funds. Although Slovenia has already received a reminder from the European Commission due to the delay in accreditation of the system of implementation of cohesion policy. The European Commission must also take note of the completion of the procedures in Slovenia and issue a notification. Slovenia will then be able to submit requests for the adoption of European funds. This is the order in which the whole process takes place. This means that the country from the European Union budget will be able to start investing in reimbursements for projects co-financed by European funds already funded by the national budget. The audit body of the Office for the Control of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia cannot confirm to the European Commission that we currently have a functioning and successful system of drawing on European funds in Slovenia. This is precisely why our country was not allowed to send higher-volume claims to Brussels at that time for the reimbursement of the national budget payments under the European projects. The first financial support decision from the 2014-2020 programming period was issued only in July 2016. By the beginning of December 2016, some more than 150 had been issued to the Government. The figures that have been paid up to now show that the European funds have not been drawn up in any way. Data from July 2015 show that we will draw around €35 million already in 2015 and about half a billion in 2016. The real reality is that by the end of November 2016 only €87.2 million, or 2.7% of all that is actually available, were paid together. European funds are of paramount importance to the country, as they are practically the only development funds available to us. By drawing on these funds, Slovenia would maintain the status of the net recipient from the European budget, which means that it would invest less in the European cash register than it would get from it. Since many major projects have been implemented in Slovenia with European funds, it is a worrying fact that it is currently lagging behind other net recipients in the European Union. Slovenia, as a net recipient of the European cash register, ranked 10th among the 16 recipients, received EUR 578 million from the European budget in 2015 and paid slightly less than EUR 57 million. This is a data draw from the past perspective. This is not the result of a new perspective, but this is the final year of the 2007-2013 perspective. The data show that the state of the European Union budget drawback is the worst in the 12-year drawback period, and we are therefore at risk of losing the net receipt status of the European budget, which means that Slovenian taxpayers will pay more than we actually get from the European Union budget after unnecessary payments. We also note that payments from the national budget are not satisfactory. Data show that by the end of November 2016 only €87.2 million had been paid out of the 3.2 billion euro total available to Slovenia for drawing. The report, however, planned payments of EUR 200 million by the end of 2016. Compared to the previous multi-annual financial period, Slovenia has been paid 10 times more in the first two years of the financial perspective 2007-2013. These are the numbers you can look at and check. On 24 October 2016, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia published an audit report on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the management body’s information system. The report revised the effectiveness and effectiveness of the information system to support the implementation of the tasks of management authorities for the period from 1.3.2012 to 30.9.2015. The findings are worrisome as it was found that the managing authority did not ensure the effective functioning of the information system to support the performance of the tasks of the managing authority. For the 2014-2020 programming period, the Court of Auditors concluded that it has not prepared a strategy for the development of the information system at all. We are wondering how, in the new financial perspective, pumping can be slower than in the previous perspective, given that, after one financial perspective, we could have more experience in asset management and European cohesion policy. At the SVR, however, they say that by mid-December 2016, they had allocated more than EUR 800 million or a quarter of all available money for 156 decisions. That the money is allocated means that individual tenders are granted, so that a green light is given, that a sum is redistributed for a specific project. If the money is allocated for a call, it means that the invitation to tender may also be published by the Ministry. From the money allocated to the money actually spent, and especially to the reimbursement of funds from the European Treasury, it is a very long way to go. When the subsidy goes to the beneficiary, this is the first burden of the Slovenian budget, only after the reimbursement comes from the European Union budget. For the time being, these refunds are not, or are, minimal because it is only in December that the Government has approved a system for the implementation of European policy, which is the basis for the European Union budget to begin repayments at all. That the drawing of funds this year has not yet been made clear, as originally announced, companies have also felt. In fact, in 2014, 2015 and also in 2016, there were virtually no calls for tenders due to the late publication of the tenders. The media also reported that the country is also missing part of the European research funding, as it has not yet signed up for a European research activity and the research agency could obtain up to €20 million from the new European perspective for young researchers under the COFUND call Marie Skłodowska-Curie, but we have not even sent an application to Brussels. In the context of the application, two project proposals should be drawn up where a call for young researchers and a call for researchers wishing to go abroad should be presented. The Agency was told that it was not possible to prepare a quality and competitive application, but that they would apply in 2017. In relation to the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, we have proposed to the Government that it accelerate the withdrawal from the programming perspective and report within three months to the National Assembly on the appropriate measures, not that it will inform us quarterlyly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u83	The proposal for a recommendation is 7. 3. dealt with by the Committee on European Union Affairs. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Izidor Kamal Shaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Director, Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on European Union Affairs shall meet at its 119th session. 3. The draft recommendation submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank, was considered by the parent working body. Mr Ljubo Žnidar gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant, stressing that the absorption of cohesion funds in the period 2014-2020 is not satisfactory. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion of this service on a proposal for a recommendation proposing a more correct terminology and only one addressee of this recommendation. In its opening remarks, Minister Alenka Smerkolj stressed that the Republic of Slovenia was successful in drawing on European cohesion policy and then presented related indicators from the pre-accession period to today. In the past period, there were problems at first, but in the end, there was a real shift in the direction that Slovenia jumped from 19th to 4th among all Member States of the European Union and thus between those countries that managed to draw all possible funds by 2015. With regard to the current period, she stressed that there are still some appropriate mechanisms to be put in place, but that matters are being resolved. It also recalled that the European Union Affairs Committee considers every three months the report on the current state of European cohesion funds drawback, with representatives of local community associations present, and that this dialogue between the National Assembly or the Committee and the Government has a positive impact on all government activities related to it. The President of the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia and the Director of the Office for European Cohesion Policy also gave their views on pumping. However, in the debate between the members and members of the Committee, it was pointed out that this report dealt with the last quarterly report two weeks ago, which explained in detail how the current fund-raising was taking place. Regarding the efficiency of drawing, the opinions differed, but members were of the opinion that pumping or preparation was successful. Following the vote of the proposal, the Committee did not adopt the recommendation and the Chairman of the Committee, on the basis of an interpretation by the Commission on Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9 December 2009, concluded that the consideration of this recommendation is on the home working body, that is, the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u85	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister responsible for development, strategic projects and the cohesion of Mrs Alenka Smercolj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u86	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I believe it is a good time to discuss European cohesion policy at the plenary session of the National Assembly. This is mainly because there is a lot going on in this area, because we have achieved a lot here and because it is right that this topic, which is useful for different interpretations, is discussed as much as possible. Talk to the data and facts. However, the moment is also appropriate because an intensive development has already begun with regard to the next financial framework beyond 2020. In your explanation for your proposal, you have carefully analysed both the past and the present and also expressed concern for future steps in this area. The government has carefully examined the proposalr's material, prepared a response at all 26 points. Allow me to briefly present what we have written and reply to your comments. Pre-accession period. We agree with the proposalers' finding that Slovenia was successful during this period. In times, in times like Phare, Ispa, Sapard, there was also a negative perception around them that we would not draw resources. But we did. These funds were also largely intended for Slovenian officials and other stakeholders to learn how to use European money. And they did. After joining the EU, Slovenia became eligible for European cohesion policy funds, and in certain years it was no longer so successful in drawing on EU funds. And that's what the proponents wrote down. Of course, questions arise as to why. We had a well-established system of trained personnel, we learned how to work with European funds, and yet it happened that the Republic of Slovenia was a net payer in the European budget in 2007 and 2008. What happened? There have been changes, both institutional and human resources. In 12 years 5 management bodies, 5 different institutions at the head of this complex system. Presidents exchanged, even more so than institutions, and they exchanged both leadership and other staff. Knowledge and skills went out with them. The backlogs on some programs were so great that we were threatened with several hundred million losses. And yet it didn't happen. It didn't happen because this government didn't make the mistake of the previous ones. It did not set up a new institution, it did not replace senior staff, and public servants felt stability in the system. And yes, we used all the funds, all 4.1 billion euros, and let me say here what the European Commissioner said about this area when we met in January this year. That she didn't believe it was possible to make such a leap. And I believed. When I entered this service in October 2014, 45 % of the funds needed to be drawn from the Brussels treasury were still in our cohesion bag, even though the official programming period was already over. Let me remind you, 2007-2013. This government took office in September 2014, but we succeeded. Slovenia has jumped from 19th to 4th among all Member States. It has been successful among those countries that have managed to draw all possible funds from Brussels so far. In addition to all these achievements, we have also set up at the same time all necessary to start implementing the 2014-2020 programming period, which ends in 2023. Yes, in 2023, which means that these funds are available for a further seven years. But even though they are practically only two years into implementation, we are already working on how we are not doing. But let me tell you exactly what the data says. To date, we have issued 186 decisions on support, which is a third of the available resources, representing just over €920 million in numbers. These funds now run co-financing projects and programmes from all three European Cohesion Policy funds. We have accredited the implementation system, we are paying EU funds out of the budget and we are getting them out of the Brussels treasury. We have some work to do in meeting the requirements of e-cohesion, and we are working hard on this to meet the expectations of the Court of Auditors. I'm slowly finishing this introductory part. Let me just touch on the recommendation that we report back to the National Assembly in three months. And that is exactly what we have been doing since 2014 on the initiative of Mr Horvath's Member. I estimate that there is no need to change the reporting system, which is leaky and gives the National Assembly an overview of what is going on in this area. Make sure that's enough for an introduction. Of course, I am happy to be available for all the answers to your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is the European Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In particular, we would like to stress that the successful withdrawal of the development resources available to us from the European cohesion policy is crucial to ensuring the development money needed for coherent regional development. The success of drawing is also the main and decisive factor in measuring whether Slovenia, which is still less developed than the average of the European Union, remains a net recipient of funds or pays more to the budget of the European Union than it can obtain from it. At this point, we would like to highlight the fact that, even when we are considering budgets for 2017 and 2018, we have highlighted in particular the fact that our national budget could also be significantly more optimistic if we had prepared all the basis for European funding. The Ministry of Finance was late in the preparation of acts that could enable more active use of funds in the period 2017-2018, and this was one of the important warnings from our side in the adoption of budgets. We are aware that European co-financing of development projects varies across seven-year budgetary periods, as both the priorities and the co-financing projects are changing, as well as the position and priorities of the recipient country. In addition, the evaluation of the effectiveness of drawing on funds from individual European budgets further sheds light on the fact that funds are often acquired in one budget period due to delays and multi-annual activities only in the next budget. Thus, at the time of the superficial review, it may seem that the use of funds is not effective enough or that we receive signals of the performance of the current activities, although indicators of success naturally choose from past efforts. Of course, the transition to a new European budget and priorities also impact on what types of projects co-financing can be obtained and how it can be ensured. The fact is that the types of projects financed have changed. Projects that have a somewhat broader impact are encouraged, and more emphasis is placed on the so-called soft content. This is a significant difference in relation to the previous budget period, because in the previous budget period, development money could be distributed across development regions, so that everyone has received part of these funds and allocated them to concrete investments, not to soft projects as foreseen in the new financial perspective. Here we must also stress that the implementation of projects at regional level for specific investments has also had a significant impact on economic growth in Slovenia during the economic and financial crisis. This raises today the question of when the impact of so-called soft projects will be shown in the coming years, especially if they are not addressed so that, on the basis of these softer wider projects, it is possible to prepare projects for concrete investments and thus the possibility of supporting the economy and ensuring economic growth. In doing so, we would also like to remind Slovenia that, at the time of entry into full membership of the European Union, it was able to participate fully in the financial perspective for the period 2007-2014. It has to be admitted that the beginning wasn't the best. At the same time, however, it must be pointed out that only the Social Democratic Government has established a system in 2008-2011 that has enabled the country to draw on European development money more effectively. That is why, in the previous financial perspective, Slovenia was a net recipient of funds, which is why it was able to obtain more from the European budget than it had paid for. And it was reasonable to expect that this would be the case during the new seven-year period. It is essential for the successful acquisition of European development funds that we do not somehow fall asleep on laurels or good work in the past period, because any delay or slow adjustment to the situation may not have an immediate negative effect, but this will certainly be reflected in a few years. However, since common funds are limited, it is also extremely important that regions, municipalities and, of course, the Government should be coordinated in advance on priorities. The involvement and involvement of the general public as far as possible in these projects, and of course the general benefits and not only the narrow interests, must be followed, is one of the key orientations to prepare good foundations for the absorption of resources in the future. In doing so, we would like to point out, however, that it is necessary to re-emphasize the importance of the timely start of preparation for changes, as it is clear from the examination on the working bodies that we have entered the current financial perspective with a delay. However, this delay was mainly due to activities in 2011 and 2012, when preparations for the start of the new programming period were to be prepared with exceptional high intensity, but during the so-called second government of Janez Janša we met with the fact that they had somehow shrinked dramatically or, if you want, slashed state investment, co-financing of projects and also ignored the substantive changes in funding criteria that were already being prepared at the level of the European Union for the new European budget or for the new European financial perspective. It is therefore not unusual that we have entered the current budget period under-coordinated in priorities and are also under-optimally ready to pump. We therefore point out that these facts must also be taken into account by the applicants and, somehow, also self-critically, whether limiting investments was the right decision. For the reason that the consistent development of Slovenia and its funding from the common funds available to us are a strategic interest of all of us, we expect not only further discussions, but also the full cooperation of all actors to identify the best possible priorities and the best possible basis for projects that will draw on European funds. Without this, in the next term, or in the next term, we may face the problem that they will not have sufficient ground to successfully complete the financial perspective as it was concluded in the previous period. We hope that today's debate will also contribute greatly to this realisation and preparation of programmes in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u89	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. The recommendation on European cohesion policy does not have much meat on the bones. Its contents are empty and calls for the accelerated absorption of European cohesion funds and reporting on measures taken. Who in their right mind would not want to accelerate the absorption of cohesion funds? From this point of view, we will not oppose him in the United Left. However, we will not even support it, because it does not make much sense, but at the same time it does not touch on the main issues and problems of cohesion funds. Cohesion funds are key development funds that the country can access. The financial and economic crisis has become practically the only means we can use to develop. This has led to an increase in pressure on this frog, which in practice shows that control over the management of cohesion funds has become one of the key levers of government and its associated clientelistic links. At the same time, it has become an important exclusive issue of efficiency or inefficiency in drawing. In the context of cohesion, in fact, every thought or criticism is subject to how much and how quickly money will be spent. If we look at the statistical classification, Slovenia is at the top of the Member States, as regards the effectiveness of drawing on these funds, which does not, of course, mean that cohesion funds are all the way they should be. Far from it. If we remember the bad three years ago, at the beginning of the government of Mir Cerar, the Prime Minister promised that his government would be a project government, that SVRK was one of the most important parts of the government. In fact, there have been worse problems already in the first part of drawing on the funding from the 2014-2020 financial framework. And the project government alone remains the government, and the government is even worse. Nevertheless, we never, or at least very rarely, ask ourselves what to do with European cohesion funds at all. Not whether we're going to pump up the last bit of everything, but how these funds are used, for what purpose, and what they're achieved with. The main issue involved is the development strategy, the area of specialisation, industrial policy, research and education. All these documents exist, but they're more than a formality, a letter on paper. The goals are clear, but let's leave this to the point where they're set up ambitiously enough, on the side at this point. To mention just two examples from the Europe 2020 strategy, 3% of the European Union's GDP for R & D investment and 20 million less poor and socially excluded people. Slovenia has set itself a target of 40,000. Given the use of funds from the European Social Fund, where these funds are often shared solely to avoid remaining unused, for projects that have no impact, except for huge bureaucratic obligations, which leads me to the root problem. Cohesive assets are not donated and are not won on a flight. Certainly not all the responsibility of the State to be used, as they are to an excessive extent. The European Union is the one that sets a very rigid framework here, as is the case with public finances. And here he swears on the ideology of the free market, which also reflects the choice of priorities and the possibility of using cohesion funds. In fact, countries have at least partially bound hands, and we must take this into account, but they can act against it. Instead of working towards this framework, the Government of Mira Cerar to relax Member States in all areas instead of non-democratic European institutions to have more power and leverage of decision, Slovenia is the most obedient student, and Prime Minister Miro Cerar is on every occasion a good man to Mr Juncker and Mrs Merkel, but this is another question. As stated in the introduction, we will abstain from the current recommendation, as today's recommendation is simply to address the problem while the key questions remain unanswered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u91	The New Slovenia-Christian Democrats' Group has the floor for it, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Minister, Mr Director, dear colleagues and colleagues! Since 1 May 2004, Slovenia has become a full member of the European Union, more than 5,000 different projects have been financed from European funds in Slovenia. Sometimes I say that the European Union has a monument in every Slovenian village. This is not a sculpture, of course, at least not, it can be a communal infrastructure, a broadband network, sewerage systems, water supply, kindergarten, rehabilitation of various public buildings in terms of efficient energy use and so on. Of course, these are also various projects from the scientific research sphere. For us, for Slovenia in this financial perspective, this 3 billion and 12 million, and now an additional 56 million, this is practically the only fund, these are the only irreversible and only development funds. It is therefore important that we make good and rational use of them in this financial framework 2014-2020 and plus another three years. We probably all agree, when considering the recommendations on the implementation of European cohesion policy, that the effort to achieve more equitable regional development is very important for our society, that it is crucial. Unfortunately, Slovenia is too centralised in many ways. Infrastructural and, consequently, economic development is rather disproportionately focused on the central Slovenian region or Ljubljana. People living in rural areas, in the periphery, often regret to meet with much poorer infrastructure conditions, resulting in poor performance in economic development and demographic indicators. The countryside is mainly empty in the periphery. The Slovenian countryside is becoming more empty, paralyzed in some way, from month to month. And the time is right or extreme for the government to take action by taking measures to ensure that young people remain in the Slovenian countryside. We must prevent this, we must prevent this from happening, so that the countryside is empty. The proper tool to reverse this trend is certainly also the deliberate implementation of European cohesion policy. The proposal for a Recommendation on the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the 2014-2020 programming period contains a very short and concise recommendation to the Government, the text reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development and European Cohesion Policy to accelerate the withdrawal from the programming perspective 2014-2020 and, within three months of the adoption of this Recommendation, they shall report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the measures taken to improve the absorption of funds from the programming perspective 2014-2020." The proposed text of the recommendation is, of course, the power to agree and we support this in Novi Slovenija.In Novi Slovenija we find no reason not to support the recommendations. However, already at the European Union Affairs Committee meeting on 2 March this year, the Committee proposed a decision calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to "take steps to amend the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 and to provide sufficient resources for infrastructure and other local community projects in accordance with the agreement for the development of the regions". End of story. Minister Alenka Smercolj has already said at the same meeting of the Committee that informal green light is for changes to the operational programme and that they are already prepared for this at the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy. It was precisely because of these informal assurances made by the Minister that we were somewhat surprised that the coalition of the proposal for a decision by the Committee proposing a change of the operational programme for the implementation of the European cohesion policy with a strict purpose, i.e. for the co-financing of projects by local communities and regions, did not support. We regret this and in New Slovenia we once again express our support for efforts to change the operational programme. In doing so, let us also express our expectation that municipal or regional projects will be provided with funds that will meet the needs of equitable regional development and the preservation of our rural area. Madam Minister knows that she has allies in Novi Slovenija, as regards her efforts to maximize or draw 100% of European cohesion funds in this 2014-2020 programming period. Of course, we want and expect, here I would like to remind the local community right here, probably no one will object to the claim and cannot object to the fact that drawing on cohesion funds in the previous financial perspective 2007-2013, which was very well drawn, we were in fourth place in Europe, all commended to the deserving, but that this good withdrawal was saved in addition to the Government Service by the local communities. Today I find it somewhat difficult to feel that the local communities are being pushed back to ignore them, and I also do not know what the development of the regions will be like or what the effects will be, the results of the agreement for the development of the regions, because obviously there is no money, and in the previous perspective there was €620 million for the development of the regions. Many regions, ladies and gentlemen, do not yet have the water supply saved. When we wrote down the right of everyone to drinking water in the Constitution, I noticed the professional articles, the professional articles, not the populist articles, because I am not interested in you, and from there I gathered information that there are still about 280 000 citizens and citizens drinking water that is not being monitored. So they don't know if this water is really potable if it really meets the criteria set out in the drinking water code. So they drink water, but they don't know if it's potty. And we have this right in the constitution. Of course, I am aware that the Constitution is not an enforceable act, but it is above all laws. And laws should respect the Constitution. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a recommendation on the implementation of European cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period. And there's something else I'd like to say here. When I was president of the Committee on European Union Affairs as an opposition Member in the previous term, during Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, I was extremely pleased that, together at that time, all of us, the coalition and the opposition, which is always in the minority, have decided that the Government will quarterly report to the Committee on European Union Affairs, which is now chaired by counterpart Kamal, on the drawdown of cohesion funds. We have recently considered the report of the Government on the absorption of cohesion funds for the three-year period 2014, 2015 and 2016 on 2 March. The government itself has stated that this decision of the Committee on European Union Affairs is of great benefit to it, represented by a catalyst, an accelerator in the implementation of European cohesion policy. I conclude with the expectation that the operational programme for the implementation of cohesion policy will be renewed during the 2014-2020 programming period, with the emphasis on providing sufficient resources for the implementation of local community projects that receive less money each day every year and that this operational programme will also be amended in accordance with the agreement for the development of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u93	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you again, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In the context of the proposal for this Recommendation concerning the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020, I must first point out that some of these data are rather inaccurate, if not misleading. The applicants argue that the European Commission still needs to take note of the completion of the procedures for the accreditation of the system of implementation of the European Cohesion Policy from 2014 to 2020 in Slovenia and to issue a notification. Only then will Slovenia be able to submit requests for European funds. This claim is not true, since in 2016 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Development and European Cohesion Policy Service, together with the participating authorities, accredited the system for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy and also informed the European Commission, which has already enabled the first inflow into the Slovenian budget. The recommendations also state that Slovenia has received a written reminder from the European Commission due to the delay in the accreditation of the system of implementation of European cohesion policy. Neither is this claim, since the Republic of Slovenia has not received any warning by this time. It should be stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in this mandate adopted in 2014 in the field of the success of European cohesion policy, has received a markedly poor legacy, which was a reflection of the policy of the past governments. In 2015, the government, the Government of Mira Cerar, in addition to ensuring the successful implementation of all three operational programmes of the 2007-2013 financial framework, also set up an implementation system for the 2014-2020 programming period. It is clear from the above that, despite the extremely poor situation at the beginning of this government's mandate, Slovenia has made significant progress in the implementation of the 2014-2020 programming period while at the same time preventing the threatening loss of funds from the past perspective. The implementation of European cohesion policy needs to be looked at in the context of a longer period of time and, above all, it is necessary to know the developments related to both programming periods: 2007-2013 and 2014-2020. With regard to the 2007-2013 programming period, it is important to emphasise this, and every time again, that the current government or SVRK has absorbed almost half of all the funds of the nine-year period in 2014 and 2015. The eligibility of the period 2007-2013 also extends to 2014 and 2015. I think that this was about 45%, and most likely the Minister will say it herself, and this is again at the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Thus, at the end of 2015, Slovenia achieved an extremely successful period when, despite the great challenges and huge backlogs in the 2007-2013 financial framework, the SVR has managed to increase its EU funding absorption so strongly in just two years that Slovenia has arrived from 19th place in the EU to an excellent fourth place. By the end of 2015, Slovenia had managed to draw up all possible funds and thus completed the programming period 2007-2013 by maximising the use of available resources. This programming period has brought more than 5,000 projects to Slovenia and has also enabled the opening of 5,000 900 jobs. At present, the full implementation of the 2014-2020 programming period, which has so far been supported, I repeat, 178 projects for more than €870 million of European funds, which is almost 30% of all the funds available in Slovenia by 2023, is a good €3 billion in this programming period. As has already been said, and is likely to be repeated or repeated again today, the SVRK is already reporting on the state of play in the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy every three months on the European Union Affairs Committee. Finally, this happened at the 117th meeting of the said Committee, on 24 February 2017, for the whole of 2016, and if we remember all of these past meetings, it was rarely said that there was any civility, more or less the opposite. I believe that we were quite agreed that the previous financial perspective was, as well as that it was running extremely well. So we believe that the reporting system needs to be maintained as it has been so far, that reporting for every quarter is often enough and that this period is sufficient. The government also reports on this and further reporting, we believe that it would not bring new data or information, as already contained in the reports that the National Assembly receives every three months by the SVRK. European cohesion policy is indisputably one of the most advanced policies that enforces results-oriented and closely linked to good economic governance, to a much greater extent than any other policy at European Union level. As we see from the above data, the results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy are exceptional, positive and deliver the desired results, so in the parliamentary group, although we will not vote on this recommendation, we have not supported this recommendation on the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u95	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, Members, Minister, all of you welcome! Slovenia in 2014-2020 is still, I will say fortunately, a net recipient, which means that we can receive more from the European budget than we have to put into it. In the new financial perspective, we have around €3.2 billion, of which €1.2 billion is allocated to the Eastern region and €0.8 billion to the Western region. More than €1 billion of Cohesion Fund funds are earmarked for the whole of Slovenia. The key to sharing these so-called common cohesion funds is in the hands of ministries, which unfortunately do not take account of the differences in the development of the regions, despite the fact that when we negotiated for European funds, we received an additional EUR 0.5 billion at the expense of the less developed eastern region. While the Western cohesion region is 97% of the European Union's development, the Eastern cohesion region is only 68% of its development. However, if we look within these two cohesion regions, we see that some statistical regions point to an even greater gap in terms of development. We have a central Slovenian region, which is at 116% of the EU's development, while we have regions such as Podravje, Pomurje, Zasavje, Karska, where development is even below 60% on average of the European Union. It is right to point out, however, that regions that do not reach 75% of the European Union average are considered to be less developed regions within the framework of European cohesion policy. In the negotiations for the European funds of the current financial perspective, we have received an additional EUR 0.5 billion at the expense of the less developed eastern region, so it would be even more important, of course, that most of the European money would indeed be devoted to less developed regions, but unfortunately that is not the case. Let us first see how documents were adopted which form the basis for drawing European funds from the 2014-2020 financial perspective. It is right that we know that we have not yet adopted the documents adopted at the beginning of 2014, which are the basis for drawing on European funds. The Partnership Agreement was adopted in the summer and autumn of 2014. When preparing the operational programme, the representatives of the eastern region insisted on two separate operational programmes, but unfortunately the coalition did not want to listen. You insisted on one operational programme, which was prepared at the end of 2014. So it was about one year ago that we could already draw on European funds, but we had only two basic documents prepared. However, all this and, last but not least, later slow action also results in the slow absorption of European funds from the existing financial perspective. Let me remind you that in the years before Slovenia joined the European Union, when it benefited from the EU's financial mechanisms under the so-called pre-accession aid of a total of €22.5 million, it was far more successful than the ten countries that entered the European Union in 2004. After joining the European Union, we have become eligible for European cohesion policy funds. However, during the 2004-2006 programming period and the 2007-2017 programming period, we were no longer so successful in drawing on European funds. Nevertheless, we have been among the best Member States in drawing on European funds. Today, of course, we are talking about the financial perspective 2014-2020 and we can say that drawing from this perspective to this day is negligible. How badly we are prepared to draw on EU funds is also shown by the fact that Slovenia, which was once among the most successful new members in drawing on funds, did not receive accreditation for European funds until after two years of implementation of the 2014-2020 financial framework. The Audit Authority of the RS Office for Budgetary Control cannot confirm to the European Commission that in Slovenia we have a functioning system for drawing up European funds, which is why our country has not been allowed to send claims for reimbursements to Brussels during this time from the national budget for EU projects, which means that the situation of reimbursements is so minimal and that the drawback of European funds is not actually a glass. According to the latest data available to us, by the end of 2016 there had been almost €42 million in reimbursement, which amounts to just over 1% of what is also available in the European Union budget. Despite plans to absorb $35 million in 2015 and half a billion in 2016. Below you have obviously reduced this plan slightly and put it to 200 million for 2016, but this plan has not even been implemented. European funds are extremely important to us, for Slovenia. This is the only developmental means that we have at our disposal, so to speak. Many projects have been implemented in Slovenia through European funds. If we take a little walk and visit the municipalities in Slovenia, we can see that there is almost no municipality where we would not see a table, that one project was carried out with European funds. Of course, it is so much more worrying that Slovenia is thus lagging behind other net recipients at this time in this area. The Court of Auditors published an audit report on its website in October 2016 entitled The effectiveness and effectiveness of the management body’s information system. The report revised the effectiveness and effectiveness of the information system to support the performance of the tasks of the managing authority in the period from 1. 3. 2012 to 30. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The findings are of course of concern as it has found that the managing authority has not ensured the effective functioning of the information system to support the performance of the tasks of the managing authority. The Court of Auditors concluded that the SVRK for the 2014-2020 programming period did not at all prepare an information system development strategy. In view of the delay in the accreditation of the system of implementation of European cohesion policy, Slovenia has already received a reminder from the European Commission, at least after reporting to RTV Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are wondering how such mistakes could have occurred, and we are also wondering who will be responsible for this and how, in the new financial perspective, the absorption of European funds could be slower than in the previous, despite the fact that we now have significantly more experience in the management of funds and European cohesion policy. European money also leaves behind a research activity that already spends less money on the budget every year. The Agency for Research could obtain up to EUR 20 million for young researchers under the Marie Curie tender from the new European perspective, but did not even send a complaint to Brussels. In the context of the application, two project proposals should be drawn up where a call for young researchers and a call for researchers wishing to go abroad should be presented. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask why Slovenia does not run for such funds if we know that there is less funding for researchers every year and how the state will compensate for the loss of such funds. For all of this, we have made recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in the 2014-2020 programming period: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government and the RS Government for Development and the European Cohesion Policy to accelerate withdrawals from the 2014-2020 programming perspective and, within three months of its adoption, to report to the National Assembly on measures taken to improve the absorption of funds from the 2014-2020 programming perspective. We in the National Assembly do receive drawing reports, but we wanted concrete measures to improve this pumping in the National Assembly within three months. Second recommendation: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government and Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy to maximize the funding allocated to the Republic of Slovenia from the programming perspective 2014-2020. The word maximum means that to be precise, it fully draws on all the resources available to us. And third recommendation: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy that the funds allocated to Slovenia be distributed fairly from the European budget between the Eastern and Western cohesion regions. It is fair to think, of course, of course, that the difference in development between regions is taken into account and that European funds are primarily intended to reduce these differences. Unfortunately, that's not the case with us. The recommendations we made in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we support and follow them, and we will also be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u97	Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, your colleagues and you, colleagues and colleagues! At the meeting of the home working body, we voted against the proposal for a recommendation from the SDS Group of Members and Members of the SDS with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The applicant points out that the absorption of cohesion funds in the period 2014 to 2020 has not been satisfactory for the performance indicators to be poor. That's not true. Commissioner for Regional Development notes that Slovenia is among the best Member States in drawing on cohesion funds. Since January 2015, when the Action Plan was signed, the Republic of Slovenia has made the greatest progress between all Member States. It moved from 19th place in 2014 to 4th place in 2015 as it managed to obtain all possible funds from the European Union budget. It should be noted, however, that cohesion policy is linked to seven-year programmes and therefore the monitoring of the use in a given year does not provide a comprehensive picture of performance over a multi-annual period. The implementation of cohesion policy could not start in time in 2014, as the necessary documents with the European Commission were not agreed until the end of this year. In July 2015, the first European Cohesion Policy support decision was issued and 171 decisions on support totalling EUR 857 million were issued by the end of this January. This represents as much as 30% of the available resources agreed by Slovenia in the Operational Programme for the Implementation of European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020. Thus, despite the poor situation at the beginning of the current government's mandate, Slovenia has taken a major step forward. And we believe that will be the case in the future. Therefore, we also believe that further reporting to the National Assembly, as recommended by the SDS Group, would not provide new information, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Development and European Cohesion Policy Service has been regularly reporting every three months to the competent committee of the National Assembly on the implementation of cohesion policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u99	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. As usual, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer, Mr Ljub Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, everyone else is present, everyone's welcome! The Minister-General has given two facts that how we are successful in drawing on European funds is the subject of data and real facts. But she said only two facts and no real facts. That's how I traced it from her introductory debate. It has been stated that up to now 186 decisions have been issued and that we still have 7 years of time. I'd say we're relying on seven more years of time, a little bit like that. That's not a fact for me, and that's not an argument for me. That's, I'd say, some time preconceived so over the thumb. But it is true that seven years is something else — or, well, it is now, six years and nine months, if we are, I would say, more accurate. And why am I so worried about this timeline? I must say that the representatives of the positions in your presentations also mix the two financial perspectives. You mix, read your views again, because the two financial perspectives overlap. We are talking about the financial perspective 2014-2020, and you are explaining the financial perspective 2007-2013 with the extension until 2015, where we came from 19th place to 4th place. That's what you're saying. Look at that. You're mixing two financial perspectives. You are mixing the effectiveness of drawing on funds from the financial perspective 2007-2013 with an extension of up to 2015 for the last three years. The drawdown of the last three years, from 2013 to 2015, reached 45 % of the previous financial perspective. Look at the data. And it is true that these last three years have been extremely successful in drawing on the funds of the previous financial perspective. Here. At the time, Slovenia was successful, but at the time, I'd say, I don't say, the water ran to the throat. And not mix it with a new financial perspective. The fact and figures are, in the first three years, this is 2014, 2015, 2016, reimbursements from European banking assets to Slovenia were 42 million. This is 1 % of the overall financial perspective 2014-2020. In the first three years! These are facts and these are numbers and do not mix this with the previous financial perspective. And why am I worried? Yes, it is true that 186 decisions have been issued. In fact, there were almost no new tenders in 2014/2015. There were some small ones, the main calls for proposals came in 2016. I'm talking about 186. 186 decisions. And as far as we're concerned, let's take a look at the contents themselves. In these 186 projects, some of the biggest projects of state importance, which are also, I would say, quite large amounts with large resources and are tied within the national envelope. Because we know that these are cohesion infrastructure assets that are linked to the national envelope, and here the scope is limited. There is a project within the section of the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway and then railway projects upgrade of the railway line Zidani Most-Celije, modernisation of the Prague station, railway road and also drainage and treatment of waste water in the area of the Ljubljana field aquifer. The value of this last project is a circus of 70 million. These are the biggest projects that have been prepared with all the permits and procedures and so on that they have come, I would say, as the first in the realisation and in the framework. However, I am not as optimistic as one of the main actors in the preparation of projects and, of course, in the implementation of these projects are local communities, they are regional development agencies and also part of the economy. Local communities have mainly carried out major projects in the previous financial perspective. Of course, there are also plans and a certain part of the projects prepared for this new financial perspective, but the local communities do not have many projects in store. In the previous financial perspective – because we know that it is also a risk because certain procedures can delay and delay certain deadlines – there were these projects, I would say, in stock. If one project did not go into effect, another, or more, was prepared. In this financial perspective, it is not because municipalities do not have ready-to-deposit projects due to financial resources and, of course, the municipalities already have difficulties in providing their own share, co-financing country, their own resources. That's a limit, too. Even regional development agencies, although paper volumes are greater than those available for actual resources, but when projects with a building permit are to be put on the table, this is not the main project today. He doesn't have any building permits on his desk today. They're gone. They're gone. So the risk here is much higher than it was in the previous financial perspective. So I'm not that optimistic. Because these numbers aren't small. I did a background check or, I'd say, some table on the fund-raising plan. See, in the first three years, we have used 1% of the 3 billion 760 million in terms of total resources from the budget and European work. In the next four years, this is said from 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, in Slovenia – that is to say, my plan – according to the time-table to the difference of 23 have absorbed 54%. It is said that by 2020 we should draw around around 2 billion, with refunds. Are we capable of this? Do we have things ready and so on? 2020 will be very fast. In the last three years, 2021, 2022 and 2023, almost a billion 700. These aren't small numbers. And at all the risks I have highlighted and warned them I believe, I still believe that Slovenia can draw all European funds, but it will have to be moved into higher gear. [[…]] Because time is running out. That's what we're warning you about. And to move to a higher gear, some measures need to be taken. That's all we're suggesting. To take certain measures. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u101	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I have a little less time than the proponents have, but still. I, too, would first, as Mr Kamal said, return a little. The elections were in 2014, the new government stood up and the previous financial perspective 2007-2014 has one plus two rule. This is said to have been possible to draw funds from the European Union by the end of 2016 for projects that had to be implemented, I think, by the end of 2015. At the end of the financial perspective, a number of unfinished projects were indeed predisposed to be completed and then all operations were carried out, so that our Ministry of Finance first ensured that the money was paid to the operators and then also those funds would ensure that they would be reimbursed from the European Union. And there was a lot of work to be done. At this time, because some of us knew that it would be difficult to draw on, we wanted to have ready projects, so-called overcommitment, that were prepared for the reserve already in the previous financial perspective, so that it would be easier to draw on these funds. Finally, it turned out that there was not enough money left for these projects to be implemented in the old financial perspective. The reason was a few years ago when these cohesion projects were originally set up to be built in the field of environmental protection projects, that is, water and sewerage, only primary parts, not secondary ones, and projects were of much lower value. Then, during the preparation of the projects alone, it became clear that certain objectives set by the European Community need to be achieved in order to implement these projects. And it was necessary to include a secondary part, such as the water supply, which, of course, inspired these projects and left less money. Thus, 11 projects have already been allowed in the previous government, a selected contractor and a decision by the Government to start with projects with their own resources which they had to provide. I say, the previous government gave a green light for these projects to start, and every municipality that signed with the contractor was under threat of a lawsuit if the project did not continue, and then we had a lot of meetings and emergency committee meetings, that somehow in this financial perspective we also provided these new governments with the Government's decision that these projects, which were already formally launched, would be given priority in the new financial perspective. Which was the only logical thing. Here I must commend the Minister for her support at that time, and the entire management body, together with the mediation body, this is what the Ministry of the Environment and Space has called for these projects to go on. It was necessary to adopt a regulation with the managing authority and to amend the regulation with the intermediate body, since new drawing rules in this financial perspective were some new facts to be provided. The problem was caused by environmental permits. And also with the assistance of the Minister, the intermediate body adopted this Regulation and this gave a green light to enable these projects to be included under the criteria practically from an old financial perspective and to be implemented immediately in the new financial perspective. It is fortunate that these projects have started, which are now being implemented, that the pumping was practically immediately with these projects prepared. It is true, however, that European funds have been drawn up, a great deal of this funding from projects already implemented in the previous mandate, and it was necessary to draw on them in order to draw on these funds within the mandate of this Government. That's right. I asked myself, also because I was trying to get these environmental projects involved, which have already been started, and they are being implemented. I also asked around and promised to follow up on these projects. That these projects are now underway. At the beginning, there were some delays in payments because the Ministry of Finance had to provide funds for payment to operators. The municipality must pay, pay, and I think that the committee has said that close to 200 million of these funds have already been made available. It is true, however, that there was no accreditation to be able to recover these funds from the European Union. I hope that these procedures will now take place, because the state has to lay down this money. That this will also come back and that these projects will take place normally. However, the intermediate body has a lot of work to do, it has to monitor these projects, monitor them according to the rules of the new financial perspective. And here I think it creaks, and I would only warn that in the end there would not be a problem when there were checks, controls to ensure the right procedures, that in the end we would not have any problems of returning funds, so that not all costs would be recognised. But they have problems, I think, with the Ministry of Humans, with experience, with expertise, it's hard to get operatives like that to be a part of it. And indirectly, the congregations have problems because they do not know how to behave in the field. And here I see the problem. But I can't tell this ministry that things aren't running in the area that I'm familiar with. However, I agree with the recommendation. There's nothing wrong with boasting every three months that you're doing well. If it doesn't work, then it's a problem, but if it does, then it's automatic. I'd be happy to ask you questions if you knew the answer to that. However, I am concerned about the means of so-called smart specialisation, because cohesion funds are supposed to be equalising through the development of differences. In this financial perspective, we have little resources for the development of regions, 10% of what was in the previous financial perspective, which was shared by municipalities at the level of development agencies. Now there's no such thing. I also appealed to the development agency that this Regional Development Agency should also take control of these cohesion projects, which are Mediterranean, and they have nothing. We have one congregation that runs the investment, and she's worried, she needs to provide the staff. In smaller municipalities, there is a bigger problem and I think these projects could be managed by regional development agencies. However, I agree that, if only possible, the operational programme is being amended, as these 11 projects have practically spent three quarters of all resources in this area. And it is not right that very little money remains for projects that are to be prepared in this financial perspective, because there are still many areas in Slovenia that do not have basic municipal infrastructure. We know that waste no longer falls within this financial perspective, but if 280 000 citizens drink reputable drinking water, and we boast about how rich we are with water, we should – this is basically – provide safe drinking water for all the inhabitants. From a health point of view, I also think that this is a very good investment. Not to mention the waste water disposal and treatment programme, where we promised the European Union that we would allow all the waste water to be discharged into the groundwater by a certain time. There's a lot to do. The problem was the regulation. It is said that the regulation corrects that state resources or European funds should also be available to municipalities for cleaning plants of 500 population units forward. Now there was a limit of 2,000. And I think it would be right for the state to try to provide more resources for these environmental projects, because, on average, the municipality cannot build this from an integrated budget. There will be no more contributions as they used to be. I appeal to the Ministry to try, if possible, to provide more resources from smart specialisation for environmental projects. If you can, of course. Because so-called soft projects do not know what concrete results they have in terms of rural development differences. It is true that municipalities should provide better conditions for the development of the economy, which they provide with water supply, cleaning facilities and transport infrastructure, that this potential here, if directly given to certain companies, I fear that certain companies will only be prolonged by agony, and eventually in a few years, companies will go bankrupt and we have thrown money away. Maybe for a lot of companies it would be better if before it was over that healthy cores build up ahead and start new ones. So my appeal would go this way to get the operational program fixed, if possible. I've got one more thing to worry about. As soon as these cohesion projects came to an end when Europe put a condition, it was said that 50,000 people, one operator, one price. That's how we got the mayors, and on that condition, we've set it up. We do know, however, that we have such an orderly arrangement that the municipal councils confirm the price in each municipality individually, that the municipality manages the system, that we have, say, one cohesion project of three operators. And how do we meet these conditions now? Because if the municipal council disagrees, there is now a difference that the inhabitants of one part of the project will have to cover the costs of another part. If this is one water source, I would also understand if it is more water resources, which in some way are connected only to involve another source if there is a leakage, but I doubt that this will go through anywhere in the Constitutional Court or in the European Court of Justice, because it is only about providing because citizens or citizens are paying for certain services. This kind of solidarity won't hold. But okay, I'm not home here. This will be handled by others. I would also point out that all depreciation has to be charged through the network. We know that we have a rough settlement in a village that is several miles away, that we also have a scattered settlement, and that bringing each such water is a very high cost. Already municipal contributions to join, say, the sewers in some municipalities amounted to EUR 5,000 per household. With the construction of these projects, the value of this network will increase enormously, as this will be the new municipal infrastructure, depreciation will also be very high. However, if we now add up all depreciations of waste management, water supply and waste water treatment, there is also an operational programme where the country has determined where sewage can be built and where small sewage treatment plants can be built, it is sometimes unacceptable, because the cost to population units or households is so high that it will be difficult to build, and then all users will be burdened with depreciation over the network. I'll tell you that the bills will be over 100 euros per household if we charge this. This is what the European Union requires. And if we look at water supply now that these projects are being implemented, people are asking what the price is going to be if we join. If someone has a farmer's pension of 300 euros, it will be difficult to pay 150 euros for the utility post. And by law he must join the water supply — if he has a permanent residence, that is the law — if he does not pay and if he does not pay, he will be turned off by the utilities, the controller. And he won't have any water. And if we have a dispersed settlement, let's say half of them shut down, then in the system, because there's too little flow, because we also provide fire water, the water is standing for a week and it becomes objectionable. We're dealing with this problem. This is a technical problem, but I think that because we build such systems with European funds, we all need to know at least roughly. What if people don't get involved in the end? But if they do, what if they can't pay? Thus, problems will arise at the end of this financial perspective or when these projects are completed, but we know that the congregation or the investor must provide certain goals. These goals, however, are for individual congregations to join so many households. Therefore, I think, given the value of the project that we know, it would be good for the Ministry of the Environment and Space, through its services and beyond, through the municipalities and managers, to do some simulation, and then what will be the price. Because if this does not work out, then I suggest that the Ministry, in amending this operational programme, also try to agree that maybe these criteria would not be the same or that all depreciations would not necessarily be charged to users. Because the problem can also arise when everything is built, depreciation or networking is used only to build a communal infrastructure that will no longer be required by law. I've done quite a bit now, too, but it's right, because these projects are a lot to be aware of earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u103	Mr. Marko Ferluga has the word to prepare for the mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mrs. Susana Nice Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State! I absolutely agree that there is a need to talk about the use of European funds and that there is also a need for a response. Of course, the opposition has a vision, and I think it's a success story. I'll tell you why and how. The response to this pumping of European funds cannot be only, I will say, narrowly in view of one year but, if you allow me, you have to look through all these perspectives and what has happened before and after. We know it's a six-year period. To have a clear and clear discussion of the facts, first of all, it is necessary to state the situation of this government in the area of drawing on these European funds. I see here one of the seven problems that have been. That is, the fact is that we were among the worst in drawing on European funds is said to have been 19th since 28. Secondly, we did not have any prepared programming documents, which means a partnership agreement and an operational programme. Thirdly, Slovenia did not have a set up draw system for the period 2014-2020. Fourthly, Slovenia did not have the normative framework necessary to draw on funds from this new perspective. This already shows that the situation was far from pink, and it also threatened to lose hundreds of millions. Then what did we find out? The very instability of the system of drawing European funds in Slovenia. Why am I saying this? We had a change of institutions, but if I just give you some who were responsible for implementation, but this was one with another, but one was not, namely, the Regional Development Agency, the RS Public Agency for Regional Development, the Slovenian Government Service for Structural Policy and Regional Development, the Slovenian Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, the Ministry of Economy, the RS Office for Development, it is said. Furthermore, the last and seventh problems were that the leaders were changing, and also the staff, clearly. And all of this clearly led to the fact that the pumping was not set up as it should have been. During the time of this government, ministers and teams, some changes have been made and the facts are the following. From 19th place Slovenia came to fourth place in the success of drawing. Slovenia [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Four. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll get to that, too. Slovenia is said to be among the eight countries of the European Union that have had the opportunity to draw on all possible European policy funds. In 2014, the net budget surplus was 633 million. Slovenia has also reached a net surplus of 446 million in 2015, and if we add up to 5% of the retained funds that will take place in 2015, we will reach 651 million, which is the largest since we have been in the European Union. These are the facts. Slovenia paid in 2014 for projects co-financing European cohesion policy funds 834 million. Furthermore, in 2015 Slovenia co-financed European policy funds of 916 million. Both results have been the best since Slovenia received European funds. An agreement and a partnership agreement was established with the European Commission in November 2014 and an operational programme for 2014-2020 was also established. If we continue, in 2015 and 2016 the prepared guidelines for the implementation of cohesion policy, further, 2015 for the first time by a decree of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an operational programme implementation plan and was completed five times by September 2016. In July 2015, the first European cohesion policy support decision was issued. To date, 180 decisions have been taken to support the amount of 867. If I take it back for a while. 45% of the funds from the old financial perspective, and this from 2013, have been exhausted. It was agreed, and most importantly, with the European Commission, a partnership agreement and an operational programme, a regulatory framework for drawing on funds was laid down and 876 million decisions of support were issued. And as one such case, the implementation system has been accredited. It is said that something has been done in this European cohesion policy within the mandate of this government, but far from everything being done, I believe it is one of the better stories. Now, when we speak statistically also, what was the drawing data 2017-2013. Most of the funds have been paid in the last 10 years in 2015, and this is for 916 million. We speak for programmes in the period 2017-2013. We have come to fourth place with this, so this must be taken into account. All this has been done in this mandate. In particular, the State of 31 December 2016, which appropriations have been allocated. Funds have been allocated for the decision on support, namely projects, programmes and calls for proposals of 841 million, representing 28% of the available resources. I am already saying this for the period 2014-2020. Next. The contractual binding of EUR 768 million, representing 26 % of the available resources. Next. The funds from the state budget amounted to 117 million, representing 4% of the available resources, and the reimbursements from the EU amount to 4%. So that's what was done. However, the specific data for the 2014-2020 programming period are as follows. 178 decisions have been issued in support of an amount of 870 million, which represents 30% of all available resources, so you can't speak, or that the new perspective is poorly drawn up, we say we are already at a third of the funds. Why was this specifically done? 54 public calls worth 225 million for the Ministry of Sport and MGRT, but these are research and development issues, economic programmes. Next. 21 programmes, from which or already tendering will be worth 145 million. This is in the field of work with the unemployed, with trainees and with young people. 66 projects with a total value of 446 million, of course the largest part for Gruškovje-Drazenci, and 9 environmental projects for drinking water, what Mr Lach mentioned earlier, are said to be being implemented and the Roma community is also involved. Further, 37 local development strategies, over 24 million and here are various local elements. If we're talking about the fact that it wasn't done enough or that it was too crowded, here's the facts, the data speaks. I say that whoever wants to look at the negative will look at the negative, but who sees that this is a positive story, and that we have learned something good from this story, and that we are taking good steps for the future, and that the funds will also be spent as needed. I think we can just give the hat down to our minister and the ministry to do well, and keep this work going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u105	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, once again, you are assessing the work of the Government during this period, and we are talking about two different financial perspectives for drawing on European funds. And it's true that these two financial perspectives have overlapped and pumping in the last three years, as I said before, has been successful, and that is undoubtedly true. But to be successful, a number of measures were taken in 2013. The pressure of the last three years has been, I'd say, big, real, and there was a lot of pretending that it was pumped. But this is the financial perspective 2007-2013 with an extension until 2015, and today we are talking about the new financial perspective 2014-2020. And the fact that it was also said earlier because I stated that Slovenia had already received a reminder from the European Commission that this was not true, on 9 December 2016, RTV and STA summarised that Slovenia had received a reminder from the European Commission. And this day the government also accredited the system for implementing the European Cohesion Policy for a new financial perspective and sent it to the European Commission. Why didn't the government do this until December 9, 2016? This has been said after three years since the start of the new financial perspective. I don't know all the reasons, but it took a long time. However, I believe that it is also at European work, because it is also intended to be quite different from the previous financial perspective, because they are now intended for less infrastructure and more for so-called soft content. By 9 December 2016, Slovenia was unable to submit any claim for reimbursement. Not now to talk about success, how we were successful for the first three years. We can only talk about three numbers. 186 projects were published, the green light was turned on for starters, which together amounted to slightly less than 900 million, in short, that this financial perspective also began physically. Not now, however, talk about performance and mix those funds from the previous financial perspective 2014/2015. Not to confuse this into a new financial perspective. These are facts, and these are realities. By the end of 2016, 42 million European funds had come into our state budget. That's a fact. They didn't show up anymore. This data was provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy. If more resources have come, correct me. That's what they are. It is also true that the plans of the previous government and the current ones were higher. Take an example for the economy, that's what we call companies. For 2016, it was planned to hold 115 million calls to promote the competitiveness of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia. In 2016, for 115 million. There's supposed to be 15 million of them. I don't know if this information is accurate. Were there more of them? Let me fix it if there's more. I don't think there were any. But the plan was 115 million. But the realisation was 15 million. But now we're not even talking about payback, I'm not talking about payback, but I'm talking about calls themselves, because actually for entrepreneurship in the tender in the first three years, it wasn't at all or it was very minimal. We see here, 10% of the planned, of the planned. 10% of the planned. These are the data from practice, from realisation. Very correct and fair, the Minister said that there are always risks in drawing. This risk from the previous financial perspective will also be borne by the state budget. Inadequacies in the previous financial perspective were identified for 136 million, of which the main part was somehow covered, an additional 32 million were opened. Of these 32 million, 17 million will be inexhaustible, whether companies have gone bankrupt, failed, and so on and, of course, other reasons. This will be the cost of the budget. That's a real burden. There's nothing you can do. I know. No one is to blame, but look, the budget, this will have to be put in the budget. I do not condemn anyone, but I just want to say that there will be risks in the new financial perspective. And these risks are going to be even higher now, because projects are much smaller. Because all the major projects that are now under this quota are already 870 million. But now small projects will come and then, of course, in the end, when we hurry, we'll pump it all out, because now it's soft content projects. [[…]] As an operating man, I would say, from the profession, if we invested in infrastructure before, we got this infrastructure. Now that we're investing in soft content, we're only going to spend the rest now, if I say, on these soft content, on my thumb, if I estimate, two billion. To soft content. And I believe they're necessary. So that not in that haste just before the end when the financial perspective runs out, we will only publish calls that will not have the added value of doing so in time. [[…]] That's all we're warning you about. We would like to point out that certain measures must be taken now, less than seven years before the expiry, so that something like this will not actually happen. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u107	The word is given by the representative of the Government of the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects, cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u108	President, thank you for your word. This is the first time I've heard from you. I'll be back later. I think it might still be right to say a few reactions in the beginning, because now we have a little ball left, and on the right who's right. And in the very opening remarks I have had, I have said very well that cohesion policy is indeed a useful material for literally diverse interpretations. What are we mixing? An old perspective, a new perspective. And let me just illustrate what it's like to come in the middle. Because this happened to me, it happened to this government, and to some government in front of us. Let me illustrate. When you have one rifle and two targets, maybe even three, you can't shoot everyone at once. So you've got to [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, yeah, okay, that's yeah, if you have matches. [[…]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. This one's cute, but I can find another case. [[…]] But you have to set priorities, let's be honest. And of course we had the opportunity to let everyone out of our hands, to deal with 2014’2020, but I don’t know what we’d be talking about now. Because I think, for Slovenia, what was crucial was that we pumped those funds. And that was the key priority that took away my days and nights. And good, does anyone like it now, what it was for old or new, but I just can't create 24 hours – not me, not my colleagues, not my coworkers, not my co-workers through the intermediate organs, 48 of them can't create them. And these are some facts. A new financial perspective. Yeah, 2014. What did I get on the table? Again, let's be honest. Half of the previous one that should have been completed long ago and, on the other hand, there was no document for the new financial perspective. They were drafts that were basically the ones I didn't like either. We had the opportunity to tear everything down and wait another year and a half to start negotiations again. We found that really doesn't make sense. Three governments have already negotiated what was not yet completed when we started. And it made sense to finish this and we finished and in the short, short two-month fights we came up with two key documents. But it was at the end of 2014. And, of course, no system has yet been established. In fact, we were working on it in 2015, but still, let's be honest. 2015, see. We actually pumped a billion of them back then. Most of it. And again, 48 hours doesn't exist. That's why I don't think it's right for us to go left, right. Let's take a fair look on both sides. We've got one team all over the place, and this team is working as hard as they can. And yes, he's been working on full gas and that gas a lot since we got here. I have to say, people don't complain, although sometimes they're not too happy when they get their orders back to work for the weekend. Maybe that's it in the beginning. Now 2014-2020, comparisons with other Member States. I heard that Slovenia received a reminder. Slovenia has received no warning, I can assure you that. On December 9th, however, the three Commissioners, because the pumping is going badly in all European countries, have found that the European Parliament has received a warning to all countries, to all 28 equal texts, see, let us do something about the system's accreditations. Yes, it was an accident that more or less the same day or two days later we were able to accredit the system. But once again, it's not the story of a month, and you write something. Accreditation of the system means preparing documents, some over a thousand pages, which actually summarize the whole system, which must then work. And here the Commission also had some problems, because the guidelines that should come in 2013/2014 were coming in 2016 and some are not yet. This shared management is indeed shared in this case. What surprises me is that you find that we're worse than the others, because I hear the opposite. By the end of last year, 2016, almost half of the systems had not been accredited and the Commissioners had written to all countries. In fact, we do not know exactly where we are because, as you know, at the end of the previous programming period, it was relatively possible to monitor the whole because reports were practically published monthly and, of course, you could make a comparison between Member States. It's not like that yet. Why? Because, in fact, the story is lagging behind everywhere. Is this now the fault, or is this a shared guilt? The commission must have really complicated the system, which is what we're all stressing at all of our meetings. In the previous programming period, there were guidelines, these were regulations and instructions from the Commission, on a thousand 700 pages, now we are over 4,000, and we are not yet finished. All of this is known somewhere. But let's not be pessimistic. There's actually work to be done here. And what I can say is, we're doing it. Perhaps another thing highlighted by Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka, but what was done is the division of the east, the west. I'm sorry I don't have the data for today right now. But I do have information on those support decisions that were issued by the end of last year. There is a current relationship when we look at all three funds, that the Eastern Cohesion Region is 435 million and another 220 000 euros in grants, because we are currently talking about grants and the Western Cohesion Region is 253 million. Here I must say that even when we are walking around talking to local communities and with representatives of the Eastern, Western cohesion region, everyone is coming, one and the other, with diametric data. So I hear in the west that we're giving everything to the east, I hear we're putting everything in the west. But that's what he's holding. This relationship may change slightly in the meantime when major transactions are made, and when decisions are made. That's possible, but not very much. Why? Because we have those final things exactly defined. We are in the East — the West cannot be broken. We can't. One more thing. This concerns reporting and, in essence, the proposaler's recommendations that we prepare measures within three months. We report to the government three months, on the one hand in the form of a report, which is then also dealt with by the EU Affairs Committee, and the other part is measures, which we have previously called an action plan. And at the government's meeting, when we discussed the report for the end of the year, I proposed – and the government also confirmed it, and I think that is also in the government's decision – that we combine both reports. Why? Because I want us to report identically to both institutions, both the Government and the National Assembly. And, in fact, in the next report, there will be measures. Now that's all. Change of operational programme. She was exposed several times. We have, I'll say, luck. Those who are more involved in cohesion policy know that it is really possible to change the operational programme or open it only on the basis of some evaluation. The happiness we have is that, in the form of a technical correction, we have received an additional €56 million, which in itself triggers the possibility of opening an operational programme. And we would now like to bring into this small hole a rather broad story, which I believe will be good not only for local communities, not only for parts where we will try to devote as much of these resources to those parts that the regions have recognised as key projects, but will also be good for Slovenia. And in this part there will be relatively less soft content. Nevertheless, let's split up, we have three funds, and one is the one that's really meant for soft content, it's a social fund. And that's what we have for 700 million euros. That is to say, everything else, and the rest of the amount of up to three billion is dedicated to a fund for regional development and cohesion, where we can mostly invest in the so-called infrastructure in a very broad sense of the word. Even when we are talking about changing the operational programme, we need to be aware of what we have ahead of us. We have limitations. If you know the structure of the operational programme, the basis lays down the path set out in the 2020 strategy set by the European Union and to which all Member States must gravity. From this heading, all Member States have 11 identical thematic objectives and we must strive to do so within these objectives. When you look at the Regional Development Fund, this was essentially pointed out by Mr Lah, no, we cannot put research and development into the environment. Why? Because the requirement, once again, is the same for all Member States, it is said that these are the things that cannot be negotiated, according to regional development, need to be focused on the first four – 80% – in Western Slovenia, for example, the whole package must be on only the first four thematic objectives. So you're infinitely limited to what you can even suggest. And in this context, we are now trying to do a lot of things, and we have already presented our first idea to both regions, the Eastern and the Western. The region hasn't been satisfied yet. Now we've got another one. And next week, I believe we'll reach an agreement. The key measure I see is not to improve, but I think the story came at the right time.It is in the best interests of all of us to try to change this operational programme – for me, this is the most important story of this year – to bring to life. [[…]] Maybe so much to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u109	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u110	Dear Minister, thank you very much for these additional explanations. No one's judging you that we understand each other. We are just talking about strategies, working methods, approaches and measures to be successful until the end of this other financial perspective. So that's the point. I believe that when these two financial perspectives overlapped 2014/2015, this was a madhouse with you. I believe you. And, of course, such an excessive amount of work also has consequences. It's real and it's life. I also understand that the Court of Auditors, at the end of 2015, has already found that you do not actually have a new information system for the new financial perspective – you have already upgraded the existing ISARR in ISARR2, which I believe should be operational by the end of 2018 for a previous financial perspective. Otherwise, I do not know whether the new information system for the new financial perspective is already in place. This is a new information system called e-MA. In short, financial resources are now being invested in both information systems. Good, because the funds aren't excessive, either, for the last two years in ISARR 190 thousand, in the new e-MA in two years 332 thousand. I'm just wondering, is the new financial perspective still working on the old information system or is it already working on the new e-MA? However, we may not have this information yet, in one of the following responses, please explain whether this is working now. Second. The risk of these new projects, which I have also pointed out, is to the fact that they provide their own shares. In response to the lack of an invitation to tender for research activity last year, it is stated that they assessed that no quality and competitive application could be made in relation to limited human resources and unplanned national co-financing resources at that time. This is said to be true, even the state budget does not follow all those needs of open calls in the European field so that we can follow them immediately. So the risk of providing projects in this financial perspective is much higher than it was in the previous one, where I did not say, in stock of these projects, and if one was not prepared, the other chose. And on this call it is possible to obtain up to 20 million funds, to run. Of course, there is also a need to ensure its own share. And in this case, the provision of own share was already a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u111	Ms Alenka Smerkolj, Minister without a staff member responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, again has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u112	I'd still respond to this right away. This last story, research activity. Here we really responded because we asked our colleagues at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to help us, given that we want a common response from the Government. Of course, it is a centralised programme, to which we as the SVRK have neither access nor sight nor we can talk about it. However, given that the first priority axis is intended for research and development, it might be here to tell or perhaps to illustrate how the pumping actually takes place. You know that at the end of 2015 we were able to adopt a smart specialisation strategy, and this was not easy. Why? Because for the first time we have tried and finally succeeded, perhaps a little through compressed teeth, to bring together the economy, academics and research institutions. Because if we really want to move on, we have to work together. And for the first time in early 2016, we went to a joint invitation to tender. This joint invitation to tender was published by the MIZH and the MGRT for EUR 55 million. The first for those technological cycles from 1 to 6 or from 3 to 6 and the second for those who are from 6 to 9 is those who were already on the market. For the first time, we have somehow given everyone the priorities that are actually set in the smart specialisation strategy, an insight into how funding can be provided, and this is important. But what happens. The invitation to tender was out in January 2016; at the end of 2016 we actually came up with one and a half million drawing from this title. Why? Because first of all it's a call, then you have external evaluators, of course things are pulling out, then you have to sign the co-financing agreement. And here we also have those soft parts, because at the end of the day, researchers from most of this money are paid salaries to do research first. So maybe one more illustration, but this is the part that I can talk about on the subject of research. What you mentioned, however, is unfortunately — except that when I hear something like this, that I may be disappointed, they probably have good enough reasons to do so — I cannot comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u113	Mr Marko Pogačnik now has the floor. Prepare to be Mrs. Susana Lepi Šimenka and Mrs. Vojka Šergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! I am sure that today's topic is the right one, and I am sure that at least in plenary meetings of the National Assembly, we could discuss European funds more than once. I think we have done this several times on the European Union Affairs Committee. I personally believe that the European funds available to us, both for citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for the Slovenian budget and for the sustainability of the public financial system, are very important. And I am sure that we did the right thing in the Slovenian Democratic Party when we requested this today's point, and that our recommendations are also properly written. We merely call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and you, as Minister, to accelerate the absorption of European funds. We know here that, in the European perspective for 2014-2020, we have three billion available, and I sincerely hope that we will be able to make these resources available to us, too, properly pump. Whether pumping is successful or not we can see here that we are playing pingpong between the opposition and the coalition, I would be over certain things that have already been given by the proposer today, and certain explanations given by the minister – I would not repeat, but the numbers seem to me to be saying something else. [[…]] That's what I'm most interested in. I am sure that the numbers we can read in the media are not lying, or at least the government or your competent ministry has never denied them. This means that the revenue to the budget has decreased significantly over the last period by European funds. And I am sure that we have had problems both in 2016 and now in 2017 and that we may then play with apples and pears between the opposition and the coalition, but the revenue in the budget from the European perspective 2014-2017 was by less than 3%. I think at least by the end of November there was a little over 82 million. However, I am interested in what you have then approved projects, as we say, with this number a little over €800 million, if the number is the right number, because it is from the title, say, of certain data available to us, the European consumption of approximately 800 million approved projects, but the inflow to the budget was, I would say, just for a little more than 82. What does that mean, and how much risk is there in that these projects that are approved by you, that you gave, would say, some blank menu for something? Will they be realized or, of course, will they not be realized and what else can we do? I would also like to stop on one point, which had already been raised by the applicant. I think this is a serious matter, especially this flawed IT system. I want to know how far the upgrade of this system must be made. You have already been reminded of this by the Court of Auditors. Above all, this transfer of upgrades from old to new, and since the new system must be, some sources even indicate that there is a high risk that certain errors could occur here and that certain data could not be transferred to the new system at all. Is this thing holding or not? The resources used for the information system have already been spoken, and I am more interested in this efficiency and, of course, what risk this means then. And above all, whether or not this data will be properly transmitted. It has already been highlighted that we are consciously losing millions for research and development. She gave some information or explained it to the minister earlier. I am concerned, for example, about the importance of research and development and that the research agency has not even tried to reach European money. Were any sanctions also withdrawn? We know that there were, for example, 20 million euros in the game that could be absorbed. We know, for example, in the National Assembly, when we adopt a budget when we want to, I don't know, 50, 100 000 euros for a road, for renewal or for education or for a pension fund, says the Government and the Minister of Finance that there is no money, but here we see that, let's say, one research agency that had the opportunity to draw 20 million euros, it didn't try at all. Appreciation that we are the story of success, as we were able to hear from one of the coalition Members, perhaps during this period between 2007 and 2013, that we were the fourth most successful country in drawing on these European funds, but I do not know why in last year Slovenia did not report a single project as an example of good practice to compete for prizes. [[…]] In the past, we know that Slovenia has reported these projects every year as examples of good practices and has also competed for prizes. If my information is correct, in 2010 and 2011 Slovenia came to the finals with examples of good practices with some projects. Last year, however, Slovenia decided not to submit a single project for good practice. Now, have these successful projects been or is there a reason somewhere else? Then I would open another subject, namely, the return of European funds due to irregularities. Here I am interested in how these risks are being reduced by your ministry. For 2016, at least according to the data we have, Slovenia should return around €136 million due to incorrect spending, unfinished projects, some of these funds have already been recovered by Slovenia, about €13.5 million or 17 million will never be recovered. 100 million is that difference. As I read, who are these debtors for the recovery of European funds, I would say that I already find that at least one million because of the company that went bankrupt recently, we will also lose. Then I'm interested in these other things. In what way are these funds, which have been misused, which Slovenia must return to Brussels, of those which have been misused or may have been misused, in what way does recovery occur? That would be the key to my debate. Above all, I think it makes sense today to ask these questions to you, Minister. You probably have enough time to explain these matters to Members and Members. Otherwise, I think that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with reference to today's meeting, we just want to do you good, not take this as an attack on certain parties of the coalition Members, what we are going to do. Today, we did not demand interpretations against the Minister here, but only recommendations. I think it is important for everyone, both for the coalition and for the opposition, that this financial perspective, which is available, derives as much money from European funds in Slovenia as possible. I also appeal to you, Minister, to reduce these bureaucratic obstacles in particular in drawing on European funds, because we have certain contacts with these stakeholders, certain meetings, and we are repeatedly warned that there are sometimes such non-life demands, non-life views that a single paragraph or a single branch may be responsible for the whole project. For some projects, however, we are reminded that they are also listed within almost impossible deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u115	The word is given by the representative of the Government of the Minister without the Ministry responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thanks again for saying that. I'd like to say that I don't take it as an attack. That's what Mr. Žnidar said, as well as Mr. Pogačnik, I don't know if that's how I acted, but I'm actually taking this as an opportunity. Why? Because I think we can talk, and I believe we all have one common interest, both the opposition and the coalition, in doing this story well. At this point, we have a little more responsibility, and it's a little easier for you, but it's no big deal. In fact, I don't take it personally or as an attack. Maybe this first. Then I think more or less three things have been exposed. First of all, as far as income is concerned. Why it is impossible to compare revenue from the year 2014 we realized a billion revenue in the budget, in 2015 we realized 878, in 2016 only 467. [[…]] Why? It's precisely because we had this system anomaly and because we had a completely historical drawback of cohesion funds that will never again be. Because the 4.1 billion we had, and we ultimately used it in two years, is good that we then had the means to save ourselves a gross domestic product and actually to push the economy forward, but we can no longer expect such stories and sums. So maybe just a comment on this subject, but I have to say that I was really glad that we were finally able to make a net positive result for the European Union. As regards reimbursements, corrections, we are preparing a final report for the period 2007-2013, which all Member States on the Commission must submit by 31 December 2007. This year's 3rd year, and there are, of course, open claims. We do not have access to these data directly, but we get them from our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. And on this day, when we asked this morning, what I'm most interested in is an assessment of what we can't recover, and that's €13 million 779 thousand. Now, that's it. I think that this is probably not the amount that would be extremely important for 4.1 billion euros, but it hurts every euro, at least as far as I'm concerned. On the other hand, we need to be aware and I think it is important to stress that, of course, it is not only European cohesion policy that leads to the fact that something has to be recovered, or that we have open claims. This is on all other policies in Europe and, unfortunately, this is also on our budget projects. So, of course, this story is broader and what I am trying to do is to make it as small as possible. But if it means more control, it also means more complicated execution, so finding a balanced way here is just art, but I think we found it. For this reason, we basically changed the co-financing contract, which is actually at the beginning – yes, which raised a lot of dust. Why? Because we have practically changed the contract when any of the beneficiaries in the system receives grants, and we no longer build on the idea. This is indeed the story of two equal partners, but it is in the interest and duty of the State to protect public funds. This is the money we pay all of us taxpayers, and, of course, these funds must be handled in a different, wiser and clearer way. What does this change in the contract mean? When they are made at different levels after reports, negotiations and all, such as, say, a 1% financial correction, the beneficiary must now return it after a new one within a certain period of time. I think that at the end of the deadline of 90 days, if that doesn't happen, we can cancel the co-financing agreement. And yes, it's a difficult thing, but anyway, believe me, it's already helping, because only now that the authorities are getting requests for money back are the beneficiaries much more cautious. Because they're really trying to work in accordance with the rules, so they won't have to get their money back once. And I think this action was very good. So much for coming back. Now, two more questions were raised. One question is where we are headed or who has actually acquired these funds. Today, I said this earlier, it's 186 decisions, the amount is 923 million 224. If I distribute this by fund, there are 377 million in the area of the Social Fund, in the area of the Regional Development Fund 188 million 700 000 euros and in the area of the Cohesion Fund 338 thousand 900 euros. And if I go even further into the poultry sector, only the highest possible, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is currently at EUR 219 million, the Ministry of Infrastructure at EUR 111 million, the Ministry of Environment and Space at EUR 174 million, the MGRT at EUR 107 million and the Ministry of Infrastructure at EUR 181 million. Of course, much more could have gone into the intestines, but I don't think that's the topic of this debate. Let me finish this part with the information system. The story of ISARR, this information system, has a very long beard. It started in 2001, and this was a system that was not even dedicated to cohesion policy. And in all those years, he was upgraded. The system is weak. But after fifteen years, of course, nothing can be changed overnight, so we upgraded it and also received some recommendations from the Court of Auditors on this subject. I must say, that report was a very welcome reading to me. Maybe someone doesn't believe this, but then I took some measures very quickly. But the fact is, we decided that it would be a waste of public money if we invested in a system that we were going to shut down in one year. It's like driving to a service car you know you're gonna have for the next 20 years in the garage. So, we have endured, and what was crucial and what we can prove is that, because the information system has been weak, all these years since 2001, no beneficiary has received less funds or been injured, and that is what is essential. However, the key story recommended that we had — this was already a very technical thing — due to adjustments on the last decimal, a change in cents or then the amounts did not go together. This thing is now solved and in the new information system we no longer use the fleet system, but the decimal system. But really, it's a story to yourself. Is the system already in place? Yeah, in one piece, and that's in this integration part, it's already in production. You know, we have basically three information systems that have to be absolutely recognized between us, up to a millimeter. There are two at the Ministry of Finance, the MFERAC system, which you all know, is also an e-CA system, which is also designed to monitor European cohesion policy, and the e-MA, which is on our side. And this integration part — essentially the part that has been in development for the longest time — works, is in production and works. What we have now on the table, however, is that we are working and adding additional functionality slowly to e-cohesion. I believe that by summer we will have these basic stories completely under the roof and by the end of the year then the things we really want. We have defined them on what we really need, what we need and what is urgent is not critical of the system, and what would be nice is that we have the right majority of those reports, that we really make the system user-friendly. I believe this final story will be concluded this year. So I believe that at that time we will also be able to definitively exclude this upgraded ISARR, which we use to obtain system accreditation, because we have an accredited system, because if we did not have it, there would be no refund from Brussels. So much for the information system. Now I think I've exhausted the darkness for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u117	Replica, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u118	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to thank you for these answers. But maybe you forgot to answer just one question, I'd ask you one more time. Transfer of this data from the old to the new system. Is there really a great systemic risk of certain errors? Since we are already in the process of upgrading this system, it has been reported in the media that the invitation to tender you published was likely prepared for the already selected tenderer. How would we comment on that? I think it was a relatively short deadline. You issued an invitation to tender for the upgrade of the e-MA information system on Monday, and the deadline for the application was Friday until 10 a.m. That seems to me, I would say, so a little unusual for a public procurement application and for an information system. I'd like your comment here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u119	So again, the Minister without a department, responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smercolj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you, President. It's best if I respond immediately. As far as data transmission is concerned, this is the integration part that I was talking about, and that is essentially where the key data are transferred. And actually, to tell you the truth, I've been most worried about this part, but so far, we haven't found any problems with the production we have. And that's what I think is crucial. If anything comes because we are now adding new functionality, first the test scenarios are prepared and already in the test scenarios it is sometimes found that there is something else to fix on e-CA what needs to be corrected for us, but before anything goes into production, these things go away. But it's a perfectly normal thing. So any additional functionality goes through this story and the scenarios are, according to the new one, also prepared so that each functionality is completely verified completely by all scenarios, and this is, believe me, a huge difference from what we had before. Now it's just a public order. Indeed, the public procurement had a short period of time, but all market operators have been informed for a long time that we are preparing this. So they actually had some interest, and some didn't have to participate. And all I can say is that either by accident or by accident — I misspoke. The thing wasn't ready for anyone. If I could choose, I would like some more important company, but we also know that in large, more important companies – I have to say that in December, when I had quite a few headaches on this topic, I had conversations with various major Slovenian providers. This system is very complex and very complex. So that even those who went to interviews and I believe that there were no audit requests, too, there were no requirements for anything, because simply during this time period when the system had to be set up, there were probably few companies that were able to do so. [[…]] But once again, I can definitely say that the invitation to tender was not prepared for only someone to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u121	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor now. Prepare to be Mrs. Vojka Shergan and Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Hello again! I must also say in the introduction that I think that it has been very appropriate, that we have made these recommendations and that the debate is now, I think, very correct. Our purpose is indeed what you yourself, Your Honourable Minister, have highlighted. We want Europe's funds to be 100 per cent exhausted from the current financial perspective. And maybe we don't have as much fresh information as the Members of the Coalition do, and then we take advantage of all the parliamentary options that we are given, so that we can get more information and then we have a more comprehensive picture. Last but not least, we know that, as previously said in the position itself, Slovenia is very unevenly developed. And these funds are special, I will say, for the less developed part, for the part that is somehow below 75% of the European average, which belongs to less developed areas, is all the more important. When I move in the field and see, say, the renovation of buildings, all that was done through the old financial perspective in these smaller municipalities, I have to say that the movements are huge. And we can truly be proud that we have also drawn on these funds, and as you yourself have mentioned, this is also one of the reasons that we actually had such economic growth in 2014 and then in 2015. We know that there were local elections, and the mayors were still fully committed to doing as much as possible, but because it doesn't matter, the network of everything ultimately led to this result that the funds were exhausted. We really want it to be similar in this financial perspective, with one small difference, that it would be even less – as you said now, somewhere 13.7 million is those funds that are not actually going to be recovered, we would like to have a zero here. And if we start now, I'll say, preventively, about these things to talk, to prepare, to expose, I don't think there's any reason for it not to be maximized. However, in view of these reports that you are sending to the National Assembly when we look at this information, we cannot say that the picture is so perfect. However, if we come from the very beginning of this financial perspective period, from the beginning of 2014 – we know that it has not been possible to draw up the documents because they were not prepared, it is clear to us all, but still, a period already running – and 2014, 2015, 2016, we are now in 2017. So it's been over three years now. And when we actually look at that final amount -- I'm talking about refunds when we get the money back from the European budget -- we're here at 1%. And that's what I find disturbing. Yes, because an opposition member earlier said, "Yes, we have a third of the resources". Yeah, we don't have any drawbacks yet. We have essentially so much allocated resources, somehow agreed on which projects they will be for, but of course the whole process is still to turn this bike around, much longer. We know that in the meantime the Slovenian budget will also suffer at the expense of this, because some funds must be paid out of the budget first. Only after this is really over will we get the money back. And here we would like a slightly higher percentage depending on the period, because we're following through this information that you're providing to us, but it seems to us that this number could be significantly different. As a result, we also estimate that pumping is not satisfactory. We cannot simply satisfy ourselves with this because it could be significantly better. I am extremely pleased that this large, key project, this 63 million, is part of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway. It is necessary, I drive every day after one of these parts and I am very happy to monitor progress and construction almost daily. I know that the work is in line with the timeline, and it is excellent that we also have such projects within this financial perspective. Of course, it would be nice if there could be more of these projects. But unfortunately, we know that, however, for infrastructure, not as much resources can be allocated as they were in the past. I've had a few questions prepared about this information system. In most cases, I have received answers, but nevertheless, Madam Minister, I am now interested in this new information system or new information system on the SVRK side and not least the Ministry of Finance. This isn't some information system that's new from now on. Still, these information systems have been around for about two years, I'll say, in the introduction, but they still don't work. And I want to know – I understand that this is a very big project, that it takes time for them not to be able to do things overnight – but whether it really takes enough time to actually introduce one such new information system. We're already talking about the upgrade, e-MA, of this new system of yours. However, as you yourself mentioned, this ISARR2 upgrade will not actually be closed until the end of 2017. If I understand correctly, this means that the whole transfer and transition to the new system will not be completed until the end of this year. This is now all together an extremely long time and I really want to know why it takes so long. Were there, I don't know, any special problems? But anyway, somehow you made sure that there were no errors in the data transfer itself. I really want it to be like this. Maybe just one more question. 13.7 million are these euros, for which the Ministry of Finance estimates that we will not be able to recover them. I would like to know on what basis you are assessing that this complementary change in co-financing contracts will change so much. Nevertheless, it seems to me that we are looking at a percentage, that this amount is somehow not large, but on the other hand it is 13 million, and when we know what else we can do with these 13 million, that is a big deal. The problem is that it goes to taxpayers at the end, and of course we want it to be at the end of zero. Is there any other mechanism, but, of course, assuming that there will not be so many bureaucratic obstacles that Mother already has? We know that controls are already taking place on several levels and on the side of your ministry and on the side, I will say, and, last but not least, the RS Budget Supervisory Office has the possibility of monitoring. What kind of guards are you actually going to introduce here, but, as you said yourself, will you not be able to bring this whole process together even more? Because we sometimes hear that one is the demands of the European Commission of Brussels, and the other is ours, which in some ways do us no good, but things make things even more complicated. Are there even possibilities for improvement within these procedures? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague! First of all, I will comment on the fact that this proposal for a recommendation, which the applicant explained or explained in the first part, was quite considerable – even on your part, given that we were aware that we had strongly rejected it, I must say that it was very – very strongly argued. And if not the other, look, at 20 points, you mentioned some arguments that we couldn't agree with because they were mislisted, and you insisted. For example, you explained that we are talking about the 2014-2020 perspective, which we very well understood, but you also stated in point 1 that Slovenia was no longer as successful at drawing on funds as it was at the time of the accession aid. In fact, I could now point to 20 more points where you had claims that did not. I am very pleased that you have turned the discussion into a debate. Which I think is useful, because in some way in the other part of both the coalition and the opposition we are also asking constructive questions to ministers, which I think will really have a positive impact on those who listen to us and on those who will apply for individual projects. Because I believe that, despite the Ministry's efforts to get public invitations out in time, the implementation of European policy will be successful, good, good, good for users as well, but there are many questions and dilemmas in every period in every perspective about how to do this in order to be user-friendly. And in this part, I very much agree, and I myself have gladly listened to some of your questions and your colleagues and the Minister's arrangements. However, if I touch a little bit on the content that we have discussed today, I would say that I am also advocating that the eastern cohesion region of those 60% of the funds, given that it is less developed, will receive it. That the end of the 2020 perspective can be said that this percentage of 60 : 40 has somehow been balanced and that funds and projects have also been distributed in this way. In fact, in a way, I am also discussing myself in this direction, and I will also advocate this in all the debates to maintain that Eastern cohesion region retains this percentage, 60%. Of course, everyone who listens to us or prepares projects in this place needs to know that projects need to be of quality. Even if this option is given to them, the Eastern cohesion region, which I come from – projects must be well prepared to be successful on the call. I say, in fact, it's all about people in the end. Everyone must feel that those who report on projects and who carry out them must indeed have the responsibility and the attitude towards funds which, after all, are also taxpayers when the state co-finances these European funds and provides money in the budget. As regards the low inflow of funds, I think that when we discussed the budget 2017/2018 in the National Assembly, it was pointed out that the inflow of European funds would be lower in this period. It was because of the accelerated pumping in 2014/2015 due to the old perspective, where 45% was drawn, that we somehow knew consciously or included the Ministry of Finance in the budget. And I know that I have been very careful when we saw in the budget this reduction in European funds or the influx of these funds. But if we're still being a little honest, I remember because you've been exposing this fear of drawing forward, and I actually understand you as the opposition very well, why you might have more fear than we do. [[…]] Why? I'll tell you why. Because you also had extraordinary meetings of the European Affairs Committee in 2012 – and I must say that I was not in politics at the time, but I was very closely following the drawing of European funds because, even then, the area where I acted touched the users on the ground – and I remember that you had a lot of controversy. I remember that you had great dilemmas and you discussed how Slovenia would not draw funds, fear and I don't know some power stemmed from those conclusions and those of your conclusions. Some Members of Parliament were very much involved at the time. And I believe you're right now, aren't you, mate? [[…]] Yeah, because I remember that and somehow it's in my memory. And that is why when I came to Parliament when you pushed 11 projects and pushed them into a new perspective – in fact, you had our support at the time, if I recall, and we were somehow positive about it. But today, when we say that it is too low now, there will be too little resources for the next perspective, but I will tell you something, because of these 11 projects, you need to know that there will also be fewer calls for new projects now. [[…]] And I'll tell you something else. Projects are more for the period 2014-2020, not too small. Too many have already been planned and there will be a shortage of resources, including because some of the funds we have dedicated from this perspective. But this also had a positive effect, given that we supported these projects, because the worst would be that in fact some unfinished projects would fall completely, and even because they were for environmental protection and waste water and for water. In short, I understand. But it is right that we do open the debate in such a constructive way and talk about the dilemmas that afflict those who face it in the field. That is why I also support this debate at the final stage at this point and in this direction. But I'm very unhappy when someone sets something up and says what they don't. And then I take it for granted as some kind of attack. I'll be perfectly honest. But in the end, we're talking, and that's good. And it is also right that people hear that all politicians care that all Members care that projects, European projects are working, that things are moving and that they are going in the right direction. I think that just awareness, even on our part, when we are on the ground among our own, helps to make this positive and positive attitude prevail in some way. So that's where I'd end this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I myself agree that today we have a very important point, European cohesion policy. I think it is good for the coalition, for the opposition, but above all it is important and good for the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, I must admit that on some of the questions I have written here, I have already received the answers so that we will not repeat ourselves and waste time. But it is, of course, as my predecessor has said, certainly in the opposition – but of course today's proposaler, Comrade Ljubo, perhaps has a tone of speech about a tone higher than me or you, Madam Minister, or Vojka, but I do not think that the proposer thinks anything wrong with it today. Whoever looked at the point of how it was written and also proposed for this meeting today – I think it is well-intentioned and there is no one in this national assembly of the nineties Members in order to oppose the speeding up of European funds. We also talked a lot today about the previous perspective, 2007-2013. I must admit that I am extremely happy when you take a ride into a municipality other than Ljubljana, Maribor, Novo mesto, Izola or Koper, and I have in mind small municipalities, of course, which are far from these big cities, and when you see a board of projects financed from the European Union hiding behind this board. I think it is extremely important that there is a lot of work to be done for this board, especially that the project in that congregation is also a great incentive for the further development of those places. I think that, of course, to those who have done this, this is also where the mayors are credited, and to all those in the country who have worked hard in the past period, there is also a great deal of credit. [[…]] Concern for all of us in the National Assembly, today we are proposing this point of opposition, and how we are doing this and what stage we are in this new cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. When I spoke about that previous perspective, the European Community was a little different than it is today. At that time, we were still talking about countries that had entered the European Community, and today, unfortunately, I have to say that this is sad, but we are talking about a country that has already left, and about countries that may still be able to resign. That is why I think as a member of this National Assembly it is still extremely important that we are in this perspective – and I think I am wrong – that it may even be the last. But I hope this sentence of mine is completely flawed and I'm in the wrong. I wish it wasn't the last one. That is why the concern of the opposition is also that of all of us in the National Assembly, I have no doubt at all, the distinguished Minister, that you, as well as the Secretary of State, all of us working on your team, are successful. Because this is about the development of Slovenia. As I have already said, I have heard many answers to my questions, so I will not repeat myself. But speaking of such an important area, I think, Madam Minister, you may seem a little too quiet in the area, not to say where you might be better. Even on your team that you have. Comrade Pogačnik spoke about a computer program and proposed Ljubo. Maybe why am I telling you this? [[…]] I often listen to your colleague, who is from the same team, Minister of the Jews, who is also Vice-President of the Government. And since I am on the Committee on Agriculture and Mrs Vojka is on this committee, he has also told us many times how his colleagues, when we talked about the 2014-2020 agricultural programme, work on Friday evening, Saturday Sunday, and I must admit that when I talk to farmers today, let me say that on average 2-3 farms per day stop farming, that we are not as successful as we should be. But now I don't want to compare Minister Jew to you. So that I might doubt you in this place today. There are many concerns here. Someone also talked about something, and now I'm going to have to mention how he worked in one area for three years, and today the results are very poor. That is why I feel so much more important today, and I stand for all that the proposaler, Mr Ljubo, has said that I would like you to tell us where – and I hope that this is not a secret – in which area we might be better off in order to be more successful. And I'd like to open another chapter. Local communities. The municipalities. Government, I must admit that matters with the municipalities are not resolved. Is it also a problem in this area that some congregations do not have the opportunity to think about applying, because, of course, now I will say, the state imposes ever more responsibility on the municipalities? However, speaking of averages, in this mandate many times happened that the mayors were also on this balcony, which, of course, were dissatisfied with the cake that was cut out of the budget 2017/2018 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that when we talk about local communities, they are extremely deserving, or if they are not the most deserving, that today the development of Slovenia is also at this stage in those municipalities that I spoke about earlier. So, Madam Minister, I think this meeting today is positive that all the Members and Members who have spoken about these points have talked about worrying about how to draw as much of these funds as possible. I am concerned about the percentage of the risk, especially the risk that the government or the budget will have to pay back, especially those who have been hidden in the middle, which, of course, have applied for funds, have drawn them back, and then it is likely that companies have gone bankrupt, and today or tomorrow we will have to, but we will have to recover from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the word to prepare Dr. László Göncz. Here you go, Mr. Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Vice President! Since I took over the leadership of the Committee on European Union Affairs with this mandate, I must say that all the discussions have been extremely positive. Today's debate is also not a classic positional opposition. Most of the debates on the European Union Affairs Committee are going in one direction, which is also right. This is also done in foreign policy. And today's debate seems to me to be in place, despite the fact that there are some of us last survivors in this room, regardless of whether we are being accompanied by people across the balcony, who are here today physically, as well as others through television screens. I believe that something has been answered, if not even to all the questions. From the predecessor who led this committee in the previous term and, of course, in some way, has taken this decision to monitor the absorption of European cohesion policy, I have also felt in some way the need to formalise this matter in this mandate and to give this committee the opportunity or the task that we have written down in the tasks of setting up and working bodies of the National Assembly. This is accompanied by the drawing-up of European cohesion policy. Which means that every quarter, every three months, we have carefully followed the full pumping of European cohesion policy, as has already been said today. The Minister has also proved to be extremely cooperative and will always bring a good part of positive energy to this committee, and I must say that when I look at this 2.5-year interval that has taken place – and I will now refer to the agenda item – it seems to me that we have arranged quite a few things because the Committee on European Union Affairs has followed these matters closely, and also because of the opposition, of course, because colleagues Zvona, colleagues of Ljubo and Jože, and of course also coalitions, as well as SVRK and ministers, who have always expressed a willingness to resolve past problems from a previous financial perspective. Today, 11 environmental projects have already been mentioned. We have signed an earlier contract, we have come to the Committee on European Union Affairs – the mother of the ox, what can we do now? And the minister said we'd try and make it work. And we are. Indeed, a good part of the cohesion funds also comes from this financial perspective, but I think that this was one of the very good solutions that we have implemented in this mandate, and here I see this positive role of this monitoring and these debates, which are also being repeated today. And it is right that they are repeating themselves, and I am very glad that we are talking, even about European funds. I remember last year we organised, as every year in the Committee, a festive meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, where we had a presentation of European projects at the end of the previous financial perspective, we also had an exhibition, we also had presentations of some projects. In some ways, we are also trying to bring Europe closer to the public. Given that some tectonic movements are taking place at European Union level, the European Union is still too far away from people. Although the monument of the European Union is practically every 212 municipalities in Slovenia, it is from the previous financial perspective. And that's why we mix pears and apples, always. And it is right that we do this, because apples in European cohesion policy simply need to be mixed because – okay, let's leave the situation at large, that in two years we have absorbed 45% of the funds from the previous financial perspective when there was a total frenzy at the SVR plus through the ministries, at the same time an operational programme plus a partnership agreement plus a smart specialisation strategy plus negotiations with the European Commission plus negotiations with the regions. Here I think there's been a lot of work done by SVRK, it's true that you're a huge team, I believe you're having very little sleep, and that's what's happening to us. However, I could conclude that, even though we are in the coalition's parliamentary groups, or would rather speak for the SMC, we have rejected this recommendation, which, once again, we believe is very well-intentioned in fact this recommendation you made already exists. [[…]] Every three months, the Minister comes to report to the committee, and the debate takes place. And if I may focus a little more on the fact that the Minister has asked us to invite the Commissioner for Regional Development for the last time, we will also do so within the Committee, because I personally think it is useful for the National Assembly and the work of the Committee to hear how it is for the other Member States. It is said that all Member States are poorly drawn from this financial perspective. Probably, according to the returns, yeah. I have to agree with my colleagues here. However, the decisions and contracts that were issued worth almost a billion — 923 million was the last issue, was it not the minister? – 180 projects, here I think this is some kind of commitment to these governments that these funds will come into the budget. By 2023 we have time, of course, but I think that this government or SVRK will make every effort to draw back as much as possible. I wrote down something else: the status of the net recipient of Slovenia was mentioned. I'm a little worried about whether we're going to be a net receiver. We know that Britain will launch this famous 50th Article on the exit from the European Union in one week. And, of course, their resources will no longer be in the European budget. Of course, projections are also being made, and the President of the National Assembly has asked the Government to report on this. So I'm worried, in fact, if we're gonna stay a net receiver. Well, it's about this soft content. We all see that the European Commission is also changing its focus in some way. In the previous financial perspective, a whole bunch of resources went into infrastructure. A whole bunch of projects have been built. There was a great deal going on in the energy renovation of buildings. Even now, there will be something going on in this financial perspective, but not so much. It went a lot into the roads. There will also be something, but I think it is right that the focus should change and that, as I mentioned earlier, Europe is getting closer to people. And with these soft contents, we'll do exactly that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Let's get the mags ready. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go, Mr. Gönch.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased with this tone of debate today, as you yourself have found, Madam Minister, that we are all consensual in order to draw as much from the European funds as possible. I stress this in particular because, otherwise, you mentioned little about the joke that both the coalition and the opposition are in favour of this, even we are in favour of this, so that we are all, indeed, consensual about this issue. But above all, I would like to highlight two things in the introductions, namely that the general view of the drawdown of Slovenia has been successful, and this needs to be clearly stressed. Of course, the problems were such and different, which have been exposed and mentioned today, but generally it is successful. At the same time, what is less successful is that unfortunately, in the context of overall regional development, all the provinces or all the areas did not reach levels that could bring them closer to the Slovenian average. Of course that's a problem. And since there has been a lot of substantive talk, I will point out only one thing, and here I will focus mainly on your response to the recommendation. You state that the European Commission did not agree to the inclusion of a specific priority investment to support the development regions in the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore the operational programme does not contain a specific priority investment that would enable the instrument to be implemented in the way it was intended to be incorporated into the Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. That's exactly the problem. So if I read this correctly and understand it correctly, then probably the implementation of the Harmonised Regional Development Act will not be as comprehensive as it might be, but this is only one part of the problem, and I am particularly interested in that strategic part of the issue, which has been repeatedly raised today, at least indirectly, directly perhaps slightly less. You state that this approach will be particularly relevant in the context of the post-2020 event, and clear signals that the European cohesion policy funds in the global and those to be addressed to the Republic of Slovenia will be smaller or, perhaps even, stressed substantially, significantly smaller than in the current programming period. In particular, from this point of view, I am asking whether we have so far failed to establish these more coherent regional developments. What will this mean in this context from the point of view of our breakdown and the difficulty of drawing on funds, especially in areas in regions where fragmentation is, for example, such as in Pomura? So, we are already seeing certain handicaps from this point of view and my question is only aimed at finding out what mechanisms we can avoid, despite all the positive trends and despite the effects of the law that we will be discussing tomorrow, that is, the development support of Pomurje, is still unfortunately preserving the relative inequality in the development of Slovenian provinces. In short, in this context that I have just mentioned, even your findings that there has been this breakthrough, how do you assess and how do you plan to solve such problems? But since there will undoubtedly be problems again, water can go down your throat very quickly. I conclude that just pointing to the problem is not enough, and we should all be working together now to look for possible solutions for a period when we may not receive any funds from European funds at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc, then in turn in the final part are the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Initially, I apologize for coming to the debate later, because I had other obligations, so perhaps some of this will happen again. I would, however, begin where, in fact, colleague Podkorjek with the same name as I have, has ended, and this is when this debate seems constructive and almost in agreement between the opposition and the position, even more so than it was on the committee where the efforts of the applicants to adopt the recommendations have been made, despite everything greater than today. Nevertheless, it seems to me from the discussion by my colleague Podkórska that the proposaler wants to persist despite all the recommendations, even though I am convinced that we have received the answers to all the questions and that the answers point to the fact that the recommendation is completely inadequate to the point that something should be done even faster than we have worked so far, and that, of course, more should be reported, as the ministry has already reported. In this argument, figures are given which, even after reporting to the media, would prove that this is the case. I would first focus on the numbers that the Minister transmitted in her reply. I believe these numbers a little bit more than the ones in the media, although of course I don't say they're not relevant, because we haven't actually heard about which numbers from the media are speaking. And once again, what we said on one European Union Affairs Committee earlier, when the last report covering the whole of 2016 was presented, and it was presented in the form of a allocation of funds at the level, at that time, of good 841 million, I now hear that even 912, which represents even 30% of the available funds, we are speaking of the EU, of course, the work that the contractual tied funds amounted to 768 million, which is 26%, that payments from the state budget amounted to 117 million, representing 4%, and that the reimbursements amounted to a good 42 000, representing 1%. First of all, I have to say that 28% and 30% of the available funds are considered to be in the case of contractually tied funds and 26% do not seem so small if we take into account all that we have heard on the Committee and today that they have been available or, say, the initial conditions at the time of the government's appearance and the conditions of goods that this government received at the end of 2014. At the beginning of 2014, it was faced with a breakthrough between the previous financial perspective and the new, but of course it was necessary – and here touching the ISARR information system – to achieve an even better conclusion of the old perspective and, of course, to accredit the new one we accredited in December 2016. And the fact that we are on the drawback dynamics, which the recommendation suggests and, of course, I will not back it up again, as I did on the Committee.The European Commission's report notes that drawing dynamics in the Republic of Slovenia are similar to those in all other Member States. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Smercolj. Minister, I'm sorry. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman. It's okay. But it's nice to hear. Basically, first, a few more answers to questions, and then I'd come to one conclusion. Next, I think there have been two more questions, perhaps even three, what claim is still intended for our information system. Yeah, it's a cancer wound, and now, after all the stories we've set up, I believe we're on our way to a good system. What took you so long? We were first working on the integration of the system, and the fact is that the European Commission was late with the requirements, with actually the key ones. We received them at the end of December 2014 and then we went on a public contract as soon as at least the basic gabarits of these requirements were set and transmitted as guidelines. However, it is also true that the European Commission is only the end of 2016, as it just said, has submitted the final requirements required of Member States for e-cohesion. And these definitely have a huge impact on the functionality of the information system alone. It was therefore impossible to complete the system in 2016. It must also be understood that the functionality of the system itself is not only linked to the European Commission's demands, but also to ours, these are our priorities, but also to our wishes. I've talked about this a little bit before. And I have to say very openly here that even at SVRK we had too much desire for what we actually had ahead of us, so we took it very seriously that we made priorities, what is what is crucial, what is important, but not critical to e-cohesion itself and the Commission's demands, and what we would like to have in the future. And what's crucial, and when ISARR2 is even supposed to shut down, it's going to end this year in the first half of the year. And all that's going to happen is upgrades, I'm going to say, extra functionality that will affect this system, but they're going to bring this story closer, or I'm not going to say. [[…]] My big Ah, I'll say. [[…]] My great wish is – here I have been challenged by the Member, where our weak points are, that is certainly one of them, simplifications are a weak point not only of our system, but of the whole of Europe, we are talking about this enormously. The current Commissioner has even set up a high-level group dealing with simplifications, and it is already clear that after two years of operation of this group we cannot expect much. Therefore, it is my great desire and also my promise that now that we are preparing each specific functionality specification that we are developing, we will also look absolutely at whether anything can be simplified in the process. The worst thing is, you're doing the system on your current processes, because if you don't make one move then, that's actually the only time you can make things easier. So now we're wondering. I must say, we have a very gruesome debate every Friday at 10:30, when this story is happening. But when we go through these critical ones, when we do go also further into functionality, those that are important to us and also to users, it is also the time when I believe we will find some simplifications because I believe that they can be done. Although I have to say, my colleagues are convincing me that I'm a little utopian here. But by now, I've been utopian a lot, and in the end, at least some of it got out. You'd touch the brexit. Brexit will have an absolute impact on European cohesion policy. We don't know how yet, but the important thing is that we're ready for our options. What we know is that the United Kingdom is a net wager in the European budget on an annual basis of EUR 10 billion, and, of course, when it has to be paid in 2020, we will see what we are going to do. We know what the initial negotiating positions of the whole of Europe are. Of course, they will have to pay the bill what the negotiations will bring for the next two years, we will see. But the bottom line for the future and for the new multiannual financial framework is this: whether countries that are even more developed than we are will have to pay even more to replace what the United Kingdom pays. This would mean, say, for Germany 16%, for the Netherlands 14% more. You probably imagine the reaction of these countries when it comes to the table. Of course, this is communicated by finance ministers, but at one of these meetings, I was in the role I had last summer. And the other story is that there's going to be a reduction in expenditure. And it is very clear here that European cohesion policy is also very much at stake. The priorities are different in Europe at this point. The ideas of all net, net paying countries are that the integration of migrants must be taken care of, that borders must be taken care of, that other things must be taken care of. And that's why the battle for us to talk in the future about amounts that are comparable to those we have on the table is bloody. Or this battle has already begun. Maybe it's just not the topic of today, but I'm also doing a lot of work because this summer, I think, I have 5 or 6 meetings at the ministerial level because we're already talking about this a lot. [[…]] Now, let me finish this in a way. I think it's best if I tell you what my personal and our expectations are this year, that I share those thoughts with you. And again, there are some where you're looking, if there's anything that can be improved, I'll tell you where to go, but the key things. First, very close to the date when we have to submit a final report to the European Commission, and I will talk again about the years 2007-2013. Huge administrations are on the subject, next Monday we have a monitoring committee and next week, 31. 3. we send as the other Member States a report to Brussels. What will this report mean? Once it has been confirmed by some other European Commission inspections, we will then be entitled to receive this amount, which we are now fighting for, for the remaining 5%, 205 million euros, to Slovenia. We want this to happen somewhere by the first half of next year, but it's probably going to be in the second. In any event, the Commission's guarantee to all Member States that will be able to submit the report within the deadline is that this amount will arrive in Slovenia in 2018. This is, of course, an important priority. That was the first thing. The other thing is to complete the development, the whole information system, that then actually the story can work, yes, we will also try to improve something. In particular, it is my desire to listen to the users. We now have intermediate bodies involved, and I must say that these discussions are sometimes very turbulent, but they are very good, as is today's debate, because more people know more. It's harder to do this, but if you listen and hear, you can do something good. What is important, however, is that we need to accelerate not only the approval of projects – we are actually doing very well if, with such dynamics as we have started, we continue to believe that by 2020 we will reach 100% of the approvals, at least my wish is that we will only implement these projects in the last three years. So far, I have to say, we're on the right track here. In any event, their implementation should also be accelerated. And that's the other thing when we study where we're stuck with, where we need to work even more actively. We have a list, I don't want to point out here, but I can't say there's no problem, but I can't say that everything runs beautifully through the departments because it doesn't. But we also talk about these stories openly and demand. So I have a few not-so-nice meetings, but I believe they bring results. What's the key story? I mentioned it earlier, but I want to say with it that the key measure to improve this implementation is absolutely that we are going to change the operational programme. We're in a hurry here, because when you open the program, you can't actually demand a refund in the meantime. That means we're going to have an anomaly again this year, and that's why I'm asking you in advance, don't ask me every three months where the money is now, because it won't be. 31. 3. we will get the last tide and then we will have a closed story for at least half a year, if not longer. So, in fact, in these last months, even for the sake of conclusion, even the same as all countries, that is why we want to hunt this same time in order to launch an operational programme. [[…]] And here I have to say that the Ministry of Finance has gone very well, because it will allow us to be able, even though we have a change in the operational programme on the table, to have no green light for this part of the change, so that we will also be able to approve those projects that will be approved from this work, to issue decisions on support and also draw if the projects are so far prepared. With this, I will go back to where Mr Göncz has ended and I will start, and I think it is right to say something again. Arrangements for regional development. In the previous perspective – even today, I think Mr Horvat has pointed out, but I think there are two other colleagues, I do not remember them now, Member – regions with a special investment of EUR 600 million. And since I first spoke here at this session today, I have said that we have 30% of the funds in these two funds less, and I must say that I was very happy when the Commission is absolutely against us to have, and we know we will not have, but here we have found some solution where the commission has finally nodded, and here we have focused on the fact that we absolutely have a law on coherent regional development in Slovenia. [[…]] This was adopted in 2011, when it has not yet been programmed for this period, and this provides for an instrument which is an instrument called an agreement for the development of the regions and this instrument provides for territorial dialogue. First, some development programme, then actually territorial dialogue, which means that the projects that the regions agree on with the country come both from below and from above. That's the key difference. In 2017 and 2018, the fact that the budget does not have the resources to establish and additionally finance, or at least not very much, territorial or regional development. It is therefore a great desire to find a way in cohesion policy. And we did. We are essentially, when you look, but, yes, I won't, it doesn't matter, because I've already said this on the European Union Affairs Committee – it's no secret that I've set myself up to try to help the regions in a different way, not just directly, but with a very clear vision to actually get to a similar amount as they had in the previous programming period, of course reduced by what we got anyway, because there are no funds. I believe that's what we've come up with so far. The regions are not yet aware of this. We asked, together with Minister Restovalski, who is responsible for coherent regional development, in fact we asked that the councils of cohesion regions, eastern and western, meet next week on Tuesday. There we will also present what this last proposal is. And, of course, the agreement for the development of the regions is absolutely linked to the amendment of the operational programme, so these two documents, although they will be two different documents, will have to go hand in hand with the Government. And I believe we'll come to an agreement. Even with all 12 statistical regions, not just both east and west. Although no one can talk about quotas that have been, say, a given fact, but can, in fact, have an idea, we take into account a development hazard index. I believe that the regions themselves will recognise this, and I believe that in the end we will come to what we all want, and that it will be about the same percentage or even a little higher if we compare it with the previous one, for this local development. This is also important to me, on the one hand, because my colleagues in the Government know that I am quite a well-known advocate for regional development. I may be quieter, but I'm speaking quite loudly here. So here I absolutely believe that Slovenia must take care of regional development. And this agreement for the development of the regions really sees as an instrument, which is now a first attempt, it has birth problems, but which will be the only long-term dialogue between the state level and the regions. Finally, at NUTS 3 level also with local communities, because this is what Slovenia needs. If I go back to earlier, whether the next cohesion will be or will not be. I believe that, but that the funds will probably be even lower, and that is why we need a systemic approach that will connect not only resources – because the law clearly states that there is no European cohesion policy written, written virtually all the resources that are possible in this area, says it is integrated, is also possible, on the one hand, partly co-financing from other programmes, mainly all kinds of possible financial resources will have to be used and we will have to be innovative there, and there will be a long-term need to lead this dialogue with Slovenian integration. However, as long as European cohesion policy remains, of course, the combination of both resources will be important. And that's what we all have to get used to. But here I have to say I'm positive, because at least as far as I'm concerned, I think I've achieved what I've done. For the time being, of course, all this must now be communicated, obtained agreement and moved on as soon as possible. Now, just the last final words on my part. There was a really big debate today. I am pleased that we have done it, I think that the core of the recommendations we have actually accepted, even though we will not formally accept it. Why? I don't know, you may have overheared, but as soon as we discussed the 2016 report at the government, I also suggested that the part that binds to the action plan is the action, we add it to this report and share it with you Members, because I don't know why we would hide anything. If we have any problems, we have problems. I, I must say, yes, I've had you here in some way for allies since 2014, so here we are, trying to solve things together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I can say that I am extremely pleased with today's constructive and useful debate. Last but not least, I am pleased that we were able to separate two financial perspectives today with coalition colleagues, which, of course, overlap in the work of three years. I am also very glad that we have been brought into line here and that we are all in control of this area now. If I start right at the end, it's a recommendation. In particular, our recommendation is, I would say, an initiative, an incentive or a vision that today we need to watch what will happen for the next seven years. I am very pleased, Madam Minister, that you have accepted our recommendation in such a constructive manner and have taken it as an action plan, which you are actually implementing in the form of these reports, which Members of Parliament receive on the table. Perhaps this action plan should be added a plan of action or realization for all these years in the future by 2023, because then it will be easier to monitor implementation, it will be easier to assess performance and, at the same time, find out whether we are on the safe side of drawing, whether we will draw all or not, in short, we have this comparison. So there may be a lack of such a plan in this segment, under which comparisons of these quarterly reports can then be made, of course, that you will be giving. In addition to these European funds, there will probably be some additional European calls, which our country, of course, will not have to, but will also explicitly want to respond to these calls. I am talking about calls for unused cohesion funds from other countries. This will be an additional invitation to tender. We know that we also have major infrastructure projects in Slovenia; second track, third development axis. I am not talking about the second track of these 35 million, which our country has already applied for, this is within these means, within the framework of the current national envelope for infrastructure projects, but I am talking about the additional unused cohesion funds of the countries of the European Union. These will be additional invitations to tender. It is likely that it is now actually expected for the second track, even the third development axis does not have a closed financial structure, and we will also look into that project for any other calls that will, of course, be made in addition to these calls. In short, here is the task and, of course, the scope of work is considerable, certainly thanks to all, the Minister also to you during that period of those two years, which was most critical, and of course also to the other actors, who have already taken very strict measures in 2012 to successfully build on the financial perspective 2007-2013 by the end of 2015. The pressure was back then, I'd say, abnormal. During the week, ministers with secretaries coordinated with all four ministries, watched the reality, exchanged prepared projects for the unprepared and so on. Short cut, pressure. And all this action was extraordinary. And as a result, the results of the withdrawals of the previous financial perspective are so good. The objective is that this financial perspective is as well absorbed as it was the previous one. That's our key purpose. It is not intended to criticise you today or anything, but it is the intention that we can effectively rule out the use of European funds in the end. To conclude, that's all I'd say. Seven years is a long time, on the other hand, if this time is filled with plenty of work, with a lot of activity, but this is a very short time. But we still have a lot of work to do. Our common desire is to draw on the funds normally, rightly, with as few risks as possible and, of course, within this period. Then we will be able to see in 2023 that we were successful and prepared for all of this in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. You've got your word. On the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss it. We haven't wasted time yet. Good. Please sign up, this also applies to the proposer and the government. I'm asking you to sign up. [[advertising from the hall]] Green, yeah. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you once again, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps there is a segment on which this meeting is boring, and I think that the more we talk about this topic, the more we see this point, the more we see together, and, of course, the biggest government party, of course, the minister, the more we think things are not as pink in the future as we sometimes think that one point, especially if it is proposed by the biggest opposition party, is unnecessary. At the largest coalition party we were commended today, so mid-term that we were constructive that we did not attack the Minister, that we talked in a calm tone, but I think that these praises may be welcome in some segment, but when we talk about these recommendations, which the Minister also mentioned in the closing speech, that she agrees with them, it is very difficult to understand that we do not want to talk about these recommendations or reject them when they talk about the two segments. This is, of course, to speed up the use of European funds, and we have already talked about this a lot today, and to transfer it to the National Assembly and report it after 3 months. Yesterday we celebrated the world's Earth Day. Again, I hope that when this perspective is exhausted, when we reach the end of the perspective, all the congregations, or all citizens and citizens, will have sound drinking water, I am afraid that it will happen to us that they will not have it yet. Of course, the Minister fully agrees that we are living in a uncertain Europe today. She herself said what brexit means for this community before 28, now 27 members. And, of course, once this starts to be the biggest, I think it will be even more hot in the European Community. So today's debate in the National Assembly is quite on the table, and I don't think it should sound like it's some sort of whim of the opposition, of course, to the government or to today's minister. I would like to – as I mentioned earlier in several municipalities, there are many in Slovenia, there are two flags up there, and there are two flags up there, and there is no SDS or LDS or SMC, and there will never be. But behind these boards that I mentioned earlier, and I'm still mentioning them, there's a lot of development. And when we talk today about this perspective that we've been missing for three years, it's been gone for three years, and it's very hard to press the button today, so it'll be different tomorrow. I also asked the distinguished minister, and one part answered me where the weak points were. As a national constituency, I have repeatedly missed this in this national assembly. Of course, the role of the coalition is that the minister – not now – I do not specifically mean you – defends you. And when we talk about such an important point, how much money we have drawn and how much more money we will draw to live in an uncertain Europe, how many segments we will not be able to influence as Slovenians, we do not want to find the weak points that we have, how we can be better tomorrow. I am pleased today with this debate that we have had, but I am just afraid that we are all hiding something together. Perhaps, theoretically, there will be regular elections next year. It could happen that there will be an election this year. In theory, none of us sitting in the National Assembly today will be here next autumn. And we're going to make excuses, as we say two years ago today, that nothing was ready for someone to get it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Minister Alenka Smercolj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u140	Just for closure on my part. I would like to stress once again that we do not take this as an attack. I have taken this story as an opportunity to say that Slovenia is successful in drawing on European cohesion policy and that I believe it will remain successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I'm closing the 16th item of the agenda. I am also adjourning the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice night!
