ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We continue with the adjourned 33rd meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Special Report in the case of proliferation, money laundering and financing of terrorism – the Farrokhzadeh case and NLB (confidential) case and the Commission's findings on the supervision of intelligence and security services and the proposal for a decision for the National Assembly (public part). Procedural [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] As a proposaler, he wants the word mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u2	Dearly beloved, everyone welcome and welcome to the stolen country of Slovenia! Yesterday we spent several hours talking about how the mechanisms within the banks had been abandoned, it is said within the New Ljubljana Bank, as well as from the Bank of Slovenia to the New Ljubljana Bank, that the things we are talking about could actually have happened a billion clearly laundered Iranian money for the purposes of proliferation and financing of terrorism. We're talking about another part today. If there was a question yesterday, what power does someone have to agree to do a billion dollars in one country, because that's certainly not something a bank chief invented because he slept badly yesterday, but someone made a deal. Just ask yourself how powerful it is that those who have achieved that virtually all control mechanisms, control institutions and law enforcement institutions have failed. Because that's what happened. We have written these findings in the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services in the form of public findings and we can speak about them publicly today and they have been adopted and confirmed in full agreement. What we have found is that after the banking mechanisms were cancelled, the institutions did not function properly until after 19. 11. 2010 Before that, there was only pinkpox between individual institutions and only 24th and 25th. 11. Relevant reports were then given. At that time, everything we're talking about has been going on for almost two years. Next thing. When it comes to the issue of the police itself, it was clear from all the data collected that those operatives who worked on the ground simply did not have all the information on the subject. On the one hand, it can be demonstrated that some of the top figures on this police did not provide relevant information; on the other hand, it can be found that the police are only after 24. 11. In 2010, she had two sets of information, but did not carry out any forecasting procedure. What is particularly interesting is that it ended with a note that it was not about money laundering, in the department of proliferation and terrorism, and without any conclusion or notification to the prosecution. With regard to the Owl, we could find that Owl had correctly collected the information and then 24 of them. 11. mediated ahead. The Bureau for Prevention of Money Laundering itself responded too late or not at all and then responded to a notice from the French Intelligence Service, which came in 26. 3. 2010 Until then, things haven't really moved from a dead point. There is also a question of what happened to all those who should act. The suspension of duty is, in fact, the very definition of corruption under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The owl, as I have already said, at the end of the year, that is to say before the accounts were closed when all of this was still happening, gave the correct information. She sent it to key addresses, including the President of the State, which was then Danilo Türk, President of the Government, Borut Pahor, Finance Minister Križanič, Interior Minister Katarina Kresal, then to the President of the Police, and also to the Foreign Minister and Adviser of the President for this area. Nothing happened. However, it is necessary to know that this was the only comprehensive warning given to anyone, including the numbers involved. All the alarms should be ringing at that. How many similar stories do you think were worth one billion dollars or three quarters of a billion euros in Slovenia at the time of the discovery? Except for you, so far none! So this scale was crucial, and because of this scale, the bells should ring. Interestingly, at all times in this process – details now in the open part of the meeting I cannot explain – documents missing zeros were found, and it was said that it was 700 000 euros and that the school was in fact 700 million. Of course, this resulted in a different treatment and a different conduct of the competent authorities. In this case, you may have noticed for yourself that the executive branch, all the key people, and the representative authority have been informed, if we say so to the President of the State. However, Parliament has been released in its entirety, and this is something we are particularly aware of in the KNOVS. This information is, according to our assessment, essential. In fact, whenever it comes to information, three are usually sent after all protocols: to the President of the State, to the President of the Government and to the President of Parliament. In this case, the President of Parliament, who was then Mr Gantar, was released. We haven't been able to get any explanation in the entire investigation so far. Why Parliament has not been informed. Then there's KNOVS. The KNOVS, however, has in principle the right to control. The KNOVS has been informed in the annual report – and only the annual reports of the KNOVS are being considered; this is to be known about its working methods – with one sentence; before, I have read it literally in closed work. In this sentence, the only annual report ever contained anything in the connection between Iran and proliferation and funding. Without any other information! Then this continued to interfere with everything: from Arabia, to the Balkans, to what I don't know. But it was all one sentence. And by the way, this word link between Iran and money laundering covered less space than on the same side of the same report a report on right-wing extremism, which in Slovenia is on the rise and is taking over some supervision in the Balkans and so on. In short, for the then authorities there was, and for the people who were put at the head of the Owl – at the time, Mr Selan was at the head of the Owl – in view of this report, apparently more important persecution of the so-called right-wing extremism than to deal seriously with the problem of one billion laundered money from the country that was then under the embargo due to suspicion of proliferation, this is the purchase of weapons of mass destruction, according to the Iranian nuclear bomb project at home, and also the purchase of materials that would be useful for the manufacture of chemical weapons. Well, politics is always a matter of values, what you're dealing with: whether it's human security or power. From this report and from this proportion that I have said – it is funny, because this is even on the same side of the report – it is obvious that their authority back then was more important than human security and the rule of law. I'm sure everyone can draw their own conclusions. It is also interesting what we have specifically pointed out in the Commission that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not reacted at all, even though there is a permanent coordination group responsible for monitoring the Islamic country and doing business. In doing so, nothing happened there completely, without explanation, and without any serious reason for doing so. It is also interesting that there was an extremely important and influential anti-corruption commission led by the current Minister, Mr Klemenčič. This committee was given a document by a famous whistleblower. In fact, all the alarms should ring from this document, and the fact is that the document was of such a nature that it was also clear to them that it was an obvious suspicion of a crime. However, the signed protocol, which, by the way, is public between the anti-corruption commission and the police on mutual cooperation and in this case the derogation of matters – even if it were only information, should be waived in an appropriate manner – but because of the obvious suspicion of crime, we should proceed in accordance with the relevant article of the law. None of this happened. The surrender took place in an informal way between representatives who were not at all correct under this Protocol, and the document was later lost to every trace, and the document, as it was handed down, was not in its original form, but was anonymized after their own declaration, so that they did not know who it was. The result was that this was one of the fundamental reasons why it all ended up on a dead end. It is also interesting to act against partner services at all levels. On the one hand, when it came to the Owl, Owl notified a large number, namely 18 partner services, but not those two that should actually be the first: the American and Israeli ones most directly concerned — the suspicion of the purchase of Iranian weapons of mass destruction, suspicion of proliferation and terrorism. Even after she subsequently provided them with information, they were imperfect, in some cases apparently not even real. We were able to see and familiarize ourselves with the information that several times it was claimed that there was no contagion there, which of course is not the truth. Why this has given them incomplete information and, in fact, deceived them, is a very interesting question. Similarly, when it came to Germany, the police did not ask Interpol Germany for cooperation, although at the level of remittances, by frequency, Germany was at the very top of its operations through the New Ljubljana Bank. There is also one appropriate explanation why this happened, and we were unable to obtain it. In all of this, we point out that there should be consistent and unconditional compliance with the relevant protocols in the institutions of persecution and in the cooperation of all law enforcement institutions and bodies in our country. Because if that were the case, all of this could never have happened. In particular, I quote, "When it comes to the conduct of the KPK in contravention of the existing agreement between them and the police, this constitutes a violation of the officially designated operation of the official institutions". There are more of these cases. The whole story ended in the first part without a proper ending. The relevant end would be one; the law enforcement authorities, together with the other institutions, should carry out the whole procedure, determine whether, in cases where and by whom the law had been breached, and whether those responsible would have ended up in court. The elements for that are huge. There was always a question, by the way, as an interesting question, on the committee of all those whom we had heard, without exception, there was one agreement on one point that, given the conduct of Farrokhzadeh and his business through those accounts, all the elements of money laundering were given. [[…]] The only question they were always asking was whether there was an initial crime. Now I leave this judgment to you. It was known, at the time that this point was reached, that the money originated from a country under the embargo — the United Nations because of suspicion of proliferation and terrorism — but again from a bank blacklisted by the Commission of the European Union for financing terrorism, money laundering and proliferation, nothing was done. Even after the proceedings were closed, it ended with one remark by a person who then fell off a ladder and died; even then he was left without a final report from the prosecution. Look, if the police are aware that there's a suspicion that someone stole a 40-year-old moped somewhere, they'll, if nothing else, make a note and report to the D.A. When it comes to a billion, it didn't happen. When it comes to the suspicion of proliferation, it buys weapons of mass destruction because it threatens world peace — this has not happened. When it comes to the suspicion of financing terrorism, and with the obvious cooperation of the secret services of one country, this has not happened. How is that possible?Oh, my God! In so many cases, believe who wants to, but it is probably clear to everyone among us that there are not so many coincidences here. Some have decided that things have taken place in this way, and many have evidently cooperated either with knowingly abandoning their obligation to do so or in other ways. We have talked about all of this in closed sessions, and we have already informed the public. What is essential: in the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, we have already done our duty and we have done our own, with a unanimous decision, everything we have found, all the material collected, all the data we have provided to the competent authorities with the expectation that they will fully investigate the matter, in which cases, because obviously, the law has been broken, who is responsible and these people are brought to justice. Things aren't out of date yet. This is particularly important because there is even some letter that has already been shown by the bank yesterday – since there is no problem there, if nothing else, it is possible to talk about the damage to the bank because someone has just forgiven the payment of costs in certain financial transactions. But even if we let it go when it comes to the issue of obsolescence, the out-of-date hands are actually at least two more years and in most cases even longer. This is said, no matter what, it's essential that we get to know the public about it. When we met the public three months ago, miraculous things moved again from a dead spot. For, no matter what, we live in democracy and people must be aware of their power; the power that individuals have under public control, if properly informed, and only this public guarantee that society is not completely wiped out. Therefore, the story with this kind of information, to which we are particularly reminded, which was biased, which was limited only to a specified circle, must never be repeated again. That is why people need attention when it comes to this story, because under the control of the public and today independent of the media – we have Facebook, we have Twitter, we have other ways of reaching people – such stories simply cannot be repeated. And just that, only the power of an individual, which, ultimately, based on the information he has in the elections, is what guarantees that the state remains democratic. The task of all of us, both those who have done our work – and for that, I thank my colleagues for having done it unanimously – is done either within the framework of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, the Investigations and at all other levels, and I thank all of us; it is the task of all of us to give people the right and the right information.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u3	We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u4	Good day, dear Messengers and Messengers! After yesterday's debate, I have the feeling that there was no intense and very large response to this Iranian story, which made me very angry. Last night, we talked to a group of colleagues and friends about how it is possible for a story like this to be made available through a Slovenian bank for a billion euros in money and still supports a foreign intelligence service representing a country that does not celebrate the most in respect of human rights, how this is not a matter of perhaps not being interested in a wide range of Members, the public and perhaps even the media. And one of the colleagues gave me an interesting explanation, he said: "Look, in this thing, it happened that in all the affairs Slovenia has had, maybe this is the only affair where Slovenia did not actually lose money because this money came from abroad to Slovenia and went on." I said: “Yes, indeed, but in this business someone made an illegal profit.” And if you add that Slovenia has been completely embarrassed externally because it did so during the sanctions against Iran, and if you add that this topic should be of interest to all of us, in order to prevent any such action in the future; yes, if these are not the reasons why Parliament should be full today and why we should all talk about this subject today, then I do not know what it is anymore. Did this world really melt down so much that some things are no longer of interest? Many of us have, or have already, said in this story that it is simply too clear in one direction of seductive events to believe that it is random. Like I said yesterday: I believe one or two things happen by chance. However, I find it difficult to believe that some order of things that lead to exactly one goal; this is that someone, in this case the Iranian Intelligence Service, through the New Ljubljana Bank is peacefully paying their agents around the world, while Slovenian aiders in Slovenia make sure that the supervisory institutions do not act or that this business even makes it possible. I only say things that are public and have also been published in that summary of the Commission's report on the supervision of intelligence and security services, at the end of that text that you could read in the closed part of the session. Let's say one of those interesting information. If we know that this Iranian business started in December 2008, that it lasted the whole year 2009, that millions were running through NLB during the crisis, that it was one of the biggest commissioners and that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering informed the police, say and write, on 19 November 2010 – “extremely fast”! I mean, if the office needs so much time in all other matters that are smaller dimensions, then I really wonder about the effectiveness of this office that we have. I hope that now, under your leadership, this has changed something because, under the previous leadership, these things were literally criminal. The next thing that comes to mind from that report is that on 25 November 2010, this is exactly 6 days after the office informs the police, I would say, the police are effective, the police quickly conclude that there is no suspicion of money laundering. Most likely, if the office were to communicate some information from other offices about how the money was being raised elsewhere, the police might have acted differently. In particular, it surprises the filtering of information that, say, the Bureau has forwarded forward. When, for example, he's 30. Seven. The Bureau for Prevention of Money Laundering received information from NLB in more detail about what was going on with this Iranian business, and when he kept asking the police and Owls, the office was still guilty or somehow protecting the NLB. No, he didn't want the Bureau to expose NLB. This would also be an interesting answer that the director might be able to convey why this happened. If this is a regular or normal practice in other cases that you have, the office, when it tries to obtain additional information on the police or on Owl, does not expose or disclose the bank where this happened. I am really interested in whether this was an exceptional case only in this Iranian business, or whether you have such regular practice in another business. Once again, I'm disgusted and I'm kind of uncomfortable that we have such a country that this thing goes completely past us, that cop who is 25. 11. 2010 found that there was no suspicion of money laundering, was found guilty of corruption in 2013 and fell off the ladder three months later in suspicious circumstances and killed himself. I think this thing is calling in conspiracy theories. If anything, it would be the duty of the police to do this thing, but as far as possible, to explore things, to get to the bottom, and in this way perhaps even some conspiracy theory closes. I didn't hear much of the excitement about this. I didn't feel it. Another matter that is extremely interesting to the police as well. You know that the largest number of remittances went directly to Germany from NLB and that the police were investigating with all the partner police, virtually all over Europe, but not Germany or the German police. I mean, things like that are hard to understand, they're coincidences. If someone's getting into a case and I don't know what country they're asking for, but where the most money went, I don't. Yeah, tell me that's normal! I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u5	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Messengers and Members! I will answer my colleague Tonin's question or when he has put his hope in the current director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office with the words: “I hope that at least now something has changed under your leadership.” The answer is: “Nothing has changed.” And that's what we heard in a closed session by the chairman of the commission of inquiry, Dr. Anget Logar. Because I can't go directly with the data, but I can't. One of the major countries inquired at the Office on this matter whether the person concerned had received any funding. The answer of the Office of that State under which Mr Male would have been signed would have been that he did not hold that this person had received nothing. It later turned out that this person, whom Mr Male said she had received nothing, received several hundred thousand euros. I'm surprised that you're still sitting there because I was sure that after what Dr. Logar said, you would step down in front of Members and Members of Parliament. You have probably seen how amazed the faces were both by the coalition and opposition Members to you after this information was presented. But no self-reflection, no self-criticism, just like it does in our country and it's a practice. I am sure that today – this will be a continuation of the meeting that we had yesterday, only that we discussed yesterday the findings reached by the Commission on Crime Investigation in the Banking System and today by the Commission on Intelligence and Security Services. I'm sure the media will report ten times as much as they did yesterday. But it will still be nothing, because ten times nothing, with the exception of one television, we are nowhere to talk about a meeting that is important to our country, which is important to our credibility, whether we are sweeping things under carpets or talking about these problems and trying to bring the culprits to justice, before the investigating authorities, are not reporting anything. And if we can argue on the basis of Mrs Jelka Godec's findings that the newspaper Mladina received money from overpaid venous resistors, then I really wonder if we will be able to argue in a while too – I am sure that yes – that all of these media, who had been silent and did not report on this issue yesterday, received money from commissions from a few hundred million euros, a billion euros in the largest state bank. A more illustrative example of what media landscape we have in Slovenia, how the media protect the mafia, which rules Slovenia, the government is just a puppet of this mafia, how the media protects this mafia. And how the KNOVS and the Commission of Inquiry by Dr Anjeta Logar are those who are doing the work that the authorities should be carrying out, in particular, within the internal ministry and the Ministry of Justice. And then when we get to the Ministry of Justice and look at who's leading this ministry, it's clear to us why nobody's doing this; because it's hard to investigate themselves. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič and Secretary of State, Mr Darko Stare, are directly involved in the whole story, as the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services has also found. In point 6, the Commission notes the following: “KNOVS surprised the KPK...” – then Mr. Goran Klemenčič and Mr Darko Stare – »... They received a secret whistleblower document from the Bank of Slovenia indicating the suspicion of a crime of money laundering. The KPK concluded that it was not competent, so they handed over the document informally to the police... ” – why not the formal? – »... Prior to this, they organized a document to protect the whistleblower from the Bank of Slovenia... » – Why did anyone need to be protected if he has already forwarded you a document with the head of the Bank of Slovenia and with the signature, name and surname? If you wanted to protect yourself or that he was protected, you would send an anonymous report. And then – “... Furthermore, the allegations of a crime were not forwarded to the police on the basis of the provisions of the CAP, as stipulated by the concluded agreement between the KPK and the MNZ and the police of 1 June 2010, but they submitted the document to the NPU staff to take it to the police and then to the police, where every trace was lost behind it.” Remember how Minister Goran Klemenčič got involved when he said that he had filed a criminal complaint first, then that it was not so that he filed a complaint, and we finally saw that there was nothing. “... The conduct of the KPK, contrary to the existing agreement between the KPK, the MNZ and the police of 1 June, constitutes a violation of the officially designated operation of the official institutions...” Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the KNOVS, we have accepted this unitedly, with all votes in favour. Interestingly, when we talk about these commissions, we wonder where these commissions landed — 40 to 60 percent of them. Since Goran Klemenčič has obviously played an important role here, then I recall the previous mandate, when, I think, the Mandate- volitional Commission was dealing with the property situation of Goran Klemenčič and that there is some part of the property that he cannot explain. Anybody want to ask him about that? Is the ZOPNZ, the Law on Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin only applicable to SDS President Janez Janša? Despite the fact that the property is explained long and hard at the meetings of the Commission and also publicly that it is asked constantly after one and the same misery – here as the gods! Protected, nothing! Are you going to ask him if you're going to ask him? Next thing. I remember, some parties, or one party, here in particular a party of Social Democrats, who had all the reintroductions of power at the time – they had the President of the Government, they had a finance minister, this Prime Minister appointed the Director of the Owl – it is interesting that just a few days before Owl was informed about the matter, Mr Rupnik said to the previous Director: I need to replace you, the pressures are too severe – we now obviously know what the pressures were – we are listening to from the Social Democrats: Let's calm down, let's be constructive, we are all trying to investigate things. How can it be possible for the Social Democrats to investigate matters in 2017 and not when they have been informed of the matter? When Borut Pahor as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was informed of what had happened, he did nothing. Dr. Franz Križanič, then Minister of Finance, went even further. In Tarca, he publicly lied that he had learned from the media about the matter, that he had not been informed of it at all. It's a lie. A proven lie. How will the Social Democrats now engage constructively, when it is evident that you have done everything that this matter does not come to the public, but only to come before what law enforcement authorities? It is a pity that today there is no Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar here – in New York he said: “Who is behind the ban on the atomic bomb, this is a populism,” because he would ask: “Mr. Prime Minister, what then do you call the one who helps produce the atomic bomb?” I really want to know if the Prime Minister is saying that it is the populism who is behind the ban on the atomic bomb, or whether it is merely a mitigation of what is currently coming from Slovenia. These are relevant questions, which unfortunately we do not have an answer to. There are two secretaries of state, one of them is involved, and the third, sitting on the government side, is proven to be still not working, as it should be. These people are hard to talk to. We'd need some to tell us what the procedures are going to be. There will be no procedures, since these commissions have bought a number of elections, a large number of MPs because of this laundered money, which has been put in their pockets by commissions, are also sitting in this National Assembly today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u7	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, we have been discussing the same subject for two days, regardless of whether you have been married or that the authorities that have dealt with it or have given their reports are completely different or have completely different powers and essentially have different tasks. From the point of view of the report itself, I can only say that it is correctly written, but it is more or less clear from the report that there are several holes. Why, I'm not even going to paralyze or find out, but the fact is there are some parts missing in this report. In particular, there are no answers to certain questions. The Commission is not an investigative commission; it cannot question witnesses; it cannot give an opportunity to those who might say something about being asked. Moreover, I am sure and thank God that with this report, she has also concluded this work, at least in the part where the Commission does not have the authority, and this is in particular what we all know that the Law on parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services and the Rules of Procedure themselves do not actually speak in any way of this type of operation and of the work that this Commission has actually done. [[…]] To talk today about how ungrateful this is; far from it! I am even sure that we can all be satisfied that the commission has done quite a good part of the work. But this is what, if you remember what I said yesterday in the first part of an open debate or an open session, that for the first time in history, both the Commission and each other began to connect mainly because they were caught in a trap because they did not have certain powers. Nevertheless, we will support the report, at least I can speak for myself. I believe that the Commission will also work well with the existing parliamentary commission of inquiry. In the end, I'm just going to comment on what my predecessor, colleague Mahnic, was talking about. Lately, he is very much involved in certain statements and various concerns and his thoughts, as it were, easily shared in public space. The Investigative Commission – I apologize, I have a problem – the Commission has actually invited Mr Klemenčič to oversee intelligence and security services. She didn't even question him. We all know what would happen if Mr Klemenčič did not respond to such an invitation. Then there would be just one scream and a scream about how someone was actually hiding something. Today, to discuss Mr Klemenčič's assets, it seems incorrect to me, because we discussed this in the previous term when you, Mr Mahnic, did not have much debate and many illegal things were done in these procedures. On the other hand, it seems good to invite you; if you have any facts, please report to the KPK immediately and do not burden this meeting and this report by the Commission with these statements and various indications and exploiting how there is actually a suspicion and the possibility that someone has even earned it. Report, please! We'll all be grateful to you for the investigation. First of all, I hope you come with evidence. As long as it's not, I understand your performance as just one political abuse in some particular procedure. On the other hand, at the end of the day, I should say that the President and the members of the Commission have drawn up the report correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u9	The text is requested by the representative of the proposer mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u10	Thank you. I've already told you that we've already provided materials to law enforcement agencies, so we sent them to the police and we've become the prosecution, and I'll read you the exact conclusions later. Now that the Commission has been mentioned to prevent corruption, let me say that we have worked with them all the time, and when we have also talked about the work of their predecessors, and even about this story, we are then 6. 9. 2017 received their request for transmission of data or documentation, which I read separately. “The Anti-Corruption Commission shall conduct a procedure in relation to the suspicion of maladministration of the competent authorities...” – this is the precise definition of corruption by law, namely – "to determine the existence of actual signs of corruption, as defined by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, to issue a principled opinion and findings in a particular case concerning the Farrokhzadah case, we therefore invite you to give us a report and conclusions..." – which are still public – »commissions on this matter and send this documentation to us within three days». Of course, we have also gladly done so, and we now expect the KPC to carry out its task, and with regard to the conduct of the people mentioned earlier, that of the principled opinion and also of the concrete conclusions on the suspension of the obligation to act, that is to say corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u11	Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u12	Dear Member Mr Grimes [[…]] He misunderstood me when I explained the commission's jurisdiction. I'm going to do it again, and now a little bit more precisely so that we don't get it too wrong. I was talking about Article 26 of the Law on Parliamentary Control, what the Commission can actually do, and I was talking about Article 13 and not least Article 3. I'm sorry, you don't have any jurisdiction under this law for half the things you did on the committee. I'm sorry. Similarly, if you look at the Rules of Procedure, you will see in Article 29 where and when, in what way you can report a matter. I don't blame you for that. I like the fact that the matter has been tampered with, as it is called, and the National Assembly has corrected the mistake by setting up an investigative commission. I commended you at work – I don't even play you – but, if you remember, yesterday I said one thing very clearly. It is very dangerous when the president and members of the commission – any committee, investigative committee, not least your commission – use it, and it is a very thin border, for political purposes. Of course, this is not the same as discovering political responsibility, but you will agree with me — it is not your responsibility. This is the jurisdiction of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u13	We continue the debate. Ambassador Marjan Dolinšek, Dr. Ange Logar and Mag. Andrej Šircelj are the next panellists. Here you go, Mr. Dolinshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman. When we heard it yesterday, today this story, which is very interesting, is really read as one of those novels. I have to say first, even sometimes, and today I also got the feeling that SMC was involved in this. I used to get this feeling, but I believe that this is just the way you've been discussing it and that you probably don't think because SMC wasn't there at the time. I have no particular problems with this matter, so I also participated in the committee and also supported all the conclusions concerning this story that we have today, item 30, on the table. Indeed, the question arises as to what happened at the time. What links, links, and how and in the end a great question about certain individuals, who probably also envisioned such a scenario and then what was being implemented and implemented – we are talking about a billion money that has been rounded around the world, has been transfused through the New Ljubljana Bank. Somehow in three elements, we could talk in three parts; for the first time, we can talk about the suspicion of money laundering and the suspicion of financing terrorism. In the second part on the political responsibility of the then executive and in the third part on the competent authorities, each after his or her office, how they did their work, how they did it. Apparently, they didn't do it the way they were supposed to. But let's not think about it. It's probably going to be people in front of the TVs that are watching us. Maybe someone will be asked the question that maybe the legislation wasn't right. No, far from it! It is man who does the work entrusted to him, and any institution, each has its own task — man who has not done what he should. On the other hand, do laws really have to say when you should step right, and how many centimeters, all the way to precision? We are already such specialists in the legislation that when we adopt it, the next day someone will find and exploit it, find a hole and so on. But the problem is in people, in people. That's when we can really wonder why. Indeed, we have heard several times today, and we can think whether something similar can happen today. There's always this option. I hope that both law enforcement agencies and institutions from the KPK will then the Anti-Money Laundering Office, that they will also be doing their work today, possible for the actions that may be taking place today – it has been heard several times before. I would like to point out that, for God's sake, all those responsible at these institutions really start doing your job responsibly. Every day, not just back. It's too late to follow, too. That's it. Speaking of surveillance, we're not just talking about years ago. Many times now it has shown itself and proved that it is already too late. Then there are obsolete hands, court epilogues and things are falling. Therefore, from this point of view, I call on all these authorities in the first place not to repeat that they are seriously doing their daily work, for which they are paid. In fact, it is unacceptable, incomprehensible, that certain acts left behind what they should have done at the time. Let us now not run away because it is an open part of what specific matters, as has been evident from the correspondence documents that were available to us in the Intelligence Supervisory Commission. I can say that the Bank of Slovenia has actually been mentioned recently. We're talking about money laundering. Banka Slovenije literally, because then she said she reacted but again, I wonder if today she's doing her job, controlling what she's doing, or not. [[…]] I hope they're listening. And really, does it have to happen to certain affairs, events, such as in this case, that something is going on? I'm also surprised that the media has noticed that the police have now taken these things into their hands and are working. Then why aren't they, if everything was okay? But why does it have to come when it's a coup about a matter, when there's a lot to talk about, especially here in our kind, and then they fold. Also after this appeal to these law enforcement authorities: start doing your business actively, properly. Every thing isn't right to throw away, because there's no doubt about it. Perhaps in this case, too, from what an individual has been involved in determining whether it is — we are talking about law enforcement. True, there may have been no indications at first sight, but then coordination was not right, among ourselves, among the individual services! Obviously, this could have been the outcome of the results, and what was given us to look into from the documents, obviously this was the case. So I'm not going to talk about abandoning my duty, etc. In fact, this case is extremely unacceptable. If I take political responsibility. Political responsibility. I don't know, I won't mention the names, we know, by correspondence, the letters were sent to certain ministers concerned, headed by then President Danil Türk and Prime Minister Borut Pahor – and no reactions. You can really ask yourself, the most visible people — and nothing of all! Whether they didn't care at the time, maybe even today, it doesn't matter to this country or then I don't see any other explanation. [[…]] Then there's another moment why no one answered and responded. The President of the Government, I must say, it has been heard before that at the time of the surrender – I am talking about the second, the next government, there was nothing about it at the time of the handover, on no department about it. There was nothing detected at the handover. I don't understand that either. If there were any documents, did they clean everything up when the new government came to notice that she didn't see anything? But I'm asking a question. Injury of the state. Good. The damage that cannot be measured is something else, but in one part it was damage, because Nova Ljubljanska Banka was exempt from commissions for entry fees when the money came into the account with Nova Ljubljanska Banka. That's very interesting! The greatest of our paraded horses in Krka, Telekom — you should have received it if you wanted it or wanted it well! But unfortunately, Krka was not granted this leave, Telekom – and I could even list it. But there was a stranger who opened the account for a few months and then left. Let me get this straight. I am also very surprised by the statement made by Nova Ljubljanska Banka Director Draška Veselinović, who said in a statement like this, quote, “Everything was given according to the rules of the game.” What kind of games? Who stopped the game? Who designed this game? That's the question. So this statement by the then president was very surprising and normal, and then the thought also leads to this: yes, a good statement, a very diplomatic statement, but of course – whose game was this? And I'm gonna stop here and finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u15	Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Marko Ferluga. Dr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you, Chairman. My forerunner, Mr. Dolinšek, is right. Farrokhzadeh was the only company in Nova Ljubljanska Banka that was exempted from the payment of the inflow fee. Only one. Can you imagine? An enterprise with two dollars of institutional capital, which only transfers funds from Iran to the European Payment System, is the only one! — in the largest state bank that is exempt from the payment of this fee. That information should have raised all the calls everywhere, and apparently it wasn't, but the thing was going on as it is. I am truly sorry that citizens cannot follow this debate, which we have previously had in two secret parts. Nothing! Because there are actually concrete robust data that no longer allow for doubt. I think that citizens are entitled to hear what we have heard, Members, before in closed work. From the fact that these two banks have been rehabilitated twice. And given that the business relationship has concluded that the Slovenian public already knows about the matter, I think that in this respect we should adopt some sui generis solution that would allow citizens and citizens, i.e. those who have already paid several thousand euros in their own pockets, not at their own request, but after a policy decision to find out what was going on. You know what the most amazing thing about the whole story is? That the only body responsible for the task is the National Assembly, in the form of reports from two committees. Or maybe he hasn't done it yet. Tuesday, if these two reports get support, he'll do it. The only organ in the country and the only organ that has the worst public image! And he's the only one who did the job! Everyone else was through that golden scheme I can't see, I can't hear, I'm not saying anything. And they are today. I'm sorry, I really don't understand this media silence that's connected to this story. Look, I don't understand. Yesterday, very relevant data were presented in a public debate from all sides, and today, written media and some televisions, including national television, in daily news broadcasts or a word about it. Even more! I received an e-mail: "Dear Mr. Ange, I inform you that yesterday and this morning on the MMC website," that is, the television we all pay 12.75 euros each month "there was no third part of the 33rd regular meeting of the National Assembly in the Archives. This is the part where you filed an interim report on the parliamentary investigation carried out by Farrokh. Since you liked to see several sessions in the archive, I called the MMC this morning and said that this work was not in the Archives. They told me it was a pure administrative error." Look, in the case of Farrokh, we have an administrative error for an administrative error, not least as regards the number of zeros, not least as to what the law allows us and what it does not allow us, let there be different interpretations as to the powers of an individual body. In short, administrative error for administrative error. Who's in the business? Once again, I wonder who is in interest — obviously very strong for someone. And I'm going to end up with another slightly broader context. Do you know when Iran opened an embassy in Slovenia? October 2010 Unbelievable, isn't it? October 2010! First in Austria Trend Hotel temporarily, then he bought a building and then opened his embassy in July 2011. I won't say because it's an open part, but you probably don't have to guess twice where the bank came from to buy the embassy and who gave permission to buy this embassy – well, Mr Samuel Žbogar! Nor will you believe that the Iranian Foreign Minister has come to the opening of the embassy and opened it together with the Slovenian Foreign Minister, Mr Žbogar. At the opening, Mr Žbogar said that "the continued presence of Iranian diplomats will help to further strengthen relations between countries, particularly in the economic, scientific and cultural fields". We already know about the economics today, don't we, it's gotten a lot stronger. Scientifically, I don't know what it was like to buy frozen chickens, saffron and so on, to enrich this scientific cooperation, or to buy fertilizers that we know what they can be used for. On the cultural side, it is likely cost of living, the cost of living, which is then spent on cultural life. At the meeting prior to the opening of the Embassy in Ljubljana, ministers also spoke about Iran's nuclear programme. Both sides probably had something to say; our foreign minister is very likely. The Foreign Minister also said that "the trade is very good" at the time, saying that "the trade was 45 million euro in the past year". Huh! He forgot to say, plus one billion. Now I don't know if he was covering up information or if it was official information that he could communicate. But the official trade was 22 times larger or unofficial than the official trade. When this whole story comes together, I don't think you need to talk about conspiracy theory anymore, but that conspiracy theory was obviously business as sexual. And because it was, there is such silence today and such negativity after discovering the problem. I hope that through this public debate, at least this part of the public pressure will be put in place so that we can ask those responsible who sit there to do everything in their power to investigate these cases. They still have some time, as we know, some things get older in two years, some years longer, but once again: hurry, at the end of 2018 the deletion of documents in NLB begins.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u17	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare for mag. Branko Grims and Mr. Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! With all the stories that are happening here yesterday and happening today, it's hard to say anything new, but perhaps, for example, some writer like John only Carré found a lot of groundwork for his future books. He was also an investigator in the English anti-intelligence service for some time, and he writes books, such as The Night Manager and similar things, where he describes such stories and such works and activities of the former communist regime, how he actually deals in arms or how he trades money for arms purchases and so on. Definitely probably a lot of material for an extra novel, as you would say. But the story, if we look at it, not just as a reader of the novel, but if we look at it today and here, it's probably a lot more worrying. Especially because of the concern that this story gives us and these two reports of these two committees, in fact, the mirror in which we actually live. In fact, it gives us a mirror in that everything that is happening in the media today and so on is probably some kind of fiction, probably some beautiful story, how everything is wonderful and how everything is happening and how we have only on one side very ugly people and on the other hand beautiful people. And this third story is that there is another community, if you want, another network that actually runs a lot of things in this country. And it's hidden from the public. If I quote Mr Dolinsk or mention my colleague Dolinsk, who spoke about these games. Yeah, these games are real, and someone here actually runs them. And I don't know if anyone else has any insight into what's actually going on. I think these two committees have found certain facts, but it's not in their power to figure out who's running these games. There may be some names that are familiar with who is responsible for this, but someone here is probably still running this game. Of course, we can talk about the fact that this is a huge coincidence, as my colleague Logar has already said, administrative errors and so on. It can be a good organisation, it can be a organised crime that has happened, which has also occurred in some way in the previous system if you want, even as legal, and today it has gone underground and is actually happening. It is here that certain services or services that are supposed to control, prevent all of this, in accordance with international standards, if not with our own, simply do not work or fail. That's what this case shows for me. Of course, it all starts and ends with money, and in the meantime there are certain actions to get as much money as possible – and it is known that a lot of money is obtained by selling weapons, of course I also mean chemical substances, nuclear weapons and so on. It's just that in your own mind, if you want, novels or anywhere else, you can find out that arms dealers are, and so on, very richly paid. But if someone is still working to deal with a country that is banned from doing business, and this is happening in the euro area, in the heart of Europe, where there are certain ratings for such banks because they exist in the euro area; see, then, of course, the price is even higher. There's no record of where this money is now. Of course, we can say why all this was financed, which orders for chickens, Miki Miške and so on they went, and of course we do not know who got this payment. These services probably won't answer that either, I don't think so. If he does, of course, I will be very happy that this answer will be where the whole deal is done. I'm missing something here. Of course, this exemption from the entry fee made by the bank is probably to show hospitality to this company from Iran, solidarity, but there is really no end here. In my opinion, it is not a coincidence, but it is simply a business, a project that has been carried out and which, after a few years, has actually come out and come out here. More will be explored, it will be better for the future of Slovenia. More will be explored, more will be known, more will be presented transparently, better for the future of Slovenia. I am talking about the future because we must become a credible country. Today was, not because of this transmission that someone was carrying, someone wanted to hide it and so on. And here's the question of what the motive is to hide it. What is the motive of national television for administrative error? Did someone order that? Has anyone called? To reduce this transmission a little bit, to put it a little bit on the side track, let's do a little bit less time for this. See, these are all relevant issues that have already occurred in the National Assembly at these meetings. It's not in the interest of someone who can pay for information, what will happen and what won't happen. We have agencies in Slovenia that do this. Not only do they pay for what is not published, but they also pay for what is published and how many times is published and so on. In fact, it is a sad story for now, including an unfinished story. Many questions remain open, there are no many answers. But I'm glad there's as many as there are. That is why, of course, I will support these reports, and I hope, of course, that this will be explored to the end and that at least we will get those final answers and probably live in a country of equal citizens and citizens for whom legal certainty will be applied to all equally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u19	We have three more panellists to report. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Branko Grimes, we proceed with Mr. Janez Janša and Mag. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you. When we talk about the work of secret services, sometimes it is very boring, but sometimes not so much. The theme ahead of us today has a very interesting dimension. If we were to watch a depraved American film, we could see how a key witness we should be hearing in a process the next day falls off a ladder and kills herself just the day before the hearing, and this is an official statement by the police. In fact, the story is slightly different, but then it happens as a criminal across the film. If we were to watch this scene in multiple movies, we'd say, but at least let's think of something more original. You will not believe that this is exactly what we are talking about here today in the context of the story ahead of us. A key witness who decided that it was not money laundering and decided, at a supersonic speed in just one week, the day before the hearing, after official findings, fell down from a four - meter ladder and hit a flower pot and died. From here on out, I leave your imagination. In view of the fact that some of the information I received from outside Parliament during this time is obviously unclear to people what we are going to decide today and what we will certainly support in the SDS, let me explain what this is really about. Unlike the investigator, the Commission has somewhat different powers to control intelligence and security services, so we have already decided on our own, and we have already adopted a decision to quote it, “... that the Commission's Special Report on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services in the field of proliferation, money laundering and financing of terrorism – the Farrokhzadeh and NLB case, together with all the documentation, is being transmitted to the Attorney General and the National Investigation Office in anticipation of acting in accordance with applicable legislation in all cases of illegal operation of institutions, bodies and responsible individuals, and expecting us to be informed of the findings of the course of the investigation of everything properly and through.” This is said to be what you will decide with the investigator on Tuesday, and we have already done so on the Commission to supervise the intelligence and security services. Things have already been officially sent to the competent institutions within our competence. In addition, we have adopted a decision aimed at the National Assembly and I quote: “The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia supports the Commission's special report on the monitoring of intelligence and security services in the area of proliferation, money laundering – the Farrokhzadeh case and NLB, prepared by the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.” So what does that involve? It contains such a secret part of the report, which, because of the documentation covered there, carries the level of confidentiality and has been presented to Members of Parliament at a closed meeting before – unfortunately, I cannot do so. In addition, because it is a matter of correct public information, we have also drawn up a review, which is in Chapter 5, which is public and reads as follows: The findings of the Commission, and I quote: "The Intelligence and Security Services Monitoring Commission estimates that in a specific case, the Anti-Money Laundering Office should, on the basis of the full documentation, indicate the reasonable suspicion of money laundering, terrorist financing and financing of proliferation funds, submit a report to the detection and prosecution authorities." The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is in response to the KPK 20. 6. He stated in that case that they had not established the reasons for the suspicion of the service of the corrupt acts of the employees of the bank, but that they had established the grounds for the suspicion of the offence of money laundering and had informed the authorities of the detection. That notification was forwarded by the Anti-Money Laundering Office to police 19. 11. 2010 And the police as the detection authority are already 25. 11. 2010 concluded, and I quote, "There are no grounds for suspecting a crime of money laundering." Sounds like less than a week. On the basis of a notification from the Owl, it was then assessed that the financing of terrorism and proliferation activities were suspected. According to the source of money, there is a suspicion that it also originates from the Iranian government. The Commission considers that it is likely that the operatives who dealt with the matter at the police station did not have all the data or all the data did not reach them. The Commission found that the CAP did not have the data that the Anti-Money Laundering Office had compiled on the CD and forwarded them to the police and the Owls at the same time. It is also not clear that the operatives were aware of the specific intelligence and CD annex transmitted by Sova to the Minister of Interior and the Director-General of Police. Before that, it's Owl 3. 11. 2010 provided the Director-General of Police with information indicating the suspicion of financing proliferation funds in France through the NLB account. The information included a bank account with an IBAN number and a bank address. This is said to be NLB, Square of the Republic 2, Ljubljana, Slovenia. The police are 24 years old. 11. She had at least two sets of extensive information on the NLB case and failed to complete a single forecasting process. On the other hand, UPPD, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, has for a long time not disclosed all the data of the UKP, such as what domestic bank it was – it was NLB, clearly – and which foreign bank – EDBI, is called a bank from Iran – which was in some way a hindrance or delay in an investigation, since it was essential information that these people should definitely have. On the basis of the documentation, the KNOVS notes that Owl was responsive and cooperative when it was issued by the Anti-Money Laundering Office 12. 8. 2010 requested cooperation. With international cooperation, the Agency has obtained a lot of information, especially for Farrokh Ltd., which, through an account with NLB, is expected to participate in the financing of proliferation transactions from December 2009 onwards – it is said that the purchase of a company dealing with the sale of electronic components and equipment for a company dealing with the export of precursors for dual-use weapons, indirect financing of a particular Iranian proliferation company for the purchase of copper alloys, of course, for military purposes again – and many suspicions that contacts with proliferation suspect entities have occurred in many cases. KNOVS noted that the Anti-Money Laundering Office had already been informed by the French Intelligence Service on 26 March 2010 that the transactions of Farrokh Ltd were related to proliferation transactions via NLB and that it did not inform the Sowes, but it was from the French service 7. 4. 2010 claimed further explanations as to why they were interested in Farrokhzadeh and Farrokh Ltd. That, by the way, extended the procedure for one month. The French office was then 11. 6. In its supplementary proposal, he gave reasons for suspecting money laundering through Farrokh Ltd. The Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services found that the Anti-Money Laundering Office had initiated an investigation into suspicious transactions via NLB following the application of the French Office and had initiated a inquiry into the company’s and owner’s operations. NLB then responded 30. Seven. 2010 and the response showed that there was already very much traffic through open accounts. However, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, when it asked the police and the Owl to cooperate, did not disclose which Slovenian bank it was all about until 19. 11. 2010 Despite the fact that individual transfers from Farrokh Ltd via NLB to France also went to France for the purposes of fraud, participation in fraud and the laundering of assets obtained through fraud, for which a fine of 5 years under French law is threatened. In this case, too, the investigation was apparently prolonged as there was no complete data. In the specific case, KNOVS was surprised by the conduct of the KPK. They received a secret whistleblower document from the Bank of Slovenia indicating the suspicion of a crime of money laundering. The KPK assessed that it was not competent and therefore handed over the document informally to the police, the NPU. Before that, they put together a document to protect the whistleblower. In addition, the allegations of a crime were not forwarded to the police on the basis of the CAP decisions, as stipulated by the agreement concluded between the KPK and the MNZ and the police of 1. 6. In 2010, but the document was handed over to an NPU official to take it to the police, where every trace was then lost. The management of the KPK is contrary to the existing agreement between the KPK, the MNZ and the police of 1. 6. 2010 constitutes a breach of the formal operating arrangements of the official institutions. The KNOVS noted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not respond at all to the case at issue, where the permanent coordination group on restrictive measures is responsible for monitoring the Islamic State of Iran and the operations of its citizens and services. The owl is 24. 11. 2010 with special intelligence and a CD annex also informed the then Minister Samuel Žbogar. In addition, the Ministry was informed by the Anti-Money Laundering Office and the police and did not respond or cooperate in any way. This is particularly problematic because it follows from the data of the investigation that the money of the Iranian Government was laundering through Farrokh Ltd... KNOVS found that the management of the Owl with special information 24. 11. none of the representatives of the legislative authority or of the President of the National Assembly have been briefed. The information was also not made known to the then Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services as the directly parent institution for the control of all the activities carried out by the Agency. The KNOVS was subsequently informed of that matter in a similar report dated 11. 5. 2011 under the heading Proliferation very briefly and in general. As a matter of fact, I read in the closed section of the session, I hope you laughed heartily. It's a 25-year-old owl. 11. In 2010, 21 partner services were informed by that specific information. However, it did not familiarise the American and Israeli services with the above information, explaining that those countries and citizens are not covered by NLB remittances, which it does not, of course, hold, since several transactions were made to the NLB account, including Bank of New York Mellon. The leadership of the Owl is 9. 2. 2011 decided and requested the cooperation and exchange of data also by the American CIA and the Israeli Service. However, it did not inform the American and Israeli services with all the information, including all the specific data on disputed transactions via NLB reported to the addresses in those two countries. The administration of the Owl was different from that of all other services in the Farrokhzadeh NLB case. A similar case was discovered by KNOVS with the police. The GOC did not at all request Interpol of the Republic of Germany to cooperate or provide information on the transactions of Farrokh Ltd and others which have transferred financial assets through NLB to the accounts of natural and legal persons in Germany. Although it is evident from the data of the UKP and the Owl, Germany was first on the list following the remittances received from the NLB. So much is that part of the report, or the facts that are available to the public. As I said at the outset, in this case we can peacefully say that whoever has the power to launder money for the purchase of weapons of mass destruction, for proliferation and terrorism of one billion and at the same time shut down all control institutions and all law enforcement authorities, is extremely powerful to steal the country in some way. And to bring the country back to where it stands, that is, to the hands of citizens and citizens who have the only power under the Constitution, it is necessary to give people the correct information. That's why this one's so important. To conclude, let me point out once again that only Parliament, as the colleague has already said, has done its duty. And in Parliament the information by the time it appeared in the spring, and then when we told the public that it was a billion dollars, it never came. The report I was talking about came up with a few small reports, these are from Mossad, which are not being discussed, in which the individual segments were mentioned to be money-splitting and so on. However, it has never been mentioned as crucial, which was only accessible to some in the country; the real executive branch of the government, the government, the ministers, and the representative branches, is said to the President of the country. And that's the key information that $1 billion of money has been laundered. It's only once you get that dimension, of course all the alarms are ringing. This has been silenced by the legislative branch of the authorities, and the public has also been silenced, and we have warned the public of this in the spring when we first introduced it to the public and then suddenly all the proceedings have run out, things are moving from a dead point, and this is proof that Parliament has done its job well.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u21	Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u22	Thank you very much. As has already been said, it is only too early to commend Parliament. We will give these praises on Tuesday if both committees are to be accepted; I hope they will. Surely, however, it is time to commend the two commissions, especially the Anjets, who have actually done some work here, for which others are paid and rich. And they were probably, that's the only logical explanation, richly paid for not doing their job. This is very likely not about ideology, not about fanatically belonging to Islam: it is easy for money. For a lot of money. For a thousand million euros, not dollars, for a thousand million euros! These numbers are important. Thousands of millions were unlawful from the country and from the institution of this country, which is subject to triple sanctions, through the largest state bank, to over 30,000 accounts in the countries of our allies; either in the European Union or in relation to NATO. That's why they also needed a bank from the Eurosystem, the Western Bank, to do it. If it were true for chickens and for the cost of living, this could be indicated directly from the Iranian bank anywhere; small amounts without problem, as they were not all under sanctions. In short, it was a criminal activity of a huge extent, so far as it was not close to a comparable case anywhere else at the time Iran was subject to sanctions. And part of these sanctions still apply when it comes to proliferation, when it comes to the payment of funds for dual purposes, which can also be used for the manufacture of nuclear or chemical weapons, these prohibitions still apply. Slovenia is party to a series of international conventions, international commitments within NATO and other alliances that bind us not to do so. About what the consequences are, a little later. As we have already noted yesterday, and when experts have noted months ago, the next issue, which is very important, is how payments are made for such unheard-of criminal activity. The commissions are 30% to 50%. That's what the experts said. So, in this case, it's 300 to 500 million euros. Many have avoided these figures and this fact in the debate. Above all, it is important that this work is fundamentally threatened by our national security and national security, virtually all our allies, formal allies in both relationships, which are – one in full and the other in part – also security and where we have international obligations under international agreements, treaties; agreements that we have ratified here, some even in the referendum, two of them even in the referendum. In 2009 and 2010, Slovenia has been in grave breach of the set of agreements by this use. It is quite funny today when our President of the Government explains how he will not attend a meeting with the neighbouring Prime Minister, because he said at a certain event in the United Nations Hall that the arbitration agreement had been contaminated and would therefore not be respected. These words were spoken by the President of the neighbouring country from June onwards, and he probably repeated them a thousand times, so I just don't understand them. However, I warn against excessive swearing, non-compliance with international agreements by representatives of Slovenia, because in this case we have violated a lot of them, drasticly. Today, world agencies are pledging when the president of Iran solemnly announced that Iran is capable of achieving the next stage in the development of rocket technology and that they are going to do so. Even laymen know that it is not the greatest threat that a country sponsoring terrorism produces nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons become a serious threat when this country is capable of sending this nuclear weapon some tens of thousands of miles away and at that point becomes a global threat. Iran has announced today that it has reached a stage when it can do so. We know what's going on across the planet with these threats from North Korea. With North Korea as compared to Iran and with Iran's capacities and Iran's financial and technological capabilities, it is a banana Republic. North Korea, for example, is a third-degree threat, Iran is a fifth-degree threat. If he puts together atomic weapons and rocket technology, he can send these atom bombs thousands or ten thousand kilometers away. We have seen that through the New Ljubljana Bank, through the largest Slovenian state bank in 2009 and 2010, the types of funds used for the production of rocket technology and nuclear weapons were paid. That these are not supposed to be the findings of foreign services, and these findings were made by the Slovenian authorities. Do not be surprised if in the coming months or years it is found that some such funds have also been purchased in Slovenia. At least some transactions point to that. Special alloys, special steels used for these types of weapons, these dual-use devices have been at least used here in relation to transfers to iron and metal. No one, and no authority in Slovenia has investigated it. In view of these numerous international agreements and conventions, we should be bound by them. It was again mentioned how unusual it was that, at the time of the handover of government transactions in 2012, no department, nor at the level of the Prime Minister, was this money laundering mentioned. Not mentioned. It was not mentioned later, all year long, but we were very close to finding out at the end of 2012 and at the beginning of 2013. At that time, the Constitutional Court had unlocked the Bad Bank Act, it was clear that a new administration would come to the New Ljubljana Bank to transfer credits and it was not difficult to calculate that they were coming weeks when these things would unravel. A few days after the divorce, some broke our coalition. If anyone thinks that it was by chance that the money with which this so-called people's uprising was lit up mediaically and in all other ways came from the modest savings of those who wore these banners, then that can be thought, but none of that, after what we now know, will believe. Indeed, here were some debates that are understandable, logical, when it was trying to protect those in which this parliamentary inquiry must show because it is an investigative commission to determine political responsibility. We should not be surprised that this report mentions people who were the bearers of national or political functions and who knew about it. I would like to know how my colleague, Mr Janša, would like to discuss the Commission's discovery of a document stating that the work was carried out by Prime Minister Janez Janša, Minister of the Interior of Vinko Gorenak, Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel, Finance Minister Janez Šušteršič, Police Director Jože Romšek. I wonder if this is where I'd like to be asked how a little attention should be given to working in gloves. I want to know! Otherwise, we know what it would be like because we've been through a lot. We're on the phone with names now. The Commission is obliged to discuss names, directly or indirectly. Names need to be talked about, so this thing clears up. And in November 2010, the country’s top officials, including half the government, were practically, with the exception of the President of the National Assembly – and nobody is interested in why this was obvious – received a report where all the essential data was. That it is a huge sum, that money laundering is suspected, that money is coming from Iran, that Iran is subject to sanctions, that abroad is alerted to the use of this money for the purchase of nuclear and chemical weapons materials. At least for the time being, neither one committee nor another has found one single piece of evidence, one way to get any of those who have been informed of what they have done. If I were the Prime Minister and I received such a report or anyone else; in three hours, the National Security Council should be meeting because this report is about how national security is threatened, not only our own, but also the national security of our allies, and the competent services would be given the task of dealing with it as a matter of highest priority. However, nothing happened, nothing happened even after the matter or investigation, or as we can see from these documents, was very quickly completed. These people were then in their positions for another year, the President of the Government also partly the President of the State, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, sat at least 4 or 5 meetings of the NATO Summit or of the European Union this year, where the figures were very frank and the serious consequences were presented as a threat to Iran. There probably, on behalf of Slovenia, everyone swore that sanctions should be respected and how to help and participate in the collection and prevention of information, while at home there was an accelerated payment traffic for the purchase of funds for the production of Iranian nuclear and chemical weapons and missile technology and for the payment of the Agency that carried it out. The first task of the Iranian Agency is to enable the nuclear programme to be successfully completed. We've known this for 15 years now. Those who received this report, not only did they know this, were also directly informed of the concrete consequences of achieving this objective and nevertheless did nothing. If it's to believe them, they say they didn't do anything. They did not ask what was the result of the investigation, nor did they ask how the competent services respond to the results of the investigation. Nothing happened. The first addressee, Mr Türk, then even ran for office as Secretary-General of the United Nations Organization, whose sanctions and resolutions Slovenia was in grave breach under his presidency – of course, the matter ended in piano. Imagine, though, that on one occasion he would have been elected and then it would have erupted in public as it would now be. Mr. Pahor has a big problem here in this thing at the end. The Minister of the Interior, probably the Minister of the Interior, then gave it to the police, there was Director Janko Goršek, who has all the qualifications to read it, see what it is about. It worked in the opposite direction clearly; in the direction of stopping the investigation. He was and is still rewarded today, I think the police attaché is in one of the Balkan states. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Žbogar, something about this has already been said by Mr Logar, without his consent that this is happening, I do not think the matter could be running. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has a special commission under the law dealing with border cases. Even when it comes to such transactions, he must give permission if they are doubtful. We received an answer from them that they had never dealt with it. Clearly, the matter could not have taken place without the consent of Mr Krizanic, Minister of Finance. The operation was probably carried out by his infamous consultant with good contacts in the office of the President of the country where a similar consultant was present. Mr Križanič is lying to the Slovenian public today that he has not been informed of this at all. I think that at the time of his ministry in three years and something has never received a more important notice, or a message, or a report such as this report. He certainly did not receive any other report of the same weight as this report on the laundering of Iranian money. The director of the criminal police was Mr Jevšek, today the mayor of the SD party in Murska Sobota, says it was not a crime. He claims that today, in public. His executive assistant was Mr Funk, who dealt with this, as we see from the documentation – today he is the general director of the police, who is supposed to be investigating it now. But who believes the police under Mr. Funk will investigate this? The director of the NPU was part of the time that this was happening, Harry Furlan. The document that KPK handed over to the NPU in an unpredictably way, which, by contrast, ended there. Today, Mr Furlan is President or Head of the Special Prosecutor's Group to Investigate the Worst Forms of Crime; this is also said to be an investigation. Do you think the D.A. will investigate this? Under his leadership? Then the Anti-Corruption Commission, Mr Klemenčič, Mr Stare – one chief of commission, another head of investigation. Previously, it was specifically quoted which rule was in force, how the document should be handed over to the police. It went completely through, no word to the D.A.! Mr Klemenčič and Mr Stare were opposed to the fact that the Commission of Inquiry received documents from the New Ljubljana Bank when the court ruled on this. You already know why. Presidents there, Mr Kos and Mr Praprotnik, were both financially awarded directly; one with a position in the New Ljubljana Bank, for which as a journalist he had no qualifications, the other with an hourly item, I do not know, 200 or how many euros per hour to clean up the portfolio. Mr. Procurator is still there. Do you think this sector of the New Ljubljana Bank will be cooperative in the investigation that is to take place now? Then of course we have Banka Slovenije, Governor Marko Kranjec, responsible for many other things, for this absolutely special. The Bank of Slovenia did not act until, probably from all ends, even personally, pressure came from abroad, what was going on here. Even after they issued that Regulation on corrective measures, the traffic was still running. The regulation was issued in autumn, the traffic ran until the end of the year, and I think by 31 December it was the last remittance. While the regulation was issued, after the entire Slovenian political summit, with the extraordinary President of the National Assembly, was informed of the figures and the substance of the matter, traffic was still in progress. 200 million euros or how much more has been announced. These people who were informed now say they did not act because they thought it was being investigated. In Banka Slovenije he was responsible for supervision – this control should have prevented it, clearly – then Boža Jašovic was responsible. This then became the chairman of the NLB administration. At first, he did not control it, and then he even did it, and he's still somewhere in the banking system on a well-paid function. After that, Stanka Zadravec Caprirolo was responsible for the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. Think about it. The lady is the director of the Association of Banks of Slovenia today. Exceptional qualifications! Money Laundering Office – Director Andrej Plaussteiner. He did exactly the opposite of what the institution was in charge of; instead of detecting and preventing money laundering, he allowed and covered it up. Responsible at the office of colleague Pongracič, he had to work with all four of them on this, otherwise this could not be happening. Also, the new director sitting here apparently took over the baton, as we heard at the closed session. This office is now supposed to cooperate with these people in the investigation of this work. Yeah, come on.Oh, my God! Three administrations of Nova Ljubljanska banka led by Marjan Kramar, Draška Veselinović, Boža Jašovica – all made this possible. Even then, Mr. Jašovič took a decision or decided at that time that the Iranians did not pay these taxes or tide commissions. Earlier, Mr Tonin had said that someone had told him that at least Slovenia had not stolen anything from this crime. Of course it was. This is about millions, probably tens of millions of commissions that haven't been paid. As we've heard before, this was the only committee that didn't have to pay for it. When you pay the bill at this bank, they will take half the euro or one euro for each. There were no commissions here for one billion. And as the late Joze Pučnik would say, Nothing to anyone. Then the middle staff at the New Ljubljana Bank, who participated in this operationally. It is not true that there was no system to draw attention to the possibility of suspicious transactions. It was this computer system, but they blocked it and did things manually. And then they even gave the Iranians the Proclamation to do it themselves. Some officials have warned of this, things have come to the right institutions. Instead of reacting, they blurted it out and prevented sanctions. What happens to the names that I have listed, and some others, depends on whether or not the matter will be investigated and whether we reach the bottom or not. If this is actually seriously investigated, many more will fall out of the closet. Some colleagues have already mentioned media coverage. You imagine another European country where it would be found that the largest bank in their state-owned state-owned bank had laundered a billion euro of money for terrorists and their parliament would discuss it and that the media considered national would not record or report a word of it. You think this is possible in Italy, Austria, you think this is possible in Croatia, Bosnia, Montenegro, Serbia – it is not possible. Even in Albania, it is not possible. Nowhere is possible, only in Slovenia is this possible. Both national television diaries, the biggest commercial television, the four journals considered national — nothing! If anyone thinks it's a case, don't say it out loud because we're gonna laugh. What do you do? From now until Tuesday, when the National Assembly votes on these conclusions, it is a few days. We expect all those who are now in political, public and high official functions and who are clearly recognised by these works, which are signed under these documents, which are clear that they have cooperated in doing so until then. Especially the people who are in these functions in the bodies of investigation and prosecution, or we will take some conclusions on Tuesday. Then we will expect Mr Funk, director of the Slovenian Police, to investigate the failure of Mr Funk in 2009 and 2010. We will expect Mr Hari Furlan to pursue the non-action of Harry Furlan as Director of the NPU in 2009 and 2010. From those responsible at the New Ljubljana Bank, who are all still in certain functions, we will expect them to be cooperative here, from the gentleman who is there today for business compliance, and once he was a journalist, and then at the KPK, we will expect him to search and deliver all the documentation. We will expect from Mr Klemenčič that he will encourage the judicial authorities to investigate this immediately and thoroughly, including his actions or imbalances, that Mr Staret, who is changing the color again, is not even mentioned. Look, we have a few days and in these days the credibility of Slovenia will be demonstrated. In all this ghastly story, there may also be a few flashes or some hopes, some promises of a bright one. As regards the last elections and the so-called victory of the Modern Centre Party in these elections, we have our own opinion on this. These were unfair elections, and we will never change that opinion as to what the result was. Nevertheless, I must say that neither the Commission nor the other could have accepted these reports without this party, at least not unanimously. I do not think that Mr Logar's investigative commission would have come to the majority adoption of this report if the largest government party had not voted in favour or opposed it. Something happened here that gives some hope, but it's just the beginning. What has been said before is true, the parties of the modern centre at the time when this was happening have not yet been in the Slovenian Parliament and as a political group is not responsible for this. While there have been some others who are now in this party and are always there where the authority is, but the party as such has not been, there is not this mortgage and at this point can do very much not only for its credibility, but for the credibility of Slovenia in the future. However, not only by voting for this report at the Commission and in the National Assembly, but by acting. Because from Tuesday on, if both of you are to be accepted, there will be a time to act and we will weigh in. This is so large, it has such an international response, at least in the competent institutions for the time being, and this will go on so that it is simply not possible to pass. What has happened several times before that something has been voted on, this Parliament has been a dog that barked at a caravan, and the caravan has moved on, and in this case it will not happen again, because national security not only of Slovenia but also practically of all our allies has been compromised by this use. There will be sanctions and consistency. If not in our courts, in any special court or in an international tribunal. It's gone too far and too much evidence has been collected. There's someone here who's president of the Republic today and running for the next term, a problem. He acts as a favorite, polls show him he'll be re-elected. This will be decided by the elections and the elections can always be different from polls, but let's just say that this would happen and that next year, some of the countries where these investigations are now taking place, the matter will be concluded to have the international dimension it deserves – in what position will it be in and in what position will Slovenia be in? Maybe in the same way that Austria was with Kurt Waldheim when some things were discovered and then there was a lot of embarrassment. That is also how his thinking is in place. A thousand million reasons for reflection. Hold what was said at the beginning – at this point it is largely on the scale of the international reputation of Slovenia. Do not think, since POP TV has not reported this to be not known. In these months, I have been talking to many who have been asking about Europe and the world, and there is a lot of interest. After this phase of disbelief, if this is not possible, the thing is that a normal person is hard to believe until he is familiar with the facts, investigations are now, and the interest is that at some point it will be the thing that most people reading the media or watching the media in Europe will know. See, if, at that time, those responsible in this country – not those who should investigate themselves, but we know that they will not do so, but those who have to come to their seats next week – will not have any concrete results, it will only go down with Slovenia's reputation. Then you are making an illusion of how, in order to enforce a bad arbitration agreement, we will get no idea of what kind of allies, in which we refer to respect for the international agreements which we here have severely violated. If no one is responsible for this, if no one is behind bars, it will be considered that Slovenia is still in the hands of those who have done this, that it is not trustworthy. And a country that is not trustworthy has a very low specific weight and the national interests of this country suffer. As far as we're concerned, we're going to help those of you in power with all our strength to get results here. I will not talk about this, but we know why there has been a great deal of embarrassment today, why someone, some, has not reported any time to discuss, even though it is a topic that the National Assembly has not yet discussed. I have also seen that a group of Members have reported for five minutes, and I think this is the shortest possible time that anyone has reported for discussion so far — I have not seen this — and this has not been used up, so we do not expect much from this side. We know how embarrassing she is and why. We expect very much from the largest government party. It is up to you, here on the scale is your credibility and credibility of the state and probably in the entire mandate and never before in history has a party had such an opportunity in their hands to take a big step towards normal Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the final debater, mag. Dusan Verbic, allow me to give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Dark Staret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members! For the introduction, despite the fact that the color of my face is not part of the agenda, I would simply say, in the absence of confusion, that the reason for changing is in fact that the truth is important to me and when I listen to the untruths, the insults, the humiliations of people who are not even here, they do not have to defend themselves, and the explanations of some rules that are clearly contrary to the law, I am changing the color because it puts pressure on me; and I am a man who has feelings and I am not a robot. That's it, but it's less important. Given the content of the agenda, I would say the following. I think that this debate and debate today on these results between the two commissions and also the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, which have done important work both for the public interest and for our community, and I want the results to lead to what is the purpose and purpose; also in this sense, what is the function. Therefore, political responsibilities and possible needs to amend legislation so that such risks will be reduced in the future. Why has this not happened and not happened sufficiently in the past or now? Because of such performances and such, I think, inappropriate approaches that discourage people who want to change from doing so because they do not have confidence in us who are in responsible public functions and, of course, indirectly not in the authorities. I'm going to base this on a case that I can substance with my own experience. But priors, of course, you will reject this because you do not believe because you have prejudices, as soon as it is Old or Klemenčič, is unrealistic and so on. But interestingly, it's a paradox, as you've heard now, but at the same time the truth. Mr Janša, Mr Junior Member, who said certain things there, which in themselves show that he does not even know what he is saying, but if he knows, he does not understand. Both are unacceptable in such a responsible function when it comes to making laws for a community where everyone should live better together. I mean, when he was talking about the reasons why something was hiding, he was hiding about Whistleblowers — he doesn't even understand this institute. This is also why people do not want to report because they do not trust the system, because then, in fact, there are always retaliatory measures, because they simply deal with things that are not the subject, but those who want to reveal the truth, then they are belittled and belittled. Now I'm going specifically to what's on the agenda. Take a look at the KPK case. I like that, Mr Janša said nicely, you found out – I also went to read this part of the report, even in the part about the KPK, how we submitted the document. The one you called for questioning said that he had received it, that he had informed the leadership to whom he had given it and so on and what had happened. As far as the truth is concerned. Mr Möderndorfer has said very well, and this is also my value, and I believe that from all of you, or from most of you, also frankly, not only declaratory. Principles of legality, honesty, truthfulness are important values for all those who have responsible public functions and are entrusted to us. Even though this commission was not responsible for Mr Klemenčič's coming to the hearing before this committee, we came here to contribute, with our conduct, to the memory of what was going on at the time. We're here, the club that there was no legal authority! The KPK is neither a security service nor an intelligence service, nor does it have any powers of intelligence, and even less of any authority to carry out disguised measures, but Mr Klemenčič and Dara Stara, my little one, have come with the desire and ambition to contribute to the quality and credibility of the work. And look what happened. This Whistleblower, who came to the KPK, came after what I'm listening to today, but I've read it, and I'm going to tell you now how it's also, in fact, incompletely and partly unrealisticly displayed what you've figured out and came out of the documents yourself. I don't know why: whether you're not prepared or what you're doing, you're trying to discredit people. In fact, why? The KPK forwarded this document to the police in the way that many others did — Hypo Banka, Telekom, TEŠ and so on. I wish to refresh my memory that even more quality data, which is six, seven years away, after our conversation, I think it was July 14th; so, on July 14th, I asked the KPK to look into these matters, bank matters, which were many ten files, in order to refresh my memory, and to make more credible additions to what you wanted to hear. To this day, it has not been legally decided that I should look into matters! At the same time, I am in this report, where you received official answers from the KPK and from the police, and from the hearing of this gentleman, who was the head of the investigation at the NPU, I saw in this document. And then I remember that we at the KPK after receiving this report, not from Banka Slovenije, otherwise it is less important, but a document from Banka Slovenije containing some data that may have been – not misunderstood – but there were some criminals at the KPK, but we were able to identify signs of possible money laundering so that we could react so that we gave it to the competent authority. And when we say – whether Mr Klemenčič as former president or I – that the KPK is not responsible for detecting and investigating the crime of money laundering, it is responsible for detecting and investigating corruption, as defined by the Integrity Act, not corruption, as defined by the Penal Code. And I know you know that. But what am I trying to say? KPK, Mr Štefanec has told you that nothing is recorded, let alone any complaints and so on. You have found, I personally signed when I requested from the Office on the basis of those documents in June 2011, information on the possible suspicion of corruption of the management of the New Ljubljana Bank. I requested this from the Bank of Slovenia, and from someone else, and we also received official replies from them that they were investigating this, that they were aware of the fact that, in their work and within the framework of their powers, they did not detect any suspicion of corrupt behaviour by the management, but that they had detected the traps of money laundering and informed the police. And now this one, in fact, I'm not going to say the obvious, but I don't know if you've read well or if there's any other purpose. You refer to the police-KPK cooperation agreement and the law. Very inconclusive. The Criminal Procedure Act has 500 articles and this agreement, which was concluded before the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which entered into force in June 2010, is a tripartite agreement, since this agreement has been concluded by the previous Chamber with the police and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is a tripartite agreement, in no provision, and it is therefore specific to Article 3, which does not speak anywhere, in what form, only to be transmitted when the offence is suspected. While the subsequent law, which is the primary basis for our operation, speaks in Article 23, the KPK shall inform the police if it detects suspicion or signs of crime in its work. We have informed the police in different ways, and I have already explained this to you: in the form of documents, in the form of document surrender, we have subsequently established e-commerce and so on. In no part has any provision of the law or contract been breached. As a result, I reject this knowledge or the conclusion that we have violated anything. But that's irrelevant. More importantly, what is the content of these documents. Now, if you look at where this build-up has stopped in the detection bodies, the question of quality and the amount of data either from Sova, or from the office, or from the police, or not least from the KPK, is where they are primarily responsible for investigating the suspicions of money laundering. That's a key question. Even if this document from the KPK And today I listened to Mr Janša, he said that it was seen from these documents that you collected, which you apparently had more because you had jurisdiction, we did not have it for money laundering to stop the commission to these people. In that document we received from Whistleblower, this is a document by Banka Slovenije, it was written to reduce their commission. So you figured out something more and something else. And now we get to read in that document that we had, one, and this Whistleblower came to us because of what I said before, because he simply estimated that what was supposed to happen by law with regard to detection and prevention was not happening. He did not come at the time of 2008 until 2011, when this was happening in these banks, as well as in the police and so on, but after some people came, when we obviously enjoyed some trust, they brought it. We have done our business properly and professionally. Like I said, Telekom, Hypo, not to mention how many cases, because they haven't seen the light of the world yet, and we're not talking about them, but some other. And I believe that the authorities are doing their best, according to a priority list, I don't know what, but a lot of things have been and have been recorded and so far I haven't been able to get this data from KPC to show you how this recording has been and so on. As you can see, it was because you received the documents. We have also tried what was our responsibility, but we have received credible information that these signs of corruption are not. That's why it's hard for me to accept such evidence when it comes to the fact, from the mouth of a man who had a minister, but that's what I said yesterday, 2012 and March, when you get from a qualified foreign authority the Ministry of Justice or your minister in your government that it's a serious charge – a qualified body, a judicial body – fraud, concealment of money laundering, embezzlement, and the transactions are listed over 500 thousand and so on. It was in your government's department that you've been running for six months, and I'm surprised you don't know anything about it, and I'm surprised it's not in any report. Because Mr Grims was able to know that, too, because we provided this information to Mr Logar or his commission a few months ago. And that's not what this is about. As a result, I find it somewhat questionable how comprehensively, you have fully identified this actual state of affairs and possible responsibility, politically, which is the Minister, the Prime Minister and so on. And there was no SNAV called in and so on. I don't know why not, but these are the facts. You may be able to say it yourself or answer it yourself. I find it really difficult to accept such an impression that they do not have any basis in reality, but are obviously motivated only by some names, not data. You like to speak very highly of the Minister of Justice, and I am not his lawyer or his advocate, I am just a man who has the privilege or the opportunity to work with him, as well as with anyone else, including Mr Rupnik. For the intermezza, when you said that he told you that he had crazy pressures as Director of Owl that he had to step down from the then Prime Minister. I was his deputy at the time, and I know what the contents and the reasons for the pressure were, and I know why they gave up. There's no connection to this story! That story is completely different, and it'll come out to the public sometime. I wanted to bring her to the KNOVS on official, legitimate routes, and none of them were interested. None! But we know who led the KNOVS. If I were to think on your methodology, I'm hypothetically speaking because I believe you simply couldn't understand the depths of it. This KNOVS, which is usually run by the opposition and you yourself mentioned that you received a report from Sova in one sentence, could make an entire treaty a doctorate, how can it be that qualified intelligence supervisors do not recognize such a mega matter. Yes, there was one sentence and the matter is over for you! This is the method by which you tell us on KPK that we have not done our job. I tell you that in this case and similar, because there are four others, and I will not mention them now, we worked with the Anti-Money Laundering Office at the time. We changed the law because we didn't get the data, not because they couldn't give it to us, because the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering did not allow them to change or mediate this information on the basis of the ZIntPK, the Integrity Act. We have changed the law and this in June 2011 and this Parliament has adopted a law so that we can essentially get the data from them in a legal way to carry out our homework and mission. As I saw there after those – now after memory – documents, because I simply do not get them from the KPK, nor as information of a public character in this part, which they are, I simply think it was during this period. Sometime in June, these responses were also from the Anti-Money Laundering Office and I am disturbed by the fact that the KPK would keep this quiet, that you would keep it quiet, that we were active and wanted to contribute within our jurisdiction because we believe in legality. This is an essential element of the rule of law and the rule of law, because you cannot judge now and now. However, you have a legitimate — and I am glad — active role in encouraging this country to do our homework. Disclosure and prosecution authorities in this case. Thus the matter is simply difficult to accept and then Mr Janša always says how to trust one minister who did such things in secret. What were we hiding? We've done what we can, and more to make things clear. There are a lot of other things that are out there, and I hope they come up with some epilogue in the proceedings. I can tell you one more experience, and I will be aware that the person sitting here on this side is the same NPU, when you knew it, the Minister was Mr. Gorenak, the Plitcanic was the Justice Minister, you were the Prime Minister of the Government. We have also informed the NPU of some suspected crimes and we have received from the NPU a request that we collect notices and do what we are not responsible for and only they can do after the CAP. There are only two options; whether they thought we were so naive that we would make such a mistake, or they were so ignorant that they did not do their work for which they were paid. It's both unacceptable. Unprofessional. All these things will be published by me on one occasion, also documented, because it is difficult for me to hear that those we have worked hard to do under the law within the limits of jurisdiction, you are showing them as if we have done nothing and we have conspired. Now I'm just waiting for you to discover an account where I have a million dollars. And you're going to add, and that's probably Irangate's affair. For today, I am myself, so that I will be substanceized to see how unproductive that is, in essence, against our role and yours, which we have together in this community. Mr Janša violated 86 laws following the findings of the Court of Auditors, 62 sub-laws, one collective agreement. The CAP, which we have adopted here this week, you have attacked with falsehoods to interfere, I don't know, with secret entrances to the apartment and so on. The Constitutional Court is the Law on Electronic Communications, which your coalition under the leadership of your party and this Parliament has adopted, because of the invasive interference in mass traffic data violations, communication privacy. You personally signed a government regulation that, despite several warnings from the Court of Auditors, directly infringed the Constitution and the law when you made it illegal to remove the mandatory recording of the financial assets of the real municipalities and the state; therefore, without appreciation, the Director may sell the property, I do not know, the institution or one of the state companies. It's a risk to taxpayers because it's about these things. You signed one in 2007 and in 2006 Mr Beast, when you were obviously absent as Prime Minister of the Government. But it was your government. And these are specific cases. I'm telling you that you're telling me that we're doing illegal, unfair work, that I'm substanceizing you, that you've violated the Constitution directly and so on. That makes it hard for me to listen, and that sometimes makes me change my color because I'm human. Moreover, this is totally infertile, unproductive in the context of this debate and the functions of this report. As far as this is concerned, I would like, and also call on the future commission, that I am invited and that I will participate to the extent possible in that function and say everything. I hope that by then I will also have the information from the Commission on what the KPC was doing and what was not done. And it saddens me that you also did not tell me that at the hearing this gentleman said that he had received documents from Staret, that he had given them to a competent person who had found that he was working “case”, that he had introduced the leadership and so on. And that's all that matters. And you make a whole treaty, whether we gave it right or wrong. We gave it right and right. And I also ask you, if you insist on adopting the report, to specify which article of the CAP and which article of this agreement you are referring to, we have violated. I don't know why you found that out. This is unacceptable to me, and I think I have the right, because here you are somehow demeaning our work, our efforts to make matters right and, as effectively as possible, in accordance with the law. And we changed the law back then. I will also tell you today, perhaps the public is not known, because there may also be a new law on integrity. We then made 12 proposals to the institutes to strengthen the law in order for this institution to be effective. But none of those people are now appearing in public as the reason that something can't be done legally right now. Everything can be done legally. At the time, marriages were good, and now they are good, but they can be even better. Our key idea was that, for reasons of the rule of law, the Institute would have legalized the confidence-building of people in the institution so that they could be detailed prosecutors, who could also be linked directly to the KPK, in order to speed up the proceedings. Because there were a lot of complaints, I announced, about a banking case I told you, including Mr Logar knows, we talked about, 40, 50 things we gave very substance, with quality official documents obtained from individual commercial banks. And the trials are going on. We have said that it would be very good for this country, that if something is very well-founded, substanceized with documents to go into a procedure immediately with a qualified authority, it is the prosecution, which is the law enforcement body. Not that I don't know how long it's been going on, but there's an objective reason why there won't be a misunderstanding. But it was an idea. It is said that we would also make an institute that would contribute to a more efficient functioning. And today listen to that we are the ones who are part of the game Please! [[…]] It's an insult to me. As a result, I felt the need to respond in this way also in the context of considering whether you are putting the matter to the public in its entirety or to complement it accordingly, so that your findings will be as credible and complete as possible. That's what I've got for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you, Vice President. It is not true what the Secretary of State said in the introduction that I did not read or understand the matter and so on. I read all the stuff down in the bunker. Moreover, I was there when the hearings were held. Just the gentleman you mentioned that you handed him the papers or someone who got those papers then – do you know what he said at the hearing? If I had the original paper on the official route, as Mr Stare had it, if things weren't covered, we would have done things differently than we did when we didn't take these things seriously. Here's your responsibility. Don't you dare say that I didn't read it or that I don't understand it, because obviously we all don't understand it here. See point 6 of the conclusions adopted unanimously. Obviously, we don't all understand the Members and Members of Parliament. You're the only one who understands. How do you understand things, but you've proved them many times. Let me just remind you, for example, of Roc Zavbi, when you swore before Parliament that there was no need to change the Penal Code because we have everything criminalized. A terrorist walks our country, and then the Italians have to arrest him or us on their proposal. It's not about who read anything, it's about who didn't. As I told you yesterday, if he holds what we read, and if he holds the testimony of a gentleman who said that the procedure would begin, if you would have given the documents away, then I will now say out loud what I said yesterday. We should arrest you as soon as you step out of the hall and take you to the hearing what your role is in this process.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Stara, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you. I think by what you say, you tell yourself the most about yourself and I'll just say the following. What we have claimed, personally and on behalf of the Government, about the Penal Code, is exactly what we have claimed. A man was convicted there of a crime that was also criminalized in our country. The only difference was that our law enforcement authorities obviously didn't have enough evidence and they had it there. There's no difference. The punishments with the same signs in Italy as here were then and now. Just so you know, it's right to know that you don't get people who listen to you wrong. But as far as adaptation is concerned, as you say, it sounds so criminal to protect the applicant. This document was a document of the Bank of Slovenia. Banka Slovenije is the supervisor of commercial banks and, within its competence, has made a supervisory finding and recommended that matters be realised or corrected. Any official document of the public authority, even if it is a sui generis, such as the Bank of Slovenia, shall have the head and so on and the signatory of the responsible person or chairman, the Vice-Governor or the authorised person for any task. Then someone gets this document to execute it. He gets it in Banka Slovenije and gets it in a commercial bank or with the debtor he refers to. People have different habits. Some actually write something in a document they get to process, one label something, and so on. These were the things that were hidden so that the basis of this would not be identified who was the person who had access to this document that this Whistleblower brought to the KPK. This is solely for the protection of the applicant. I'll tell you something else, you won't have to read. After that and after the present law, the KPC also has the power to assess whether the criminal procedure or the pre-trial procedure would clearly reveal the identity of the applicant, it could be considered that this matter is not to be referred forward. Even if this notifier were the relevant evidence source for the evidence in order to prove the existence of this crime and the liability of the perpetrator. That's his jurisdiction, too. We've had some cases where we indirectly, through the D.A., did things so that no direct contact could occur. This was the case when a convicted state prosecutor blackmailed and wanted bribes from a person charged with 40 grand. In this case, Whistleblower – no one knows who he is today, and so it is, this institution is meant to do so – was simply so important that he was able to carry it out and we did it with it. The same was the head of the investigation who led the case, and we made a case outside the official premises. A man is already convicted today, and he is no longer a good prosecutor. Please look at things so you can understand them. I understand your legitimate political interest to impress through your filters, to communicate only what suits you, but be at least to this extent correct to respect the applicable legal order in the Republic of Slovenia, which expresses public interest. All within the legal framework. And here I think my expectations are justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic, the replica? There's no replica to the replica. [[advertising from the hall]] He was discussing it. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President. For the last time, because I am repeating this twice or three times now, I will not again, because if I have to do it the fourth time, the fifth time, it means that Mr Stare has no problem only with the pressure, but with something else. Point six, Mr. Stare, you obviously didn't read it. I didn't say you did it. Members and Members of Parliament unanimously confirmed the report, where we note the errors made by the KPC. Not the SDS, but the members of the National Assembly, we all supported it and wrote: “Before that, the document was organised...” No setup, it says inside, you've arranged the document [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u31	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Finally. Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State, Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Same composition as yesterday. And when I look in the same room. In my debate, I will stick to the agenda items, the report of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services led by the Mag. Branko Grimes, related to this report. Initially, I must admit that this report, as did Dr Logar yesterday, should be commended for its approach as well as for the product itself. Perhaps to the surprise of everyone here today I am predicting that on Tuesday I will support both reports. Before I go any further, allow me to step back a little bit, for I have a few words to give to the esteemed John Janša. You know, now, after all this time in this National Assembly, and I'm kind of gonna be a little bit too, given that it's all been shown that the Modern Center Party won the election with, I'm gonna let myself say, three picks. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I challenge these statements on my behalf and on behalf of all my Members, we call ourselves colleagues and colleagues of the SMC Group. To prove that I can safely claim that this is not true for my colleagues, colleagues in the parliamentary group, I will tell you my case which took place before the elections last week. In my constituency, where it makes sense that there are certain approaches that each candidate and political party have, we have, too, by the way of the Panamanian. You know, triangles. And look at the fraction, in the last week it happened that the simple SMC panes were two hours after they were placed, they were crushed, and the rest were primarily yours. And with perseverance, if I may say so, I've been in the field every few hours and set myself up. This was also the approach of my colleagues and colleagues. For this reason, I have allowed myself to comment on the fact that, for the SMC Group, it is certain that no election has been bought, that we have won. So much for that. As far as the agenda is concerned. Yesterday, when I discussed it, I must admit that, in my debate, I used the expression of an indication in relation to all the findings of the banking parliamentary commission, and today also of these commissions. Today, however, I am changing, and I can certainly say that these are well-known facts. That is why I really expect a shift in the direction, if we are now talking here about the goals of the banking parliamentary commission, that this is a determination of political responsibility. Yesterday I also allowed myself to ask in public who in 26 years had received any political responsibility from such addresses, and I am also today repeating the material, criminal, compensation responsibilities of the holders of public powers. As a result, it is my expectation that such findings and discussions will finally lead to this, perhaps the time has come for something to start happening here. And in this work, to conclude something, this so-called responsibility, yes, is political, but I must admit that my focus is significantly more on the responsibility of carriers, in this case these so-called public powers of state-owned companies, specifically the New Ljubljana Bank and certainly also the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Banking Regulator. For they are those who are in this particular matter of Farrokh, who has now occupied us in these two days. And there's more to it than that. That is why I am truly joining all those who in recent times in the media have seen that, in developed European democracies, especially those referring here to France and England, the term has been used and today I will use a foreigner who is generally wrong to be used here, a deep state, a deep state. I think all those who face this a little bit in one way or another are well aware of what it means. In view of the fact that basic activities were primarily linked to the so-called banking business here, the transaction, foreign exchange, is the final cash transaction. And let us pour ourselves some pure wine, for any such transport business that the bank that is registered carries out, is entitled to charge the commission for such transactions. And even in this case. I am sure that the commission, in accordance with all internal rules, has also been made in some context. If the commission has not also been charged to the party, Commissioner, you know, the fact is that it is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the bank's administration. If the bank's management has decided not to charge an enormous amount for the commission, this is legitimate. The other thing is what the responsible owner does, because that means a reduction in profits. Finally, we are back at the state-owned bank, and this is the New Ljubljana Bank. This would no longer be the case, since there will certainly be an opportunity in other debates, perhaps on this subject. What is of concern to us, the representatives of the legislative branch of government, and should also be concerned about the executive branch of government, because the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which we know is one of the key segments of each government, but it is that knowledge that I somehow ordered yesterday, and today I am only confirming or attaching to that thesis. Clearly, in those years, banking regulators and the Anti-Money Office had double criteria. One is the criteria for so-called privately owned banks with the responsible owner and the other is the state-owned banks. I can't explain anything else, because the procedures to detect money laundering prevention, as I mentioned yesterday, have a good legal basis. All banks, regardless of ownership, regardless of the liability of the owners, also have very well-ordered internal rules, which are consistently held by bank officials to be genuinely strict, unless otherwise directed by the hierarchy. That's why my attitude is the same all the time. We cannot literally blame the office, which is directly a lower operator, but it is the responsibility of the management, the supervisory board and, at the end of the day, the owner, if he is responsible. I'm sure he doesn't care what's going on. In particular, if it is established, and this is the banking investigative commission, it has been very clear that all the signs and findings under internal rules, internal internal audit acts, have been found to be root irregularities. Because in these processes, applying to the Anti-Money Laundering Office simply did not respect the rules, not the law and not the internal act. Unfortunately for the legislative and executive branch, however, it is frightening that the Office, which is established solely for this purpose, has failed to carry out its task. That's what we have to worry about. Yesterday I also made it very clear whether today anyone knows how many Farrokh cases are still at the New Ljubljana Bank in Abank or that bank that was in state ownership at the time and had a licence to carry out foreign payment transactions. And that's scary. For this reason, I welcome the activities concerning the fact that there has been any discovery through the banking parliamentary commission of inquiry. The fact that the law enforcement authorities, when it was announced whether the other institutions, with the KPK, did not carry out those necessary if not ordinary, at least more careful activities, but I have to join all the debaters here so that this should not happen. Why am I stressing that all responsibility in such matters is on the side of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank? Because we are all very aware of something, society, in this case the bank is only set up to generate profit. In the bank, as you know, nothing is free. And it's shocking for the board to give up some commission. It's even more shocking for a reason to give up a commission. It is also shocking to find out in these procedures how this money has been distributed and the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia deal with companies, banks that have responsible owners and are extremely consistent there. But where there is literally money flow, illegal business, everyone is silent. That is why I am concluding this part of the debate in anticipation, a debate is being held today and yesterday, but perhaps we can be optimistic that there will be some movement in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, which will be followed by a representative of the Government and of the proposer. Mr. Boštjan Šefic, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I would not use this time of mys to argue with some of the arguments that were here in the debate, because I do not think that this is essential. The findings presented by the two Commissions, including the Commission for the supervision of the work of the intelligence and security services, and some of the facts identified by the Commission and some of the indications that were in this debate today were essential. I think this is already the basis for this moment for our further activities, which I mentioned yesterday, to see what was actually happening. That we should also conclude and take appropriate measures and, in particular, guides for further work, so that some of the weaknesses that have been in the past may not be repeated. This is the key, and the Ministry of the Interior is also focused on this, and all of these elements and everything that has happened and has been linked to the police will also be thoroughly examined. But it is true, and I must point out this once again, that we have quite a few problems in this, because the Ministry is extremely limited in its powers and we can only analyse and then act to a certain extent. The second point is what has been pointed out today, namely, further activities. I can say that all police activities in this regard are taking place intensively. As Secretary of State himself, and this is understandable and also in accordance with the legislation, we are not exactly informed by the forecasting procedure what is going on. It's a police matter. However, I can assure you that this intensity of work is extremely high and that the direction of the Minister is also quite clear, that banking crime and everything that is going on in this regard is an absolute priority for the police as a whole and especially for the National Investigation Office. I am sincerely convinced that this matter will be investigated and that all the facts in this regard will be established and that further procedures may be followed on this basis. Even according to the information I have, this cooperation with other competent authorities in Slovenia is good. I think it is good, however, that this major part of the debate on both items of the agenda has been made public, that the public is also aware of some elements that have not been fully clear, because I think it is in the interest of all of us. Once again, by the Ministry of the Interior, it has ensured that the things we need to do will be done and that we will take appropriate action on the basis of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u35	Here you go, Secretary of State Darko Stara.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I would like to say that, at the Ministry of Justice, we have taken an immediate action in relation to the findings and, in cooperation with the Logar Commission, an internal organisational measure can no longer take place since then, since it is a general indication that the Ministry, in the context of the intervention of international criminal assistance in cases, as described earlier, must always inform the State Prosecutor's Office. The State Prosecutor shall be the body representing the public interest expressed by the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia and shall be solely responsible for this. Therefore, it is right that he is informed of these matters. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u38	I am always happy when I find the right interlocutor, and I will continue where in my excellent address Mr Verbič has finished – on the question of responsibility. The whole story of exposing money laundering to one billion for the purposes of proliferation and financing of terrorism in the New Ljubljana Bank will have its meaning and an appropriate epilogue only if this story of responsibility becomes at the end of this story. We need to ask ourselves what our institutions were doing. Did we have a money-laundering office or did we have a money-laundering office? By the way, he identified himself as the first one, in English. We have to ask ourselves how it is possible that the police, contrary to the law of the procedure, do not end the prosecution's report when it comes to determining the suspicion of crime of one billion. And after a few years of virtually not significantly different legislation, not significantly different staffing composition even, in the same country continues the same procedures. Again. All that has happened in the meantime is that we have brought these matters to the attention of the public and that we have also informed the representatives of the police at the meeting of my commission on the matter with some kind words. Sometimes a method is used that I call a little jokingly rocketizing a chicken. If you drop one rocket into a black chicken coop, the chickens fly out alone and cluck out loud, and then you know exactly what was in there. The fact is that this deep country Mr Verbic was talking about is acting like a huge chicken. Disclosure of money laundering, documentation in this regard, and the fact in this regard worked like this rocket. And some of them volunteered on their own. Today we heard a lot of sharp words about why you invited some to talk. Look, just one case. None of us originally intended to follow the Minister of Justice. However, the Minister of Justice went to a press conference in mid-June and himself announced that they had filed a criminal complaint on this case since the KPK was involved. We asked KPK if they had any documentation on this, and I can give you correspondence. The answer was no. We've done it twice. Then we asked the police, as well as a negative answer. And then, and to clear this up, we invited Mr. Klemenčič to a conversation. However, since Mr Klemenčič was implicit at first and later explicitly ad persons also appointed Mr Staret, we also invited Mr Staret. That's why you were invited to talk, not because someone would have anything ahead of you. These statements, this press conference, also on the Minister's television, were the reason for this discussion. On the basis of the documents we obtained at the time and later, we have drawn conclusions based on correspondence with the KPK. The conclusions shall cover the facts for which each of the members of the Commission stands and which may also be duly documented. If you have any comments on this, there will therefore be plenty of room to clear up. What I started with is the final message. This story must ultimately become a story of responsibility. Only in this case is Slovenia a democratic state. The law enforcement authorities, with full responsibility to request this from them as President of the Commission and as a Member, must re-examine the whole story from the first to the last line, find that if, when, how, and who committed the violation of the law, or if it is an individual or an institution, if someone left the obligation and people must be held accountable for every violation of the law before a court. And the court must decide within a reasonable time. It's got to be. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether there is any further interest in the debate. If this is an interest, please sign in. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. No amendments to the proposal were tabled. The National Assembly will vote on the proposal for a decision on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the eve of a bill amending the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration mag. Tanya Rich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 9 February 2017, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia approved the final report of the Crisis Management and Management System in the Republic of Slovenia. On this confirmation of the final report of the project, the Ministry of Public Administration ordered that, in accordance with the starting points prepared by the working group, a draft amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should also be prepared within three months. The amendment of the Act amends Article 20 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which governs the National Security Council. The proposed amendment to the law is aimed at the organisation of crisis management and governance. The draft law in the new Article 20 regulates bodies which, in a complex crisis in support of the Government, provide a function of consultation, coordination, monitoring of the situation, information and communication support and analysis and prediction. This is based on the present bodies and only proposes to connect them and upgrade them. These are the National Security Council, the Secretariat of the National Security Council, the National Centre for Crisis Management and the Interdepartmental Analysis Group, which are linked to organisational crisis management and management. In addition, a new body is now linked to the organisation of crisis management and management, an operational group of the National Security Council Secretariat, which, before, during and after a complex crisis, works in support of the National Security Council Secretariat. The organisation of crisis management and management is intended to ensure the link and coordination between ministries, national security subsystems, government services and other bodies responding to complex crises. The proposed regulation brings greater coherence and more cost-effective use of human material resources, faster and more effective action, and thus reducing the consequences of complex crises on the population and infrastructure. In particular, the draft law defines a complex crisis, which is essential for the establishment of a crisis management and management system and its placement in other regulatory administrative acts. A prerequisite for the design and effective functioning of the crisis management system is precisely the definition of a crisis that has passed the traditional framework, covering a number of non-military forms and dimensions. In the view of the Government, the area of crisis management and governance is so important that it must be regulated by law that it must be included in the Proposal for a Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not in other acts that regulate only part of the operational segment of crisis management and management. In the light of what has been explained, the Government proposes that the proposed law be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State, nice to meet you. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at the 38th meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. 9. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. In a supplementary explanation, the State Secretary explained that in February 2017 the Government confirmed the final P7 project report, namely the crisis management and management system in the Republic of Slovenia. Upon confirmation, the Government ordered the Ministry of Public Administration to prepare a proposal for a law amending the Government Act. He explained that Article 20 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which governs the National Security Council, is being amended and the purpose of the bill is to organise crisis management and management. The bill regulates bodies operating in a complex crisis. The proposed regulation brings greater coherence between the ministries and national security system subsystems, more cost-effective use of human and material resources, faster and more effective action and thus reducing the consequences of crises, both for the population and for infrastructure. The bill specifically defines a complex crisis. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence added that past research has shown shortcomings in crisis management and that the bill also addresses them. In the presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service raised the question whether that substance actually required legal standardisation and, in parallel, whether, from a systemic point of view, it was appropriate that the matter concerned was included in this law, which is the law of an organisational nature. The Commission's opinion on State regulation was presented by the state councilor, who said that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, the representative of the left delegation said and drew attention to the problem of coordination between the ministries. He added that, on the basis of the definition of a complex crisis contained in the bill, Slovenia has been in a permanent crisis for at least twenty years. Members of the SMC Group drew attention to the need for the separation of terms in the area of crisis, complex crisis and state of emergency. In recent crises, the problem of coordination and communication between actors has emerged in the wake of the aggression and the migration crisis. In both cases, we could talk about a complex crisis and express our conviction that effective and coordinated action in such situations is essential. The SD MP said that the proposal for a law brought an appropriate novelty to the organisation of the operational group. Representatives of the SDS Group stressed their opposition to the bill. They felt that the adoption of the bill was not necessary, as the system in case of crises would not work any better. The representative of the New Slovenia Group, however, stated that the proposal for a law was not necessary and therefore did not support it. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We therefore have before us a proposal for a Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia amending the provision governing the National Security Council and the purpose of the organisation of crisis management and management. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not believe that such a law is necessary, since it is not a matter of the substance of the law. Such a system in the event of crises or crises will not work any better due to the adoption of this law. The bill introduces organisational provisions, namely matter which, in our view, does not belong in law, as we have also pointed out in the Committee on Home Affairs. This was also highlighted in its opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which raised the question whether that matter actually required legal standardisation. In our view, it would be significantly better for the Government to organise activities in such a way that the functioning of the authorities in the composition of the Government or the various coordinations will be smooth and effective when this is most necessary, as crisis situations certainly are. We will vote against the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because, as has already been said, it is the organisation's business in the event of crises and otherwise does not belong to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u46	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Government! Let me briefly present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law amending the Government Act. As explained by the Government's representatives on the working body, the proposal for a law to be dealt with should be adopted because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia approved the final P7 report on 9 February 2017, namely the Crisis Management and Management System of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the Government ordered the Ministry of Public Administration to prepare, in accordance with its starting points within three months, a draft amendment to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and today we have it on the parliamentary benches. What are the essential changes in the law? The bill in the new Article 20 regulates bodies which in the so-called complex crisis in support of the Government provide a function of consultation, coordination, monitoring of the situation, information and communication support and analysis and forecasting. This is a matter of upgrading and integrating existing bodies, namely the National Security Council, the National Security Council Secretariat, the National Crisis Management Centre and the Interdepartmental Analysis Group, which are linked to the organisation of crisis management and management. An additional operational group of the Secretariat of the National Security Council, which, prior to, during and after a complex crisis, works in support of the National Security Council Secretariat, is further organised here. The proposal was prepared professionally, through a review of past research, a review of analyses of some exercises and past natural disasters, a review of crisis management and management systems in selected countries and interviews of security and defence experts, state secretaries at all ministries and representatives of some other organisations. It is everyone and past research that has shown shortcomings in our system of crisis management, and it has already been stated in the Resolution of the National Security Strategy 2001 that a process of integrated crisis management needs to be put in place. As Dr. Malešič said in 2014, the head of the Ljubljana Faculty of Social Sciences and Crisis Management and Management and Security Policy Defence Research Centre is needed in the event of major crises such as those of 2014 in case of greed, the coordination of individual departments, which are relatively well organised, is quite successful. As he says, there is too much gardening between the departments, even within them, and too little cooperation already in the preparatory phase, that is, planning and exercise, and thus also in responding to the crisis. Dr Malesič therefore suggested that the structure of the national security system should be linked to the crisis management and management model, that traditional divisions between the civilian, military and police areas should be exceeded, that the regulatory basis for the functioning of the system should be borrowed, and that a body should be set up at the level of the Government to coordinate the activities of crisis management and management actors, namely the Slovenian Armed Forces, Civil Defence and Disaster Protection. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the regime brings a greater link between the ministries and subsystems of the national security system, faster and more effective action and thus reducing the consequences of complex crises both for the population and for infrastructure and the more cost-effective use of human and material resources. Let me remind you of the disaster in the case of the year 2014, which affected a large part of Slovenia and caused about 200 million damage in the forests when it came to a crisis that the individual ministry or system of protection and rescue could not manage itself, so other state and non-governmental structures and new organisations had to be included. This has created a problem of governance and coordination. The experience of this ice catch has shown, like the analysis of some other accidents, that our national security system is not working well in such crises. That is why we have a bill on the table today that will allow crisis management and governance, which will provide the decision-making body with urgent input information while at the same time harmonising the implementation of government decisions. In the Group of Members, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary, Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a amendment to the Government Act, which infringes Article 20, which governs the National Security Council or merely states that the Government has the National Security Council as its consultative and coordinating body for defence, security, security and resolution and other matters of national security. Following a review of the actual state of play, research and experience, this system has not been shown to be optimal and, on the basis of these findings, the proposed solution has emerged. The proposed solution in the new Article 20 is therefore aimed at a more effective crisis management and management organisation. The organisation of crisis management and management aims to ensure more effective integration and coordination between ministries, national security sub-systems, government services and other bodies responding to complex crises. This link needs to be effective and fast, as this is the only way to reduce the impact on people and infrastructure. This is a complex crisis involving events that one ministry or national security system subsystem cannot handle on its own. Experience with the acorn and mass migration of migrants across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia has shown that it is necessary to clearly identify who, when and how to take on the coordination of rescue and field work. However, we cannot and must not compare a complex crisis with a state of war and emergency as defined in Article 92 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we understand the sectoral crisis as a crisis or a natural or other minor accident, or when an accident can be handled by a single ministry or subsystem and there is no need for coordination with other services. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new law, desiring to regulate the system of resolution of complex and sectoral crises. Its effectiveness is checked only in exercises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u50	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we have the feeling that our government is constantly trying to legislate everything that it cannot or cannot apply in practice. As an example of a complex crisis, the government cites the case of the aggressors in 2014 and the migrant crisis. This has been going on for two years. Even after three years, the effects of pharynx have not been remedied. Is this really the fault of poor governance and coordination between individual ministries and other organisations? What would be different in these two cases if we already knew the definition of a complex crisis? Respected government and coalition MPs, both cases are resolved with a clear objective and decisive swift action. Without a new definition of a complex crisis and amending this law, we need only awareness of the most important values of our country and its citizens, and to set priorities, good organisation of work and governance, and the responsibility of all who are given powers of action by the law in force. In Nova Slovenija, we are convinced that today's proposal does not bring any added value to us, as the current legislation allows for rapid and effective crisis management. On the contrary, a vague gap at the normative level between the complex crisis and the state of emergency, as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, may result in a complex crisis actually becoming a state of emergency. The serious threat to fundamental social values, with this threat levelling, is, in our view, nothing more than a state of emergency, since it is a threat to the existence of a country. It is a necessity to maintain independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity of the country, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, which requires the highest level of response. The proposed amendment represents only a way of organising the Government internally and therefore does not fall under the Government Act, which is also recalled in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The new operational group of the National Security Council Secretariat, which will prepare education and exercises, will not help to address any crisis more effectively. The proposaler offers us a justification that past research has shown shortcomings in the functioning of the crisis management system. And that's true? However, these findings do not offer a clear answer, which shortcomings in particular. And even less so, we know the answer to what is behind these shortcomings. In New Slovenia we are convinced that with some artistic and purely pianist moves in the practice of crisis resolution, even complex ones, it will not be any better and more effective, so we will oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President. The new Government Act is nothing more than an unfortunate government response to an unfortunate response to an accident in Kemis. In the event of an accident, the government did not react in time, which at once no one knew, nor who was responsible for what or what was needed at all. The new Government Act is now trying to show that the reason for the confusion was bad legislation and that the organisation of crisis management and governance in the management of complex crises should be regulated in some law, if we are talking about a complex crisis. The key complex crisis we have in this society is the policy crisis. And in a marriage like this, one wonders if there's even a pilot on the plane. The law is about something that is a matter of the internal organization of the government. The Secretariat shall be given more important tasks than the National Security Council itself. The provisions are vague, flawed, and a complex crisis is defined so that any future government from the nightmare can find it anywhere and at any time. All of this is also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service, but of course the coalitions do not care. Just as the government failed to act in the case of Kemis, so it failed by this law and smoothly overlooked the heart of the problem. The malnutrition of the civil protection part of the MORS, the problem faced by professional firefighters, poor, outdated equipment and financial malnutrition, these are problems that we should solve, not that both the government and the coalition deal with unnecessary laws and each month invent a new definition of changed situations, crises, emergency situations, etc. In this mandate, you intimidate people in all areas. Instead of regulating the situation in the civilian part of the MORS, for example, you will buy EUR 200 million of scrap metal. Instead of checking the Kemis story to see if we have proper control over the provision and compliance with environmental standards, you will attribute the provisions of the sub-laws to the Government Act. This is the crisis we are facing. Good three years of policy crisis, new SMC policy crisis. We are clearly opposed to such a policy in Levica, and since the most beautiful reflection of this policy is precisely the novelty of the Government Act, we will also oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u54	Your Honor! The proposed amendment to the law is aimed at organising crisis management and governance to support the government in managing complex crises. The established crisis management and management system must be continuously adapted and upgraded due to the nature of the crises. In crisis situations, each ministry is responsible for carrying out tasks in its field, and for advising, coordinating activities, information and communication and professional and analytical support has been established by the Government to establish certain bodies such as the National Security Council, the Secretariat of the National Security Council, the National Centre for Crisis Management and the Inter-Resort Analysis Group. Some crisis management and management functions are thus provided at government level, but coordination between crisis response and all actors involved and some other functions are not ensured, as past research and, unfortunately, experience have also shown. Research on crisis management and governance in 2005 and 2010 also identified the potential for the transformation of the National Security Council and the Secretariat of the National Security Council. That coordination in complex crises at national level is more appropriate at a different level, especially when it comes to long-term complex crises, as ministries still have to carry out their tasks continuously despite the complex crisis, the migration crisis has shown. The task that the Government can entrust to the National Security Council Secretariat in a complex crisis is to coordinate the operation or response of ministries, government services and national security subsystems to a complex crisis. At the same time, the Secretariat may prepare proposals for measures to respond to the complex crisis, which the Government then decides on. The National Security Council in a complex crisis, however, retains its advisory role, advises on other issues of national security, including crisis management and governance. It also reviews and complements the measures proposed by the Government in the complex crisis. It is also worth mentioning that the upgrade of the national security system also provides for a resolution on the 2010 national security strategy. The Government has therefore classified the establishment of a comprehensive crisis management and governance system at national level as one of its priorities or projects in the coalition agreement. This government is therefore the first to meet the objectives or upgrade the crisis management system after seven years of adoption of the resolution, or to do so after 12 years of the first survey. In addition to the 2015 crisis migrant mentioned above, mention is made of 2014 when national security slowed down. We turned out to be unprepared for this kind of natural disaster. It also showed that it was necessary to activate professional and, in particular, voluntary firefighters, members of civil protection and other voluntary and professional rescue services, the Slovenian Armed Forces, the police, public companies and other services and public authorities, as well as numerous ministries and other humanitarian and voluntary NGOs, as well as assistance from abroad. It has been shown that we do not have common arrangements designed to address and respond to complex crises. The current system of planning, except in the field of defence and protection against natural disasters, is materially designed and does not have common elements and objectives. The amendment of the law will therefore define the role of the National Security Council, the Secretariat of the National Security Council, the operational groups of the Secretariat of the National Security Council, the National Crisis Management Centre and the Interdepartmental Analytical Group and the concept of a complex crisis. With regard to the concept of a complex crisis, it is worth noting that the complex crisis is a high level of threat to the fundamental values of the Republic of Slovenia, which is clearly reflected in the definition. However, it is not a threat to the very existence of a country in which a state of emergency should be declared or a military attack against a country in which a state of war should be declared. We are therefore separating two types of crises, namely the sectoral crises, including natural and other disasters, the responses being coordinated by a single sector, and complex crises where responses are coordinated by the Government. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal for a law, because we believe that the proposed crisis management and management regime allows for a planned, organised and more efficient response to complex crises, but we also provide a uniform framework for the functioning of the Government and a more rational use of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 21st item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law amending the law on the financing of municipalities. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Mag. Tanya Rich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken into account multi-annual impact analyses when defining the text of the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The Law on Community Financing also followed the Constitutional Court’s decision of November 2016 and the revision of the appropriate expenditure of the Court of Auditors of June 2017. The proposed amendments to the Community Financing Act provide for a more precise method of determining the average amount by taking into account the macroeconomic or public financial situation, the so-called fiscal rule, establishing undue costs that are not taken into account in the calculation of the average, eliminating inflation in the calculation of the average and determining transparently the participation of associations of municipalities in the procedure. Based on an analysis of the actual expenditure of municipalities, the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption of municipalities is changed to take account of the demographic situation in the municipality. Analysis of the final accounts of Slovene municipalities over the years shows a shift between the number of people and the amount of costs. In particular, this means greater burden on the budgets of municipalities with a large number of inhabitants, especially under the age of 6 and over 75 years. The co-financing system of the Joint Municipal Administrations shall be amended to promote the establishment of larger clusters linking at least three municipalities carrying out at least three tasks. The aim of the proposer in this case is to optimise the number of joint municipal administrations with the minimum number of municipalities involved and to enrich the set of tasks that such joint municipal administrations would carry out and co-financed by the state. Amended Article 20 of the Act lays down the legal framework for the provision of funds for the purchase of eligible expenditure for co-financing of municipalities for the exercise of the rights of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and provides the basis for the adoption of a regulation which will lay down specific criteria for the allocation of funds between municipalities. The proposed law deletes the provision on the co-financing of municipalities with the Roma population, as municipalities do not have the obligation of bilinguality as both national communities do, while other rights do not differ from constitutional rights. In addition, at the beginning of the year, the draft law was forwarded to the opinion and presented and coordinated with all three associations of municipalities. In particular, the amendments to Article 20, with the said co-financing of the exercise of the rights of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, were also presented to self-government nationalities and municipalities where these two communities live. At the time of the drafting of the law, the Ministry met seven times with the management of the associations of municipalities and representatives of the municipalities and also sought to draw closer to the positions where the proposals for the resolution of the problems encountered in practice were different, but unfortunately all the proposals of the associations could not be taken into account, since they were either contrary to the views of the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court of Slovenia or contrary to the basic outcomes of the law in the work proposing a change in the formula for calculating the average. The Government considers that the proposal for a law and the proposed legal solution is more fair in the allocation of funds between municipalities and also more transparent in the process of determining the average level of the applicable law and therefore proposes that the National Assembly approve the content of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u58	Honourable Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. The State allocates a good billion euros or half of the money that municipalities spend per year to municipalities through appropriate spending. However, the Court of Auditors’ audit has warned that funding is not optimal. The rules are flawed, the competent services have established the average more on the thumb and have not taken into account the diversity of municipalities, the impact of the various scenarios and the state of public finances. For the determination process, the average was not clearly defined, whose costs are taken into account for the determination of the average, nor was the average determination process itself. We have before us a proposal for a law that seeks to resolve these shortcomings. The formula for calculating appropriate consumption thus gives greater weight to younger than six years and over 75 years of age, as it represents a relatively higher cost for the congregations. In principle, we agree with this in the Desus Group, but note the comments made by the two largest cities that the change in demographic weights is significantly too small to balance the imbalances so far. For example, the situation in Ljubljana is disturbing, where building homes for older citizens does not meet the demand, so more and more elderly people are moving to homes around the country. The bill eliminates inflation as a change in the calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities. The inclusion of inflation in public funds is disappearing from legislation, in a specific case, the current solution should only artificially raise the funding base of municipalities. The financial impact of this change is expected to be neutral. On the one hand, it will increase the balance of income belonging to the State, but on the other hand it will increase the need for financial compensation. The provision on co-financing of joint municipal administrations is also amended. The aim is to strengthen the participation of municipalities or to increase the number of joint municipal administrations with a minimum number of municipalities involved and a larger set of tasks carried out by the Joint Municipal Administration. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the law no longer follows the real needs and circumstances on the ground and, on the other hand, we believe that a number of important open questions will have to be raised in further drafting the proposal. We agree, however, that the proposal for a law goes into further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you very much again for your word. According to the Constitution, residents and residents of Slovenia are granted local self-government in the municipalities and also in other local communities. However, we would stop at the municipalities at this point, as the proposal for today's debate is also the new Law on the Financing of the Communities. The municipality must be able to meet the needs and interests of its inhabitants. It is also obliged to carry out other tasks in accordance with the law. The original orders are for 20 and a few more. In order to carry out the tasks under its original competence and to carry out the tasks delegated by the State to the local community, resources are required. The amount of funds needed by the municipalities to carry out the statutory tasks, as well as for investments, are negotiated separately for each year. Once through the budget, twice through the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Representatives of the Government said that they had drawn up a proposal for a law based on decisions of the Constitutional Court, based on a revision of the funding of municipalities. The Court of Auditors concluded that the distribution of municipal money was not optimal in 2014 and 2015, in particular, that the rules on the determination of the average were unclear and insufficient. However, the most obvious conclusion is that the average was more determined on the finger than on the basis of some methodology. The calculation of the average takes little account of the diversity of municipalities, according to the Court of Auditors. Your Honor! Throughout the period we have advocated the even development of Slovenia, regions and municipalities. Are our efforts going in this direction? If citizens once had difficulty evicting from their so - called birthplace, these obstacles are no longer present. In many municipalities, the number of jobs has decreased, even for the educational structure. The younger generation left, the middle generation remained, the drivers and the older ones. Less funding for municipalities, less investment in development and improvement of the living environment, more difficult and less access to the centre, is an easier decision to leave. Due to the laxity of the rules, municipalities and the state are constantly negotiating the amount of the means of the average, thus remaining on different shores, on different interpretations of the legal provisions and so forth. Finally, there is a compromise that we all know is short-term and that we will deal with the same problem a few months later. Is this novel of the Law on Community Financing-1C the one that will bring another, a more lasting solution? Is this the novel that follows the findings of the Court of Auditors? I'm afraid not. And this fear follows the fact that the Government is still negotiating with representatives of municipal associations regarding the proposed solutions in this bill. While the rules on sub-programmes to be taken into account for the calculation of the average costs for the financing of the tasks of the municipalities to enter into force tomorrow are also likely to apply, 23. 9. 2017, we are not united, is this the right solution? With the proposed amendment to the Social Democrats Financing Act, we are not satisfied. In fact, we are not sure that the proposed solutions follow the recommendations or findings of the Court of Auditors, but there is still a possibility that the law can be amended during the legislative procedure with the amendments. Then we can support the conclusion that the proposal for a new Law on Community Financing is suitable for further consideration. But it is essential that such a law be drawn up, on the basis of which it will be known for a longer period, to what extent the congregation’s resources can be counted. On this basis, projects will be prepared, they will try to obtain as much European funding as possible on the tenders and thus contribute to economic growth and the increase in gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u62	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! We have much to discuss in the National Assembly about congregations, their tasks and funding. Looking back, the red thread of the discussions is an increase in the scope of the tasks, on the one hand, and a decrease in consumption or average, on the other hand. This designation of local self-government, in our view, is wrong and does not lead to appropriate regional development of the country. Today's proposal has overlooked many important criteria for the effective and fair financing of municipalities. It has also overlooked the Court of Auditors’ guidelines on tasks whose costs are taken into account in the medium-to-average procedure. The government has so simplified its funding that it has placed only demographic criteria in one formula, that is the proportion of the young and the proportion of the older population, but does not take into account the specific characteristics of individual municipalities and their actual costs. The Novela Law on the financing of municipalities for most municipalities actually means a reduction in income, despite the proposaler's claim that it is an equalization of the situation for all people. Regardless of where they live, the impact of the new calculation of appropriate spending for some municipalities will be negative, as they will receive less income to finance appropriate spending. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that this means increasing differences between municipalities and not the other way around. For comparison. In accordance with the new Law on the Capital City, which has been so generously accepted by the Coalition Members recently, the Ljubljana municipality will receive a total of €3.3 million more in income next year for the same scope of specific tasks that it has been carrying out all the years as the country's capital. Smaller congregations, however, are increasingly tasked with fewer and fewer resources. In fact, this means the slow abolition of smaller municipalities, including those which now have joint municipal administrations, but will not meet the new criterion, namely the merger of at least three municipalities into the common municipal administration, instead of the current two, and perform at least three joint tasks. After two years of the transitional period, such joint municipal administrations will no longer be eligible for co-financing. What will happen to such congregations then? There is no need to discuss this in particular. In our view, the number of people, development guidelines, and dispersion should also be considered as an additional criterion in the common administrations of the municipalities. In Novi Slovenija we note that this law is also opposed by all municipalities and their representative associations because it is prepared without professional analyses and calculations. This is a partial solution that deepens differences between municipalities. Given the fact that the average was already EUR 536 four years ago, we cannot say that the average is increasing, as the Government claims. The following year, it will barely catch the height of the former average, which has been severely reduced in the interim period. At the same time, we ask ourselves where is the limit to which the State may reduce funds to municipalities in case of public finances problems and the scope of the tasks remains the same. Every change in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities makes the situation of Slovenian municipalities worse. If such a trend continues, all the positive effects that the new local government has brought after 1995 will soon be eliminated, especially in rural municipalities, which have demonstrated by their independence that they know and can manage their premises better than in the former common communities, which have spent most of their resources on the development of the centres. In New Slovenia, we will oppose the proposal for a new law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thanks again. When we first read the strategy for the development of local self-government, then the audit report on the financing of the appropriate use of municipalities and now the amendments to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, we cannot get rid of the feeling in Levica that the Minister does not either want to deal with local self-government or does not know how to deal with it. The audit report is extensive and the findings are of little concern. The unclear procedure for setting the average, the tasks of the municipalities are not clearly defined, the order of activities is not clearly defined, the system does not take account of all the relevant factors, the average is determined and not calculated, the Ministry does not carry out the relevant analyses and so on. This is some of the conclusions that are set out in this report, but the proposal of the law before us does not actually solve these problems and cannot solve them. It was because the government had passed the law before it prepared the response report. The 108 pages of the long audit report were published on 14 June. The government passed the law 14 days later. The law was therefore written before they even read the audit report at the Ministry. Nevertheless, the law was supposed to remedy exactly the shortcomings that the Court of Auditors had pointed out. The 108 pages of identified shortcomings are therefore to be corrected by partial solutions that are prepared without any analysis and before anyone at the Ministry has read the entire report at all. The formula for calculating the appropriate consumption of municipalities and calculating the average is expected to improve, although we do not yet have a list of all the tasks of the municipalities. We've been asking the Minister in the Left for three years to get him. We haven't seen him before today. The second thing we have been warning about in Levica all the time is the lack of dialogue. Dialogue for the government and coalition is necessary only when we want to protect the workers and their rights in Levica. At that time, the main argument is that the proposals for the protection of workers are not harmonised or are not made in the dialogue with employers. When we talk about the public sector and local self-government, dialogue is something that is obviously unnecessary or even unnecessary. The Minister had difficulty negotiating the average. It also did not agree with the municipalities on the strategy for the development of local self-government. According to the opinions received, the representatives of the municipalities also oppose amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities. At the time of the discussion of the strategy in Levica, we have warned that it is good to read, but that we have the feeling that it is more of a list of wishes and good thoughts. And the law before us proves that we were right. On the one hand, the government is talking about how it will strengthen local self-government and strengthen municipal integration at regional level, while firmly violating the conditions for co-financing of joint municipal administrations and joint management of tasks. Of course, the proposal is not based on any analysis. It is also not possible to conclude from the proposal that the Ministry has considered the consequences of this change in practice. The consequences, of course, cannot be assessed if there is no analysis. If at least we don't have a list of tasks and a little more than just basic financial data. On the basis of the above, we could conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. However, there is another solution in the proposal that we need to highlight. At the beginning of the year, we prepared amendments to the Law on the Roma Community. With it we wanted to solve the years of lingering difficulties in the financing of the Roma communities and the municipalities in which the Roma community resides. In the coalition, you rejected our proposal with an argument that you would prepare your law because ours is not systemic and that the funding of the municipalities should be regulated in the Law on Community Financing. Amendments to the Law on the Roma Community have been announced by the Government for three years, but it still does not exist today. It is true, however, that the financing of the municipalities in which the Roma community resides is governed by the law we are considering. How? By deleting the provision on co-financing. Simple. The proposal therefore deletes the provision on funds intended for the exercise by law of certain rights of the Roma ethnic community. The Government therefore proposes to abolish Community co-financing, which is protected at constitutional level. Another proof that the government for the vulnerable and pushed to the side of society simply does not have or does not want to be heard. In view of all the above, we will not support the conclusion that this law is suitable for further due consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a team, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we intend to support the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities if the majority will be shown to upgrade certain content that is not adequately regulated in the draft law for first reading in our opinion during the hearing in the National Assembly. We hoped that by the beginning of today's debate with the municipalities, the government would be able to agree on a pressing issue of the average. However, as we are informed, this is not the case. The law must be more appropriate in the work governing the average in terms of transparency of the procedure in its calculation. The part relating to the link between the number of inhabitants and the amount of actual costs, as well as the demographic aspect, which takes into account the presence of the youngest and oldest population in the municipality, is properly addressed in our opinion. I personally believe that there is also a progressive provision which, due to greater efficiency, encourages the co-financing of the common municipal administrations, which is particularly important in the case of a large number of small municipalities. We were pleased that the Government had opened a provision of the Law laying down the conditions for the preparation of additional funding criteria for municipalities in which the Italian and Hungarian national communities reside. This provision has served for a good decade to stir up spirits mainly in the Hungarian national community, because unfortunately in the spirit of the provisions of the Slovenian Constitution it did not regulate the scope of the financing of municipal self-government national communities, which are independent persons of public law on the basis of Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me stress that the proposed solution to Article 5 of the bill amending Article 20 of the current law from this point of view is not good, so we are counting on the willingness of all competent entities to upgrade the text in the course of the hearing accordingly. In the context of the presentation, I will not fully illustrate the content of the discussions and coordination that we have had with the representatives of the competent ministry and within the competent bodies of the self-government national communities in recent months. I will only present the most important points and the proposal for our solution, which we will table in the form of an amendment, for a second reading of the bill if the proposal is confirmed in the first reading. First time. With the amendment of the law, we want only to achieve that there will also be the possibility of direct funding of self-government national communities, which are persons of public law, with elected councils in local elections. There has been no such possibility so far, as this is a provision in force that has explicitly prevented it. In our proposal, it is not a quantitative change in the earmarked budgetary resources, but rather the possibility that that part of the money provided on a continuous basis, as part of the co-financing of the realization of the rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, is intended for the operation and programmes of the municipal self-government community, to direct the said institution or organisation, if it so wishes, without the intervention of the municipality. However, part of the funding allocated to the bilingual operation of the municipalities continues to be provided directly to the municipalities. Another time. What is the essence of our proposal for a change? In addition to the already mentioned status of municipal self-government national communities, which, without controversy, should prejudge the direct financing of these organisations, and not just now, but from the very beginning of the system, it should also be self-evident that, in the division and transfer of the earmarked state money, which is provided specifically for the maintenance and development of the Italian and Hungarian communities in Slovenia, the legitimate organisation of the said community is at least an equivalent partner, if not fully autonomous, but not to give it an amount only indirectly. In the notes, I state that, unfortunately in some cases, according to the key, as defined by the mediator, the congregation. Third time. As I have already pointed out, we have discussed our proposal several times over the past months, but despite the positive approach of the absolute majority of the participants in the talks, the competent ministry has still, or at least until this proposal has been tabled, not agreed with us. I don't think there were any valid reasons for that. But formals can always be found. However, I say that the discussions have been useful and I thank all the actors for their cooperation. I must also make it clear that the Italian National Community initially disagreed with the Hungarian National Community's proposal, because more than a decade of practice in the participation of municipalities with self-government national communities is quite different for objective reasons on the coast than in Prekmurje. In recent months, intensive discussions have been held between the two communities on an appropriate solution. Finally, we agreed on a compromise solution, which is less than Hungarian nationalities organisations required, but if adopted in the National Assembly, it is certainly a step in the right direction in the area of direct financing of municipal self-government national communities. Fourth time. Let me point out that in our amendment we will only propose an option, i.e. I emphasise, only the possibility of direct funding of municipal self-government national communities, which can only be realized in the event of a consensus with the municipality, because otherwise, if there is no consensus or if this desire is not enforced by the national community, the current form of funding will continue to apply. As a result of all this, we expect broad support from the parliamentary groups on the proposed amendment, as the proposed amendment is a normatively better solution than the current legislation. It has no financial implications for the state budget, it does not take on the municipalities because the funds from this title are specifically intended for the national communities and it prejudges greater responsibility and transparency by the self-governing national communities. This amendment, which is now harmonised at the level of both communities, will be incorporated into the National Assembly. I hope, like I said before, he'll be supported most of the time. In this first reading, we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u68	Hello! In history, whenever the Law on the Financing of the Congregations has changed, I have never actually heard the word that anyone would be in harmony. Remember in 2006, in fact, since then, the law has not changed at all, except for minor changes. In fact, the Janša government laid down the legality of the financing of the municipalities, which is still in force today. Are the congregations satisfied with this way of financing today? If you ask them, they'll say no. Do they want to agree with the new law that we are proposing today? No, no, no. Have they ever agreed to any form of funding? Never. And they won't. Because they swear from one simple point of view to autonomy and understand the word autonomy only as it is understood: give me the money, and I will decide how and what. That's definitely not autonomy. However, autonomy is very clearly defined in the Constitution and is also enshrined in the European Charter. And those who mention this autonomy and refer to it in the local community most often forget to mention that there are other provisions in the Constitution that very clearly define and define how and how money is spent. Planned, among other things. And they forget, especially since this is fresh, a new provision in the constitution that we also have a fiscal rule in the constitution. And this one fights with what the congregations really want. In 2006, I drew attention to one of the discussions that, in fact, some congregations, at the time of the majority of the congregations, were so pleased that the three were richer, say, richer, nominally had the most money in their budget, that that year had also been distributed to other congregations, and, of course, the congregations were not in solidarity and were in fact in favour of such withdrawals, which later proved partly unjust by the constitutional provision. At that time it was clearly established that, while the first two years would be very good for these municipalities, all the next years will be this new calculation, Janš's calculation, which, by the way, you will understand me, I am talking about Yanšev's government, made by Minister Žagar, who is today the mayor of one of the municipalities of the SLS, who has actually made a model for those who have more to solidarity with those who have fewer. And in this way, we will promote development. What happened after all these years? Today is the eleventh year of this, and all we can say is that all urban centres that satisfy the needs and interests of the wider area, not only that congregation, I am talking about institutions, theatres, libraries and similar institutions, have begun to lose their kind of autonomy, to which they are actually referring every time we talk about this law. Another important thing that is very clearly defined in this law is this problem that all Slovenians have. If you ask any Slovenian or Slovenian in the Republic of Slovenia today, if we have too many municipalities, they will surely all confirm that we have too many. But if you say which congregations must be abolished, you will experience rebellion. You know, no one wants to end themselves. It's neither natural nor human. We're up against suicide. And that's it. Therefore, this law provides for a slightly different way of connecting administrations mainly for one reason, since a single congregation cannot even take a serious project seriously, so such a link makes sense. Sadly, though, all congregations feel that they must receive money. I'm going to say one more thing that's very interesting. If you ask very simply that citizens and citizens will be able to imagine what autonomy really means. You give me the money for all I need and I have to pay by contract and what I have to do by law, which is my job. But I still have to have enough money in my budget so that I can also meet the ambitions that will be needed to have a room of manoeuvre to say that I have also implemented some new policies. But they forget that they can't even take what is Caesar's. We do not yet have the original tax of local self-government, which would be called real estate tax, which we are talking about and will probably be the subject of the next term. But surely not even what they have, the replacement of the building’s land, in fact, many congregations do not either pick up or collect in full or start collecting too late. This is also one of the answers to just expecting what the state will give, but you will always be kind, because it is most unfriendly to collect taxes, is also actually irresponsible to your own autonomy, which everyone refers to. The debate will certainly give some answers and probably also give some reflection on the Government's side. The government is aware and I believe it is aware that it is not and cannot only be a system out-out, but it can be a greater compromise. However, local communities will also need to be aware that the difference between what is expected and what is capable can only be a compromise. There's no way he can be just one or the other. In the SMC Group we will confirm this proposal in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting! When this or other government comes with the issue of local self-government in the National Assembly, we read the material thoroughly in the SDS Group. Among us are experienced former mayors, former mayors, many municipal councillors already have a number of mandates, that is, people with concrete knowledge and practice as to how local self-government is successfully managed. That is why we are even more dismayed in the parliamentary group when we received a new law on the financing of municipalities, which here in Chapter 2.3 speaks of major solutions. In the parliamentary group except when it comes to replacing the noun and the counter in the relationship between the development of the municipality and the development of all municipalities, we have a sign of X everywhere, which means that we do not support matters. And we will go slowly from article to article if you want the ministry or coalition partners not only to listen, but also to take into account certain things why we are against and why our argument is that we are against this law. Article 6, abolition of so-called indexation. What does that mean in practice? Less funds for the municipalities. Specifically. To start somewhere else when we're talking about indexation, we're talking about calculations. Your Honor! If you may have received an analysis in the coalition's parliamentary groups, we hope that this analysis is more modern than the last one that everyone is referring to, which is supposed to be from 2010. Do you know what has happened since 2010 not only in the field of local self-government? We are interested in new analyses and we are interested in concrete calculations of what will bring about the changes you are making. End of inflation or indexation, end of some permanent average calculation, new calculation of appropriate consumption and so on. In short, removal of indexing, less for municipalities. The government boasts about how successful it is, and the congregations get one more bar in the direction of antidevelopment, which is going through this ministry with every law. Almost every law gives the congregation a new obligation, and in the first sentence we encounter inflation and the first negative connotation of this law. Articles 11 and 12 talking about regulating the calculation of average costs, which should be more transparent and even more fair. Your Honor! On what basis can you say that this is a more transparent and fairer calculation process? In the SDS Group, we believe that these analyses, when made publicly available, which we hope you will allow us to do, will show that there are two issues. First, the centralisation of the country and second, the slow closing of tentacles to smaller, less developed demographically endangered municipalities, which will be affected in one way or another. Today we have already heard how, I quote, the average is calculated over the thumb. Run, come on! There's a law. If I quote the opinion of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, which you probably received today, I quote: "There is also no effort to reduce the difference in the calculated average currently of €647 to the average set by the Government in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia this year, €533." You are speaking because you are reading at a flat rate what is said to finance the proper consumption of municipalities, the Court of Auditors’ audit report that something needs to be changed. But you're going to change it by taking the congregations. Speaking of averages, the average was €536 in 2012. Do you know what happened in 2012? ZUJF and everything. The next government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, reduced it to 519 euros, and then every six months, 3 euros up, 3 euros down, 519, 525, 533, 529 and now 533 euros. In the last five years, when new obligations and statutory tasks have been flooded, the municipalities have no longer averaged. So much for some people talking about how they feel about developing local self-government, how they feel about developing everyone in this country evenly. There is a fundamental problem in Article 13, which speaks of a change in weight in the calculation of appropriate consumption. Where are the analyses, where are the calculations specifically for all Slovene municipalities, what does this mean in practice? Does this mean a deviation, a percentage up or down, or does this mean something else? If you have been preparing such a law and called on how much more than so far the demographic movement must be taken into account in calculating the appropriate consumption, we expect a serious government, a serious analysis and a serious calculation in the serious ministry, and a presentation of these data. That is why we will be very careful here. As regards Article 20 and amendments to the provisions on co-financing of municipalities in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities reside. Your Honor! I think that, for about 10 minutes, the representative of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities said that you had not yet come together to resolve this issue. There's probably not much effort. As the representative said in his position, only a little goodwill would have been necessary, but unfortunately you have not yet reached it. In the SDS Group, we will continue to adopt this law, even though we oppose it at first reading, because we believe that everything is wrong and we will, in the end, say even more precisely why, we will support, if the law goes forward, all the solutions brought by a colleague from the Italian and Hungarian minorities in the amendment form. The minorities, you may have forgotten, are enshrined in the Constitution, so it is right that we treat them in a responsible manner in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the legislation governing their rights, duties and financing. As far as the subject of this law is concerned with the Roma community, it is no surprise that we probably have a slightly different opinion on the issue of the Roma community in the SDS than our colleagues in the Left. The fact is that the Roma community is mentioned in the constitution, in the law that needs to be changed, so, respectable, let us be careful when we are looking for solutions for this minority too. Article 23, which sets an early deadline for amendments to spending plans for co-financing municipal investments, instead of 15 September, is until 15 August. August 15th. Three-quarters of governments are happy on vacation and expect municipalities to deliver to the Ministry by 15 August anything that is not in accordance with the investment decisions adopted, in accordance with the budgetary matters adopted. If we were at least a little sane, we would probably propose July 15th, the last deadline, the last day we work, the judges work, the government works, when the municipal and city councils may be sitting in July, and we could adopt a change in the investment plan. Or perhaps you expect to make it easier for you to delete the investments of the municipalities, because you will say, "her, we are not to blame for the government, we are not to blame at the Ministry if you were like us on August 15th." In short, there are only two common sense proposals: whether the 15th of September remains, i.e. after a good half of the financial year, that the mayors have the option or, if you are really in as bad a hurry as you say, how much work is then for the ministry, is some normal date on July 15th. Not unlike all other matters referred to on August 15. And this is the last provision, and this is the change in the co-financing of the Joint Municipal Administrations. We have read this matter with interest, because in the SDS Group we are convinced that the Ministry wants to somehow force the municipalities to cooperate more specifically on one side with this co-financing. If you take the money from these congregations, you will force them not only to work together but also to join congregations. But look, I'm going to read the opinion of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. I quote: “Constant pressure on small municipalities continues with the proposal to amend the rules on co-financing of joint municipal administrations. The Joint Municipal Administrations are functioning well and it is particularly meaningful to upgrade with additional meaningful tasks without unnecessary overexperiment. The proposed legal requirement to increase tasks and size by limiting to the current mass of funds (for co-financing) is unthinkable and with vague consequences.” So understand who is more, with what steps, and with what intents, you wanted to accept this law! Today we also listened to how you coordinated with the Community of Congregations and with the Association of Congregations. It is said that these meetings or these coordination meetings were seven times, and then we receive a letter from the Community of Municipalities today, and we can also expect a letter from the Community of Municipalities, where there are comments on two-thirds of the articles that are open. Another evidence that this government often talks about negotiating is that it obviously forgets one crucial moment. If you two are going to make a deal, you need to make a deal. But you obviously didn't agree on any of this. And the story continues, like the story of the average in recent years. When it says you can make a deal, then the government does it its way. Here, too, we are very sad that the government and this coalition will obviously bring about the same thing in the adoption of this law in terms of, you get upset, you complain, you criticize, we will accept and so on. In short, there's another law where we go to centralization. If you show analyses and calculations, you will be shown that this law works for the two, three largest congregations, and all the other congregations are secondary citizens. We are even more concerned because these calculations are likely to be overblown. If you only remember Zujf, where the government is under the pretext of reducing the averages for the congregations, I do not know what kind of savings due to the reduction of bureaucratic and I do not know any other obstacles. Big bang! The congregations were thrilled to see this law, and in the end two things happened. The government deleted those provisions that it had in the draft law and the ransom was almost null and void. There was little spoil from the big promises. This is where it's gonna be the other way around. Few promises for municipalities, but many negative financial effects in particular. As a result of such scribbles, which you can probably read, I may continue to say what was written in the Association of Slovene Municipalities, i.e. the mayors, those who deal with the substantive and financial tasks of the municipalities daily, because of such matters, we will oppose this law. If you do not come to the second hearing by coalition partners with amendments, which will include such solutions as are proposed by colleagues from minorities who must comply with the Constitution to resolve the Roma problem, and if you do not summarize all the amendments of the Community of Communities and the Association of Communities, we will propose not only the withdrawal of the law, but more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u71	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. There is a general debate between the Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Dr László Göncz and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u72	When you listen to all these presentations, you will find that, despite the fact that we have a few mandates back, Members have decided to expel the mayors from Parliament, that the mayors still have incredible power. Almost every Member is committed to his mayor and trembles and trembles about what will happen when local community legislation and regulations are adopted. Just this morning, I have listened to quite a few Members and Members of Parliament who have been appalled and somewhat appalled by this letter, written by Mr Smrdelj, a mayor who is very active in parliamentary procedures when legislation on the municipality or local community is being addressed, and very well knows our procedures and knows how this is going. He pisses us off very kindly and tells all Members the following: this is the most beautiful sentence. At the beginning he greets us a little bit and then says that the first is to consider the law on the financing of municipalities and similarly, blah blah blah and finally says, “... and at the first reading I ask if the Government returns to the reunification of the Association of Municipalities.” [[…]] He did not say vote against it because it is the only way we can achieve that we will return the document to the Government, or he invites us to actually vote against it. It is the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia. I would like to know what the opinion of the municipalities of Slovenia is. That's what I'm interested in, considering there's a little bit of a different way of thinking. And now, because of one Mr. Stink here, we're all going to refer to this paper that's modestly written on both sides? I'm begging you, don't beat me with that kind of stuff! And to be honest, to be very honest, I thought it would come last week. So he almost missed it. He only sent today. At the last minute, someone reminded him that there was no document to which he would refer when he explained his explanations in Parliament. But don't get me wrong. It is best to listen to my colleague Lisco, who is still very young, I highly appreciate him because he is seriously preparing for the debates, but his Chief of Staff has decided in 2006 that we have a problem today. That is why it is very nice to hear when a member of the SDS, who has supported me with the SLS and all the other coalition partners, is this famous amendment to the ZFO law that we have before us today and is only with minor corrections, and is actually making trouble for us all together. I already said in the opening address, Comrade Lisec, that no mayor has ever praised the state. None at all! I don't know anybody. And go to him for coffee, to any one, randomly choose him and ask him with your eyes tied so that you will not see him: “Are you satisfied with the country?” "No, we're not." And then for two hours he'll explain to you what's wrong and why he sees the problem and the problems. I understand that these are two partners, not two opponents. The country and the local community must be partners. First, because you're living in the same country, each with different tasks. One after the defolk is stronger than the other because it has a direct impact on the standards that are adopted in the country and the local community has an indirect influence, and this, as we see today, is not so weak because it appears directly in the legislative body where it defends and refers. I must warn and not least come from a large city, since 2006 the funding of municipalities has been poor. And not because the state wants to, but because we have this calculation. It makes sense that the whole country suffered in the meantime. But if we look at the picture of the congregations today, and you know it. You will know that 72% of the congregations, in fact, have been overrun by expenditure for two years now, that the debt in the congregations has been declining in order to reduce it. So it is not as bad for the congregations as some do today. Indeed, I tell you this from experience, the maneuvering space within local budgets is extremely small for the municipal, functional policies that I would like to bring into the local community. Any mayor elected will already be subject to obligations over 85% and more. And then there's not enough of this maneuvering space. And what happens? Some mayors don't perform certain tasks because he can't, some consciously because they don't want them because they want to cash for something else. And they decide that this is a public interest, an interest of the local community, a community to pull it off. Whether it is right or wrong, it should be up to the citizens of each congregation. That's not my job. I'm not even gonna deal with it. But because of this to take the blame to the state to give too little money because it doesn't fill all the needs, I'm sorry, it just doesn't work that way. System: I'll give you the bills and the state will pay for them and I'll rule, that's not autonomy, that's not how it works. I know some mayors would like to make a list, but this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, pay for this. It would be interesting to see how interesting it would be if the mayors agreed that the state would transfer all funds to finance the salaries of primary schools to municipal budgets. Well, that sounds good at first. But I was wondering if we'd agree. Because you know what that means? Any agreement that would have happened in the country with regard to wages and the like, the mayors already feel that way in kindergarten today, should have paid for it. Hell, wouldn't give a country, wouldn't make a difference, yeah, the bag is never as full as wishes. You know, the country just isn't Santa Claus and it can't be Santa Claus and even less Santa Claus. It's not working. But he has to be a partner. But you know, the partnership is not this today, colleague Lisec in his presentation made it very clear that the government boasts that it has met seven times. [[…]] But I'll tell you from experience, if you don't want anything in this country, you'll just say no, you're out of line. Yes, how do you think the government of Janez Janša 2006 has enforced the Law on Community Financing? Were they “for” the city’s congregations? The hell they were "for"! It wasn't that popular at the time, it wasn't that popular. Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] That's not true. That's not true. Three congregations went into the lawsuit procedure, Comrade Lisec, if you want to comment, unlike you, I was even an actor, and I listened to your chief, who was there explaining how this would make Ljubljana happy and how wonderful we would do. You know what he did on the other side? Now I'm gonna tell you this rotten joke. He offered us 12. A department to give peace to the referendum. He did it! The rotten compromise has gone! That's why I suggest you, Comrade Lisec, so I said on purpose, you're young yet, you haven't been in these stories, and you haven't fallen for every trick they tell you. That is why I think it is very important that everyone harmonise, in a way that is compromised, agreed upon. Solidarity does not mean but priori agree that you are always against it, but actually agree together in a way also in all other matters. I am pleased that the current Minister of Finance is also – and I believe that in the next term, the government, however it will – will finally accept that the real estate tax must be the original tax of the local community, because it has not actually had it to date. How are you going to perform your autonomy? That's where the money starts and ends. You know, we can talk about nice projects, but if there's no money, it's nothing. There's nothing you can do! Then there is the knowledge that many in the local community lack in one congregation. However, if the congregations connect, they can have significantly more knowledge, significantly more power, and significantly more success in the projects. And this is the logic that we've talked about many times, and I've mentioned it many times before that all the mayors think only to the municipal border, and then their minds stop. But not because it would be their fault. Far from it. But because it turned out that the one who didn't take care of himself couldn't take care of others. This logic and this way of thinking must be reversed. Today, some say what the Court of Auditors has found. However, if we are honest when we discussed the strategy, remember that, in fact, we are talking about this issue in Parliament, we had these findings in our hands at the time, and today it was unfair to listen to the representative of the Left when he explained that the strategy had been well read, but they had some doubts, but now this doubt has proved to be in law. After all, there were foretold steps that would happen and that would now appear within the law. Go take a look at your magnetograms, don't bluff here today and talk about some doubts. Today I have even heard that the law was practically made days after the Court of Auditors gave its report. Excuse me, whoever knows the functioning of the Court of Auditors knows that the Court of Auditors does not carry out its tasks within 14 days, but is doing an audit throughout the year, in between endless meetings and meetings and reviews and documentation requests and what I know what else. They damn well knew what the report would say in the end. But there is no problem if the Court of Auditors has practically identified the same things that the Ministry has already identified a year before the Court of Auditors even began its audit. Today he discovers hot water, if you look at it, a few days of difference, and the law is out there, and that's something suspicious! Look, let's at least stop making illusions. But if we're doing this for the Slovenian public, then I understand. But don't make us look like we're all stupid and we think there's a conspiracy theory here — it's not! And once again, every country has the right to create conditions and regulations in a democratic way, just as it thinks it is right. If he does so in cooperation and with what is a broader discussion. Last but not least, I understand that it didn't come about for a few weeks, but it was a few years and it started with a strategy, not just like that. Everyone knew this would happen. Do you know where the problem is over there? That you didn't even believe this marriage would happen. That's your problem. And now you're shocked because he just suddenly showed up. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, anyway, I think there's still room for maneuvers and there's still room to talk about. [[…]] I'm sure of that. But the prerequisite is that we need to talk, in this way, sorry, as Mr Stinky wrote, but not to talk, but to disqualify. Or else, Comrade Lisec, I would not use the word “municipality will be forced”, no, but we will stimulate them. That's the word that's used. That's basically how you encourage development. But we can play with the words and then, of course, we get side effects. So I can claim personally Of course we can talk for quite some time about who is living well and how not, but I always end up asking myself, for God's sake, how are all the mayors, if they're so powerless they can't do anything and everything is hard, then they're always elected. [[…]] But they always tell us what they did before the elections. But if they don't have money, if everything sucks, it's always unknown to me, and I never know how to put it together and explain it to myself. You know, there's one thing we talk about when we talk about the law and the proposals -- it's absolutely right to be warned, and it's also right to keep talking about it -- and the other is that we have to cut it once and make a decision. Is this the time? I don't know, we'll see in the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u73	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I apologize for the delay, but I do not doubt that my colleagues have presented the purposes of this law correctly in the first place, and given that much has already been said, I will try to take as little time as possible, but only to respond to those allegations that I believe it is necessary to clarify them, that decision-making can be qualitative and that we also advocate that the preparation of this law and the solutions in this law are not unilateral, are not random, are not unique, but are thorough and also coordinated. As far as the analysis is concerned, colleague Möderndorfer said, we had a review of the Court of Auditors, which lasted a long year, during which we participated in the clearance meetings, and in 2010 we had a comprehensive analysis prepared, and, last time we analyze the reports and plans of the municipalities, we have a very thorough overview of what is happening with the municipalities and we are currently operating. The list of tasks as the United Left has challenged – but I think the colleague has read practically the same reminder as he already had when adopting the strategy, and it was already explained at that time – the tasks are clearly defined, they are published on the websites and, last but not least, it has recently been re-published by a regulation or regulation issued by the Ministry of Finance, Texas has adopted those mandatory tasks that municipalities have to provide. So, the tasks are crystal clear and are precisely defined. With regard to the Roma community, let me say that the constitutional category is in the part where they provide a Roma councillor in the municipalities for which this is established, but for the other needs of the Roma community they are citizens, like everyone else, and we cannot say that we have to provide water specifically for the Roma community, but not for the others if I give it to the case. So they have to be equal. At the same time, I am pleased that the Interdepartmental Working Group is already preparing a draft bill regulating this assistance to the Roma communities, which will be regulated systematically and which is not the subject of this law that is before us today. As for the average and also listening to how the situation in municipalities is declining is catastrophic, it is increasingly bad and so on, the facts say that in municipalities we have a steady increase in surpluses, that the revenues are highest after 2008, that the debt is steadily falling, that almost half of the municipalities in 2016 have committed more than 30% of the municipal investment budget. It's information that's very good for me and it's encouraging me. So the situation in the congregations is not as disastrous as it wants to be presented. And let me also point out, with regard to the following data, EUR 674, that this is a calculation that would belong to the municipalities for the average. This is a calculation which Mr Strink consistently repeats, but is based on an repealed rule, which was annulled by the Court of Auditors precisely because the tasks which are not compulsory tasks of the municipality were taken into account here and therefore this rule has been repealed. We have also made this very clear several times. Maybe even with this procedure, it's too complicated. However, the investment that can be made to the municipality by means of funds is an investment which must also be included in the NRP and therefore these procedures must be carried out. However, I agree with you that this date may be awkward, it may have been earlier, but in this way we have allowed more time for the congregations to carry out appropriate procedures. With regard to joint municipal administrations. The volume of funds – not least during this government, we have managed to recover all the arrears of the common municipal administrations, which have already been recruited for a fat year – is the same or higher, only the way in which the common municipal administrations are calculated or the support of the state changes in ways that those municipalities where more municipalities are being merged and more tasks together can receive a higher share of co-financing. We simply motivate the congregations to bring together more assignments, and I have made public many times because we will not motivate anyone to unite or break down. However, they can cooperate and act more rationally in this way, and this is also effectively enforced through these concrete corrections. However, let me say that, after the previous arrangement, six tasks have been taken into account in this merger, we now anticipate eleven. It is said that we have substantially expanded the set of these tasks. And interestingly, until after 1994, when the legislation was adopted, the Joint Municipal Administrations started co-financing by the State, and none of them started to work, and then they were – I think at present 58 if I know exactly the number. As far as cooperation with the communities is concerned, associations. 2015 The thesis was presented, in June 2016 we presented the starting points for the first time to the communities and associations of the municipalities, we talked. Yes, the official meetings were much, much more informal talks. Last but not least – because you read Mr Stinky's views – we often talk to him even on his cell phone, explain things to him, I say this here in public because we do not feel that we are not for dialogue. But if we didn't make the deal, that doesn't mean we won't accept the law because we had a deal. And we have another problem, different community associations often have diametric opposites, and in such a case it is really difficult to accept, but the law can only be one. We are trying to listen to all the arguments in this dialogue, understand them, take them into account if we consider them to be constructive, and as a proponent we take the right to say no, but of course you will decide what the final law will be. I explain this because I think it is crucial, and because I personally am a very large advocate of cooperation, I hope to say that this is even my political mission. It is not to be taken for granted that we did not cooperate, communicate, coordinate, but unfortunately we did not reach a common position at the final stage. I'd be more than happy to see that happen. For example, this article on joint municipal administrations is practically summarised on the basis of a proposal from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. We took theirs, and we brought it into the marriage, but the association may not have liked it the most. As for the financing of minority organisations and the costs associated with minorities emerging in local communities, Member, we have debated this enormously, we have sought solutions. Just the thought that I give here also for further decision, for the first time, this law governs the financing of municipalities, not organizations within the congregations. So if we arrange for direct funding, then the scope of the law needs to be extended. Then this is the law on the financing of municipalities and minority organisations, if I may put it that way. Secondly, in this law, where we have also tried to find a solution in intensive dialogue with Members, we have clearly defined how much of this funding goes to the congregation because of bilinguality, translation and so on, and what part should the congregation devote to minority organisations in the congregation in order to avoid minority organisations being deprived of it. This is a step that we have tried to make in the law on the basis of agreements, new for me that you now have a unified position, in the existing agreements that were once again on the ground and intense, we have not been presented with the Hungarian and Italian national communities having the same position or having very conflicting views. And if this position is now united, this is a new circumstance for me right now. Once again, we are talking about the Law on the Financing of Communities, not individual organisations within the municipalities, and if solutions are being sought in this direction, we will also need to consider the name and purpose of the whole law because it is a fundamental act. So much for those first explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u75	The text is by Dr László Göncz, to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Bojan Podkrášek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Thank you very much too, Mr Minister, for your first response. Before I focus, and not for a long time, on nationality by topic, just one thought about general work. It may not be the right place to say this now, and probably not everyone will like it, but I do believe that until we succeed in the field of local self-government in Slovenia to take the step that will also lead to the introduction of the provinces and then determine criteria and competences for the provinces and municipalities, by then we will find it very difficult to find the correct methodology for the criteria for appropriate consumption or for any other treatment of municipalities. Today, we are in a situation where we are all very honest when we have municipalities with one settlement, relatively small population, we have municipalities where we have more than 50 settlements. I think it is extremely difficult here, after some professional salary, to make such a system that will actually be very effective. Just for the introduction, this is not my immediate area, but since I have been following this issue for many years, it is my view that until there is one truly honest and professional one in this area, not political one, because in the past it has been precisely this problem that it has often been completely political until there is an expert consideration, until then this conflict will always exist in one way or another. I wish that, of course, not in this mandate, this is not a criticism of this government that no one would think about it, but, for example, in four or five years, it would be right that Slovenian policy, whatever it is, should be uniform to the issue of local self-government, because such cases as we have, would practically not be found anywhere in Europe. With regard to competences to some extent, but with regard to the organization and structure of the congregations themselves, there are almost no such cases. But like I said, it's just an introduction. The national aspect of this issue is a very specific area, so I do not want to take a long time here and those who possibly follow it because it is difficult to understand. It's really hard to understand this area within this. I agree with the Minister when he says that this law may not even be the right place to deal with this issue. The only problem is that this issue was systematically raised years ago, more than ten years ago in this context, and since then there have been problems in this regard. So at this point, we can only take this step to make some compromise in the direction we propose, and then finally in some law on the self-governance national community, which will be adopted in this mandate or in another mandate, we will make a final decision. As far as the whole concept is concerned, I accept this Minister's comment that this is not the real field, but unfortunately or luckily, I do not know, so far this content has been in this law for 15 years, and therefore the national communities have virtually no room for manoeuvre, because when they proposed solutions or changes in this area, it has always been an excuse that the Community Financing Act makes this impossible. In my opening remarks, I said that we were therefore glad that this article had opened because we believe that the first step could be taken. It is also true that, within the Italian community, the position was different, or let us be honest, even my colleague Roberto, who is not currently in the Chamber, this is confirmed by the fact that the Italian community did not address this issue because there were no direct problems in the area where the Italian community lives. Nevertheless, and as I said, I do not want to be a debt, as far as this is concerned, we have been in the last two months, practically in the summer months, after we have coordinated with you, with the Italian community, to come to a compromise solution by allowing for direct funding if the consensus between the congregation and the national community is to do so, and if the national community applies this right by 30 June of the current year for the following year. I have a written conclusion from the coastal Italian community, which has come to the National Assembly, so this matter is settled. To avoid really wasting my time and talking about something that is difficult to understand because it is a very specific area, I propose that the amendment that we have prepared with the Italian community should be aligned to some extent with the Government and with the other subjects of the National Assembly. I believe that this proposal, which is now our proposal, should not be rejected because it is undoubtedly a step forward. Otherwise, this conceptual problem that Mr Minister has stated remains, but I do not think that this is such a nature, and it is not such a quantitative intervention that, as a result of this now, the whole matter, I will say, push aside and simply refer to some of the principled issues and do not seek real solutions. Finally, in the Hungarian community, not everyone is satisfied that they have proposed explicitly direct funding for municipal organisations. Given that there is a slightly different position in the Italian community, we have not come to this, but it is a compromise to make this possibility public under this law. I ask the executive branch of the authorities and also the parliamentary groups to address this issue in a second reading over the next few weeks, and also to resolve it in a satisfactory manner to some extent. That's what I expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u77	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At first, when reading this material, it is very difficult to say whether it is good or bad. In view of the very large number of mayors' comments and the precise reading of further content, however, the human being is really a little skeptical and would need a lot of corrections in the same proposal. I agree that mayors need to know very clearly what their mandatory tasks are and what their optional tasks are, although some mayors argue that this distribution is not accurate. I would, however, continue with these mandatory tasks of the congregations. Many laws have been passed, many have been supplemented by these laws, many have been amended by laws that have set out additional obligations for the mandatory duties of the municipalities, which were brought by that law of amendment or supplementation, but not followed by financial support. This is why the mayors are strongly right because the proposer did not follow with the financial support the amendments to the mandatory municipal tasks. This is a fact and such cases are huge. It is not the fault of the current government or minister, because in the last four years nothing has been brought to the congregation anyway, so the blame is not on you now, but in fact the mayors here are right that the financial support has not followed the changes and completing the tasks that the congregations have received as their compulsory tasks. The following time I examine these explanations, in assessing the financial implications of the proposals, the law again states that the law does not impose additional obligations, not for the state budget and not for the municipal budget. Very nice and right, but when you read this explanation on the next page, it says, as wages increase, there will also be more income from income. When one thinks about it, do you know the river when two beggars on a park bench talk, says the first one, how do you get off, and the other one says, yes, so for the strength, because then every month I get another 50 euros for the bail for the bottles I return, which I bought earlier at the store? [[…]] This is the case, there is no financial obligation, and there will be more income because we know that 54 percent of the income goes to the congregations, then this comfort or this compensation, which will bring the marriage. Just, you know what you forget? That wages only grow in the public sector, because this government only supports the public sector and the economy does not grow. That's something to think about. And then, of course, I'm still reading the explanation. Very well, it is encouraging – so it is already in the past law and, of course, in this proposal – to motivate the establishment of joint municipal administrations, it is true to carry out the tasks of more than two, three, four, five congregations. It is very commendable to say that certain costs are being rationalised. I do not understand, however, that this motivation to carry out common services uphill is limited, so to speak, you can unite, but only to these limits. So rationalization is limited. It is limited because it must not exceed 0.5 per cent of total appropriate consumption and it is co-financed only up to 0.5 per cent of total appropriate consumption. It is said that we stimulate the congregations, but this stimulation is limited, and there is no more stimulation up there. So I'd say we're stimulated here now, we're stimulating a little bit, just a little bit. We're just doing a little bit of stimuli with the restraint. That's what this explanation says here in law. However, I have not been able to verify what stimulation is with regard to community administrations in large municipalities, whose population is more than 30,000. How is it stimulated here? And I'd like to ask you here for an answer, to stimulate community-based administrations in municipalities with more than 30,000 inhabitants. Whether small congregations are stimulated and large ones cannot be saved, small ones need to save or small ones are stimulated to save or move to stimulate small ones. He's here now, I'd say the dilemma of your explanation, what's here now, and I'd like to ask for an answer. Since I don't fully know this area, I'd like to ask for a position. Of course, the dilemma – well, this is a comment by the municipalities – is justified and unjustifiable costs. I think these boundaries need to be very clear. It is very clear what is actually justified in co-financing, an unjustified cost. Whether or not VAT is justified or not, and so on, it would be good to make this very clear. My colleague, Mr Möderndorfer, said earlier that the congregations are not doing so badly because the indebtedness of the congregations is decreasing from day to day. Mr Möderndorfer is very right, because the municipalities are paying off past debts and are no longer making investments because they are not financially capable. That makes sense. They pay off their debt, pay off their loans and, of course, their debt to the congregations is decreasing. Today, municipalities only deal with the change they actually consider to be investments. What I miss the most, as colleague Göncz has already mentioned, is that the Ministry or the Government would consider greater savings. I am talking here about the systemic regulation of administrative and local levels. In order not to explain to you all the anomalies that are happening at the administrative level today, how they create a number of events, how many counters they have done, because they, instead of giving in one supplement, in the building permit, give 12 supplements in 9 applications, so that the counter runs how many administrative procedures have been made. We compare the number of building permits issued in the years of the konjunkture, where construction permits were issued – I am a builder, I estimate over my finger – five times more than today! How much did we reduce the number of employees in administrative units? We've increased the number. Zoomed in. I think that it would be necessary to return immediately to the activities that have been abandoned with regard to the establishment of the provinces, this would be a major rationalisation with – I would say even – the duplication of some tasks or tasks would be easier to perform and to solve much more rationally if they had established the provinces and certain administrative tasks transferred to the local level, because the municipalities have this autonomy. In short, regions from the regional centres themselves would then work strategically, because we know that we have established regional development centres that care for local development, but of course there is no merger, no administrative-local synergy to actually succeed this development. I would be much more successful if we had regions today, and much more rational. Much more rational. These are greater savings than if, I don’t know, we now limit one community administration to one worker who will work for two congregations. There may, of course, be more proposals in mind here, but I think it is a very important choice. I would suggest that we first tackle those tasks that bring greater savings. However, I absolutely agree that the mayors will always be dissatisfied, regardless of the proposal, regardless of the size of the average and so on. I absolutely agree, I would say that in the congregation you're so, you're more good, you have more tasks, you have more responsibilities, you create more, and so on, that's development. In short, there's never an end to it. That's what they say. It's never the ultimate pleasure. This is very and precisely clear to me, but it is necessary to create and make a priority of greater savings, not to deal with smaller ones and then, of course, to convert to those cents, to those to which euro to give the congregation more, which to give less. I must say that in all these factors that you mentioned in the calculation for the congregations, I cannot say at this point whether it is true that small congregations give to large or large ones. I don't want to prejudge this right now, but I'd say she's some kind of stranger. There are many segments and there are many basics on which to start, that the actual calculation for all municipalities, those who are richer, and those who are poorer, fairer, even Slovenia, which we know to be very diverse. It is clear to me that we cannot be completely precise. That's very clear to me. But I think that here is a very important choice of priorities where more can be created and saved and also improve the development of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u79	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thank you, President. I will answer very briefly because there were some very specific and clear questions. Otherwise, I have to comment that we are only working for the public sector, and then I would probably be the most popular in mayors, unions, public servants, and unfortunately that is not the case. The association of congregations is unlimited. However, by virtue of their own competence, they unite themselves, this is their free judgment, but co-financing of this merger, which is not compulsory and is pure stimulation, is determined to some extent. How the congregations then connect, but we are only happy to see that they continue to bond because of this or without this stimulation. The criteria of how large a municipality has to be to unite are not defined and in the common municipal administrations, some of which are well-functioning, we have city municipalities that unite and in some ways offer services to the surrounding municipalities, and some municipal administrations work very well. The cost-sharing I think is very clear. I also said that the regulation adopted by the Ministry of Finance just these days provides for this even more precisely, and one of the purposes of this law is to crystal clear what costs are eligible and how they are exchanged. 30 % of last year's investments were made by almost half of the municipalities. It's not a small thing. This means that there are quite serious investments, and we know that the new financial perspective is just coming. The question was how many administrative units reduced the number of employees. I don't know the exact number, but by about 500 or 22% after 2008, we reduced the number of employees in administrative units and the material costs decreased by 44%. This is specific information, and I can also provide you with an analysis. The entire state administration, according to the ministries and bodies in the composition, has decreased by 4 000 employees since 2008, from 35 to 31 000, while municipal administrations have increased by 11% in this period. Increased during the crisis when the state administration reduced by 4,000 employees. Regarding the provinces - I do not want to start this discussion, but I agree with you. When we have an agreement, and in this direction, there is also a strategy on what the country's tasks are, what the province's tasks are and what the congregation's tasks are, then the provinces can be quickly established. That's where we're going. Today, neither between the state nor the congregations can we agree on what their tasks are. That's the key, and I keep telling you that. When we determine the original tasks of the municipalities, the provinces and the countries, then the provinces will be quickly established because there will be consensus. Until then, you know these experiments, we won't be successful, because we're going to create something that we don't know what it's going to do. And that's crucial for us to define tasks. Because all the basics, not just the basics, the commitment in the constitution is that we need to establish the provinces, and that is, in my opinion, the fastest way to the provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u81	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u82	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about amending the Law on the Financing of the Communities. When we touch this funding and when the word is here, of course we touch the whole of Slovenia. We have talked several times about municipalities in our mandate, 2014–2018. There were also meetings of the National Assembly, where most of the mayors of these municipalities were on the balcony. First of all, I agree with any moment that the mayors will most often or never agree with the funding – I agree with that. But most of all, I'm concerned about the way the mayors treat the municipalities. When we listened to the position of the largest coalition party today, the first part of the position was with our parliamentary group and the second part with the mayors. Few have been trained, which they do not do properly, where they should be better, why they are not justified, but of course this is said by the man who is at home in Ljubljana. In Ljubljana I am proud as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia that the capital is arranged, I have no concerns here, but of course Slovenia is not only Ljubljana. In the past, when we speak of the congregations, as well as of the fellow who represented the position, he said that it would likely be necessary to consider these small congregations, whether they were needed or not, to put them somewhere or to unite. Let me make it clear that I have enough experience here to claim that small municipalities in Slovenia have certainly done their great job in the past and they have great merit that the development of these municipalities and, as a result, our country has been so successful and is at such a level. In small congregations, most people who then divide within the congregation into village communities, local communities, while watching them, make two euros out of one euro. In what large cities, however, an investment is likely to make a single euro of 0.50 cents. A member of one congregation wrote to me today that we are now counting the cents when it comes to congregations, and that he firmly believes that small congregations will make this bill if something does not change between the first and the second readings, the injured ones, this afternoon we are talking about the cents and this afternoon we are talking about a billion, about a thousand million. I come from the congregation, whose budget is on average between 9 and 11 million, but this afternoon we spoke about a thousand million who have gone in the past in a way that is otherwise foreign to private pockets. At this point, however, we are counting the cents, and I firmly believe that with this proposal, because I also listened to the largest coalition party, its attitude towards municipalities and mayors, small municipalities in this segment will lose again. This does not seem right to me, and I think it would be fair, but just as my colleague Žnidar said in this room that we are also looking for opportunities for congregations, it does not always matter that they should be given money where it can be saved. Let me also mention that any agreement the municipality expects from the State or from the State from various ministries, Arso or any other must be paid richly. When we look for some provisions to give to municipalities financially less, but at the same time each day we impose more obligations on them, I think it would be appropriate to look here for opportunities and opportunities to help the congregations. Let me finish, but above all, I'm concerned about this relationship with the mayors. But let me remind everyone who might forget that the mayor is going to the polls and running with his name and last name, there's nowhere to hide. It is there with the name and surname and most Slovenian mayors, when you accompany them, are extremely good and fight for their municipalities, for their citizens and, of course, for the development of their municipalities. Since we have such people by the municipalities, there can be better development in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u83	Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare the mags. Bojana Muršič and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The sense of local self-government is certainly decentralisation and every law we receive should, in my opinion, follow these guidelines and this sense in the context of the functioning of the municipalities. If we want to receive accurate information on this law today, whether it is centralisation or decentralisation, I think we should have a very accurate calculation of the appropriate consumption for each municipality according to this formula that is before us. We have already received quite a few formulas in Slovenia, let's just remember the rehabilitation of banks, for which no one knew exactly what this calculation would bring, but the account was very high, 5.2 billion. This formula, which we have proposed in this law, would necessarily be necessary, not only properly, but it is imperative that an integral part of the bill is also a calculation of the appropriate consumption for each congregation, and that we do not have Members in front of us. But this is a key information that we can assess whether it is a centralisation or a process of decentralisation in Slovenia. I will only remind you of the following fact that Mail is also trying to act as if it is not a public service, but it is abolishing its businesses in Slovenia. If we add banks that we somehow understand are trying to be marketed, although, given the funds invested in them, it is difficult for you to understand that they are shutting down their businesses, but that should certainly not be the case in the post office. And when we look at the content of this law, at least in the part where it is possible to come to some conclusions, follow the logic that you are actually reducing the possibility of developing municipalities where the development needs are the greatest. I hope to make this assessment precisely because you raise the standard from two municipalities to at least three in the pooling of individual sources of municipal administrations, while at least three more joint tasks must be performed if they are to achieve 40% funding. So far, it has been considered that if two municipalities join up with specific tasks, they have the possibility to co-finance these tasks 50%. Why you're interfering with this system makes no sense to me. Moreover, if we had before us all the detailed analysis of which administrations they are, and this should again be an integral part of this law, which parts of the administrations have been brought together, they would probably have come to the conclusion that the local inspection services and registries were the ones who received the most mergers or joint tasks, and that they were in fact the potential that led the mayors and the municipal councils to take decisions on the common municipal registrar or inspection services. And to these same services, which were the initiator of bringing this together, you are now taking the means of this bill. I really don't get it. Moreover, we cannot view the law as a separate law because we also have a building law in the procedure, which imposes additional tasks on the same local inspectors. The State construction inspection, if I call it that, will no longer deal with constructions that do not require a building permit, but will be the responsibility of local inspectors. First of all, it is very difficult to control buildings for which no building permit has been issued, much easier when this process runs and then you have timely control over it. And since this apparently cannot be done by the state, it is passed on to the congregations. In particular, you are reducing funds to these inspectors and to these services, but at the same time we are imposing greater powers on the other law. Yeah, it doesn't work together. Or if this law and construction in this content are already being passed, then we can be sure that the inspection of black constructions or constructions that will be out of control, if I may say so, will be significantly greater. Is the aim of enacting laws to actually take the opportunity for regulators to better organise themselves when they have multiple tasks? I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. In Slovenia, we have a lot of cases where we have very large cases of corruption and other matters, of course, which are related because regulatory authorities do not work. And here too is the issue of corruption within this system. There is a very high risk of corruption in construction, land exchange, and so on. And if this law is once again in this context, and it is built up in order to gain greater authority, and you reduce the funds here, control will certainly go down. With regard to other matters relating to the conditions of co-financing of investments, it would also be necessary to have an overview of how much co-financing would be given to an individual municipality, so as to have a thorough review in the National Assembly as well as a view to allowing weaker municipalities to invest on the basis of the amended law to a greater extent and thereby reduce these differences in development. A number of issues are raised in this proposal. And however I look at it, it is one of those that is also extremely important, and if I have understood the Minister correctly, in article 20, you, by co-financing the realization of the rights of the national communities and the Roma community, delete that part that relates to the permanent inhabited Roma ethnic community in the individual community. You're deleting that. If I understand the Minister correctly, you are deleting because all congregations should have equal conditions. So where Roma communities live, they should also have equal conditions if I understood it correctly. But, Your Honor, if you want to achieve this, you must first amend the Law on Local Self-Government and include all those congregations that have Roma communities in this law to have their own saint. There are now only 20 municipalities in Slovenia that have a saint, and Roma certainly live in other municipalities, or at least in a much larger number of municipalities than there are 20. If you want to level the terms, then you need to amend the Law on Local Self-Government and include all those municipalities that have Roma in order to have a Roma saint. This is the right approach to equality. However, if you delete in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities the provision that municipalities that have a Roma councillor are entitled to additional resources because they have to solve the additional problem and additional tasks that this councilor certainly sets up in the municipal council, then you have caused inequality. So this solution is completely unacceptable and incorrect. And I have a feeling that everywhere you didn't want to regulate the implementation of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, and at this point you didn't arrange it, because obviously this funding for those 20 municipalities with the law was not regulated. Even if I look at the fact that it is necessary to negotiate with municipalities the amount of appropriate spending, we are monitoring for years that there is no way to reach that common point in order to agree on the appropriate amount of the average with the municipalities. If we just look at the full average today, we should give 88 million more funds to the congregations. I will just remind you that we have recently dealt with an intervention law in the field of health, which allocated 136 million in one year after a very fast procedure and did not hesitate at all. I am sure that if the municipalities receive these 88 million, there is no need to change this law, and that 88 million of them will indeed create added value, as Slovenia has also been through the financial and economic crisis because the municipalities have played their part, invested, developed. Also, the intervention, I will say, within the Public Finance Regulation Act, so-called Zuyf, was not actually carried out in the congregation, and this also largely saved Slovenia. Instead of the projected decline in economic growth in 2014, we recorded economic growth largely due to the investments of municipalities. This potential, respectable, must not be wasted and I appeal to you more strongly that, as the Government, it is necessary to come up with solutions that will give these 88 million to the congregations and that this law will not have to be amended. I see no other reason for this change as precisely because the Government is not prepared to negotiate with the municipalities on this average, even the law states that if they do not agree, the budget simply takes into account the Government's proposal. What, though, will be the negotiations with the congregations when we make the law that if there is no agreement with the congregations, the government will be able to come up with a proposal of average, which it will only wish for? This significantly reduces the bargaining option for the congregations. This is certainly a principle that I cannot support, because I am sure that we can easily use 88 million municipalities in Slovenia, and this money will become an plenipotentiary, it will actually be an added value and our GDP will be higher than if we restrict municipalities. However, it is necessary to have a complete picture before you engage in such laws as the Law on the Financing of the Congregations. And this is really bad, so I will not support it even now in this general debate, even with any amendments – of course, we will continue to make decisions if the marriage goes forward, but – it seems better to me that we reject the law already in this debate. And I really appeal, we provide this 88 million because we can provide them and there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u85	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Clearly, what has been heard today also from the debates, we are talking about a very important law that touches all of us. Local self-government is carried out in municipalities that solve our problems, and the mayors are constantly confronted with the unlimited needs of our citizens, but they demand that these problems be solved immediately. We ourselves know that natural disasters occur, that the congregation is the first intervention where it needs to be approached, and it also needs funds and cannot wait for the country. Thus, the financing of public funds must follow the assigned tasks and obligations imposed by the State with its powers and laws to the municipalities. The Court of Auditors has clearly replied that this is not merely a matter of clearly defining the mandatory tasks, but of more equitable distribution of funds between municipalities, and that the participation of all associations in the negotiations on setting the average should also be specified. We ourselves know that these negotiations take place from year to year, and we are always, when there is some consensus, at the beginning. I also believe that it is necessary for local communities to encourage investment, especially when they have the opportunity to run for European projects, because only by drawing on European projects ensures the equitable development of the regions. At the same time, it is important to note that the municipalities are very difficult to plan investments, because they do not know from year to year how much money they will have, how much they can owe, and in these cases it is very difficult to plan investments, so it is necessary to provide the municipalities with funds, some continuity and these changes should not be much. The congregations themselves are constantly reminding us that there is a gap between tasks and funding and that this gap has been declining ever since 2010. However, it should also be pointed out that the municipalities did not receive fewer tasks in order to reduce funding. The tasks remained, and there may have been additional tasks and they simply wonder how to proceed. In the current funding system, according to my opinion, there is little consideration for the diversity of municipalities, so I welcome the proposal made in the law to take into account the older population, over 75 years of age, because we know that the demographic picture is getting worse or older, that there is increasing domestic protection, and that the municipalities have to devote significantly more resources to home protection than they had had to do decades ago. It is also important to give additional weight to young people, up to 6 years old, because children attend kindergarten and municipalities must thus finance salaries in kindergarten, as well as invest in development itself, and we are here again in investments of key importance. However, I must say that in view of all the material we have received from the congregations and also from the Congregations and from today's calls, it will be in our eyes to reject this law due to inadequate proposed changes. I must say that I am sad that there is simply no consensus that you do not sit together and find compromise solutions. We have also heard today that there is still no consensus on the average for 2018 and 2000. It would touch a little more on the work of the Joint Municipal Administrations. In fact, this also escapes me, in the new proposal we have the possibility or will only be co-financed by those joint municipalities that will join the three municipalities and perform three tasks, and the funding will be 40%. So far, it has been the responsibility of two municipalities and two or more of the tasks they perform and they have received 50% funding. I think that such a proposal, which has been in force so far, is good, but it is true that municipalities that have fewer than 5,000 people, 110 municipalities, between 5,000 and 10,000 people are 48, between 10,000 and 50,000 people are 50, and some are municipalities that are more than 50,000, which is significantly less. Normally, small municipalities need cooperation, integration, and I welcome in this proposal that the set of tasks with which joint municipal administrations can obtain funding increases from 6 to 11 tasks, but I think it is necessary to look at what they will achieve with these tasks of the municipal administration. Here we need to be very careful that we will not have any compromises, and that the tasks will not be done as they should be, and that some municipal administrations will not be terminated for this reason. In the past, joint municipal administrations have been established mainly in the field of inspection supervision, regulation, which I think was good, we now also have the possibility of legal services, municipal authorities, internal audit. The internal audit I think is good because these internal audits are already occurring in associations, and I think that there are specialists here who can then perform tasks better than an internal audit in a small municipality, which is almost impossible to provide with adequate staff. Environmental protection has already occurred, and I believe that these tasks are good. Here it would be possible to consider in detail whether this correction of three municipalities and three tasks is correct or not if the law will receive support for further consideration. I must certainly say that there is a need for dialogue between associations, and there must be compromises, because I believe that we all want local communities to develop together. In local communities, investments have been made on the basis of European funds over the past years, and this has raised GDP, and I think that we must continue in this place, we must not seek to see the municipalities lifted again, and we must help them by somehow implementing our local self-government in these municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u87	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec, and then we are already going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will be given the floor by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, Minister! Local self-government is 23 years old, and in 1994 the first elections were held, and since then we have such congregations as these. You know, time has come to realize that the money invested in the congregations was the best invested in the construction of the municipal infrastructure. Nevertheless, what is the situation with regard to the public economic service, which is the foundation of the congregations, the work of the congregations, towards European countries, to which we like to compare ourselves? First around the water supply. 300,000 Slovenians drink reputable drinking water after 23 years of local self-government. We put the right to drinking water in the constitution. Romani communities are without drinking water, we are building a hall for those 300,000 Slovenians who do not have drinking water We know that more and more sprinkles are coming into the local waters pesticides, nitrates and so on. [[…]] What is the effect on human health? Has anyone done the analysis? Nobody. It does not matter, nothing needs to be done for under 50 people on a water source, but the law requires plants to chlorate this water supply, which destroy bacteria, but do not destroy pesticides, nitrates, chemicals. There is no analysis on these water sources, but there has been a huge investment in this infrastructure. The removal and treatment of waste water, we have promised Europe that by a certain time we will be able to flush all municipal or waste water into the groundwater. Where are we? What did we do? The operational programme, which determines where the sewers must be, is socially unacceptable. It defines agromeliorations where sewerages should be built, cleaning plants which are five times or more expensive than small cleaning appliances. The three-directional watercourses were banned in our country, only cleaning appliances were allowed everywhere in Europe. He's with us now, after all. Why? How far are we with these sewers? I don't think the Municipality of Ljubljana has this set up yet. This can be completed with the last cohesion project, but not yet. How much money does it take for congregations to complete this? I think it's going into billions of dollars. From where? From the checkers? Let me tell you, yesterday, in the municipal council, we accepted the price of water supply when we calculate all points of utilities, water supply, separation and treatment of municipal water and waste management, amounts to a four-member family when 16 cubic metres of water is consumed per month of 92 euros. By including these projects, which are now being built on water supply, the new cleaning plant, which is urgently needed, will be worth €120, of which €60. When primary water is built, people wonder what the price of water will be where it is not yet available. Will someone with a pension of 400 euros be able to afford all these bills? If it is only one, it will naturally be a little lower, but still very tall. Is that socially acceptable? Farmers are threatening to go build wells because they can't afford that price. Not to mention waste management. Today I received a ZEG report on Cerod and there is a finding that Dolenjci are paid 2.7 times the price of others in Slovenia. This is not as much a waste as it should be, where further investments are needed to follow European guidelines so that I do not know 2025, 2030 will no longer dispose of mixed municipal waste. Where are we on the state level? Are these waste management centers really a matter of congregations? Why is the congregation’s public service? We have already proposed several times that the country should take this into its own hands in the regions. Of course, you, the ministry responsible for local self-government, don't care because it's an environmental ministry. I say this because I think that the congregations do not have their own representative in the government, and I should be very strong, which would then be coordinated with the various ministries that charge the work of municipalities without money in order to settle this. To be a representative of the municipalities in the government, we don't have one. Let's get on the road. 23,000 km of municipal roads in Slovenia is on private land. The 17 municipalities have already cancelled a municipal postponement on road categorisation, which was done by the Constitutional Court. In these congregations it is very difficult to obtain building permits for each investor because he has to obtain all the services from the state or from that road that has all the property to itself. There may be 20 of them, the cost of each service is about 130 euros. And it's not just one for everyone, each for himself. When are we gonna fix this? Whose concern is that? Is this ministry something, or is it just a congregation? No one's worried. In order to regulate this, the Constitutional Court had decided, years ago, that the congregation should regulate this in one year. Assessing geodetic services, just to measure these lands, the geodetic management has estimated about two billion. Just to measure it, not to buy it back. Do we have in law, spatial law, or any other option for congregations to arrange this? No, no, no. Because they do not have the opportunity in any law to conduct a geodesy, to determine a plot, or to dissipate for the public benefit, following an emergency procedure. There's no law, there's no procedure. The owner has the right to dig a paved municipal road and no one can harm him, even by judicial practice. The case of Slovenske Konjice – nothing because it is private property. Then I'll be a preschooler or a preschooler. Almost ten years ago, 40, 45, 50 % were enrolled in kindergartens, now 85% and more at the same average as it was then. It is necessary to build kindergartens, it is necessary to provide two thirds of the care services, pay the municipality on average, one third of the parents. The cost of protecting a child without the cost of depreciating a kindergarten is 5,000 euros a year. Are we so rich that we can handle this? The biggest cost of the congregation is the cost of kindergarten, the protection of preschool children. As I once made fun of myself, the congregation is most likely left if a kindergarten is burned because it is no longer necessary to pay for children because it has no kindergarten. Spatial legislation. There are 300,000 buildings in Slovenia, which are built in non-compliance with the regulations, a few tens of thousands without building permits, without paying municipal contributions – to whom? I'm courting. The municipalities don't even have a record of who has a building permit and who doesn't. We need to request an administrative unit, wait for them to get the information. They get a copy for all the new ones. I was the mayor myself when we didn't know. And now the legislation we're going to have again in a good week is not regulating that. It is not regulated by municipal decrees on the categorisation of municipal roads, the resolution of this problem, nor by legalisation. Why could countries such as Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina adopt this legislation, and 2011 and 2012 and not be required in Slovenia? We who have been the most advanced of all the republics of the former Yugoslavia can do our own thing! Some congregations have not yet adopted the UN — why? Because it's easier if they don't have them, they can just build. What kind of action? He's not here. It's better for those who have been built past the rules. Thus, the community, which has a double electoral right at the local level, can have built houses on foreign land and no one. Now we're gonna get them some water. Then who are the other citizens, the other species? If we are to adopt or amend legislation, an analysis of the situation must first be carried out. But we will have an analysis of the situation when representatives of the municipalities sit like this, those who gave 2, 3 mayoral mandates through which they will feel. This is the work of neighbouring Croatia and the best people from the municipalities are drawn to the government at the ministries. Yesterday, I spoke to an expert from the Ministry of the Environment about water supply, and he convinced me what is an individual utility connection to the pipeline — from the main water across the state road, across the municipal road, across the foreign land to the counter — is an individual connection in private ownership, which must be paid by the one from the cave ahead in addition to the municipal contribution. For 13 years, I was the mayor of the local community, and I always thought that public municipal infrastructure was the counter operated by the commune. No! No! Now I find out it's a private connection, and the one from the counter to the house is the installation. Such an expert from the Ministry of Municipality! And then I ask the commune what the practice is, they say otherwise! And we adopted a decree yesterday that doesn't say so, not like that, but everyone can explain it in their own way. Do you know what it means if there are 10 houses on one side of the road that each one pulls for himself across the state road from the main water their connection? Finally, it is found that since there are so many houses, there must be a fire hydrant according to the regulations, and then the municipality will pull the pipe fi 80. Those are our rules, you idiot! And then we dig it, dig asphalt and flip it every year. That's not 20 years ago, that's today. And then it's no wonder that in many municipalities, in the second year of local elections, mayors and candidates will not have a candidate. It could happen that there will be no one! And I said this once before, and my colleague Han laughed at me when I said that they'd have to be looked for at the VDC, a security center, if anyone wanted to run for mayor. But he's responsible for everything with his signature, and he's responsible for it. For all that the municipal council accepts, if it is not legal, it can refuse, and then it can be done as in Costajevica, Krka, when the damage is done, the next point we have today. No wonder government officials teach municipal officials to interpret legislation like that. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. Maybe some kind of banana Republic. When we adopt this spatial legislation, which I don't understand, and many others don't, nor mayors or carriers, many – you'll get it through, of course you'll unlock it to do something. You didn't do anything. Nothing. It's a bigger mess. I think it would be good to at least take Croatian laws into our hands to learn from them how Croatia of 800,000 such objects has legalized in a few years. In our marriage, however, any facility 20 years of age can be legalized by simple procedure. And whoever's 15 years old will be waiting for 20, instead of giving three years of time, to legalize under such conditions. You know why? Until the real records are correct, the property tax will be abolished by the Constitutional Court. Ask the Ministry of Finance. But we don't need it, we'll make up records. The parishioners, who have been trying to figure out how to get the right records, can say, not the students there who walk on the ground and ask what's what, but measure a little. These are now our records, rather than allowing the legalisation process to be such that the facility is then introduced into the earth cadaster of buildings, and that the minimum technical documentation is that the municipality can honestly measure the municipal contribution and then by this municipal contribution builds the municipal infrastructure so that those 300,000 Slovenes can have healthy drinking water, with which we boast about how much we have. Just like Venezuela, on the oil itself, and there's no gas on the pumps! We have not done anything in these 23 years, the congregations are being tortured, and then government officials are deceiving them, misinterpreting legislation instead of correcting, improving, doing the opposite. There's quite a few laws that choke. I said that I would start to amend the Butal rules in the National Assembly, one went through yesterday, but I have some other cases: ranking on the highway at a standstill, we have the Mining Act that made it impossible, closed small quarryes, the municipalities do not get concessions, the semi-exploited quarryes are closed. Why? I know that when the highway cross was being built, all the major construction companies had somehow adopted all the quarryes to serve well, but then it happened that they were mainly bankrupt, and Slovenia had lost its construction material. And then — and I was one of those who were sued by the state for grand theft because of a municipal quarry or from a local community that is now closed in half and would be very useful in building a municipal infrastructure where it is built by road or road or by road, and now a tampon from another municipality is imported to earn money, and because of the new regulations we have a wound in the room. I think it was in the beginning or before this government, 2014 was adopted. As for the adoption of spatial acts, it has been said 15 years ago, first we need to identify the legal situation we have in the field and then start with a strategy how we will tackle this as easily as possible, as painlessly as possible – it has never been done. The inspector told me that you have a thousand illegal constructions within 48 square kilometres in the municipality. They only act if they report it. I've been thinking about going on my own and giving 500 applications and saving them. In neighbouring Austria or Italy, the mayor is responsible for one illegal construction because he has not cashed the charges, gets the criticism if it is more than that, but must also resign or is no longer elected. It's a national sport with us! The one building on black has no problems, and the one looking for consent is looking for five years to get a building permit. What kind of country are we? That is why, and now to come to that strategy for the development of local self-government, which has raised my temperature. As all the congregations have already said, in the strategy adopted by the Government, this is the same as I would say that the cleaning staff in Parliament have adopted the rules of procedure. A strategy for three or four years where the strategy states that it is necessary to establish an administrative district – an administrative district, what is it? – that there is no political will for the provinces. That's what the strategy says. It's not political will. You know, when I was with the soldiers, they said, if you say, I can't, he's a station attendant, an ambulance, if you say, I don't want to, but he's a prison. And if it's written in the strategy that there's no political will, something that's written in the constitution, then he has to do something else, if he's not willing, and if he's not able to do it. How much inconvenience there are in cohesion projects more municipalities, how easy it would be if they were landscapes. I have already said why regional development agencies do not take over the management of these projects if we already have them in statistical regions. Oh, no! One congregation stands up as an investor and then they say in their reports, we have absorbed 220 million European money. Yeah, five more congregations, but it's all going through them. So, it's a lot to do. I myself went to coordination through the Community of Municipalities around the average, and I know what was going on, and we haven't even agreed once. I tell them that it is necessary to take the congregation’s catalogue of competences into their hands, 170 or more, and to go to the indent of the indent — the law, the regulation, the rule, what it brings to the congregation, what work it gives and the end, how much money to unlock. I am convinced that more than 50 of these tasks, which do not belong to the congregations that have been enforced because the state has not been able to do so, could be given to the State. There are a lot of regulations and regulations that go beyond the laws we adopt here, extra costs and tasks that no one is aware of. This needs to be clarified once, as is the case in the area, and it also needs to be determined here what is the state of competence and the provision of state money for these post-constitutional tasks. It's gonna have to be done once, but I don't know which government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u89	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor and then the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you, President, for your word. I'll continue where my colleague, Janko Weber, has finished, we need calculations. We only need one calculation on average. The government writes in the introduction of the law, “analysis has shown that the current model of average calculation needs to be improved in the future”. In Article 3 of the Act, you write down "the methodology for calculating the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks is determined by the Government by a regulation". Your Honor, what analyses have been made? That's the first question. Will the average be improved, read more? This is what the congregations understand. And for the third time, do you already have this methodology that you have mentioned in the law and that the Government is supposed to adopt it by regulation? Fourthly, why methodologies for calculating the average costs for the financing of municipalities are not laid down by law. If the Government sets up a methodology by regulation, we can get a new methodology every few months, and as has been said, the municipality will have no idea how to plan serious financing, serious investment in the following year, in the coming years. Even more so, the question of average is questionable, or your intention, when you write that the financial effects of this law do not come into play. Then what are you going to change? Then you're going to change this variable a little bit, and the rest is going to be the same? Or it's your intention, and that's why we're asking for a calculation of what the average is going to be. The other thing about average, before, my colleague Jani Möderndorfer was very much in the dark, and I do not agree with him completely in anything, except in one matter that yes, I am still young, thank you. How that notorious Janšev government destroyed the funding of the municipalities and how dissatisfied they all were — no, one congregation, his congregation appealed to the Constitutional Court regarding this law and the Constitutional Court unanimously ruled that Ljubljana was wrong about the law. In practice, this meant that 208, 209 congregations were very pleased with that law, and one, probably some additional, was a little less satisfied. When did the congregation’s satisfaction begin to diminish? When governments have written after 2010 with each other, with every third law somewhere: the municipality, new tasks; the municipality, new tasks, social, health, education, including entrepreneurship, not least, new substantive obligations, but not followed by financial obligations, as the average shows. From 2012 to 2017 it went all the way down, and now we are three euros less than the average in 2012. So, 2006 was a good marriage. Before that, it was said that two of them were always required to compromise. Of course it is said by the Member who comes from Ljubljana and who speaks from a position of power, if we, we are the majority, we are hung down. This is also demonstrated in practice by the Government's agreement with the association and the community of municipalities on the average, and ultimately by a power argument rather than a content argument. In my opinion, Your Honor, this is a very poor partnership. This is about as if my wife had been talking about where we're going to sea for six months, and in the end my husband would have said, "Look, it's nice to talk about where we're going to go to sea, but the compromise will be so that we can go where I say it." It's not a compromise, Your Honor. And as I said before, if you take new assignments, my colleague Jani said that this is stimulation — no, this is the punishment of the congregations. However, as regards appropriate spending, honourable representatives of the Government, I really hope that you will bring an analysis of the current situation and after the adoption of this law if it will go through, of course. Last thing, it was said that the MPs were committed to the mayors. That's not true at all. However, it is a fact that there is a difference that some Members understand the mayors, but some of them you do not understand. That's the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u91	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nitz Brezovar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Thank you, too, for an interesting debate, although somewhat inaccurate in certain parts, but let me make some clarifications. As far as the proposed amendment to the Law on the Financing of the Communities is concerned, we must certainly not talk about any revolution, namely, evolution, the creation of a more advanced model and, above all, the elimination of certain anomalies that have been found in the last ten years since the law was adopted, that is, since 2007. In fact, by this law and the solutions that we propose in it, as the Government, we are addressing in some way the shortcomings that the Court of Auditors has also identified in its report or in its audit. We viewed this audit as positive, that is, we ourselves were aware of some problems, anomalies, and have therefore decided to address them appropriately. Not only do we respond to the Court of Auditors by means of this law, but we also implement the 2016 Constitutional Court decision, which takes into account, when the average is established, a wider part, namely the macroeconomic situation of public finances. It is also true that both the State and the municipalities are partners. Many times I can say that we are partners, and this partnership is also manifested through consultations. When it comes to averages, there are many talks about negotiations, but perhaps this is not negotiations at the end, because the last words do not have a government, but you, honourable Members and Members, have a National Assembly with the adoption of a law on the implementation of budgets. And this is totally constitutionally acceptable, and the Constitutional Court has said that it is not only the responsibility of the National Assembly, but the duty to take care of the wider public interest, and thus the stability of public finances, in the first place. This is also one of the solutions that we will include in this law. As regards cooperation with mayors and also with associations, we have sat several times, not only seven times, perhaps seven times with all associations, we also sit several times on average negotiations, because it is primarily the duty of the municipalities to express their opinion. It is therefore primarily about the strength of the argument, not so much about the argument of power. However, as we have already said, the last word is yours in the end. We are also often partners, and I can say in person that sometimes we even miss representatives of associations. For example, when we negotiated with the public sector unions. The representatives of the municipalities have their representatives in a wider government negotiating group, that is, when a contract is signed, in this case we speak of the public sector, and this has an impact on all around 4 thousand 500 public servants employed in the municipalities. The municipalities claimed that this increased their costs. Of course they do, but I missed their active participation in these negotiations, and their representatives weren't there. Nevertheless, this government has taken these costs into account and has therefore raised the average over the past year, as we know, by 3 euros and a half. This is due, inter alia, to successful negotiations with the public sector unions. As far as other cooperation is concerned, this government has amended the guidelines for implementing the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in such a way that every law drawn up and having any effect or effect on municipalities is consulted. So, he consults with all three associations, including the Association of Municipal Communities, which is not yet representative. Otherwise, we will settle this with the proposal of the Law on Local Self-Government. So certainly in our dealings with the congregations, we want to be inclusive and certainly understand them as partners. Maybe a little bit about compromises, a lot of compromises have been made in the drafting of this law. It has already been mentioned, as far as Article 26 or the common municipal administrations are concerned, that we have somehow incorporated the Community proposal of the municipalities of Slovenia. Indeed, this proposal before you is the result of compromise, consultation and coordination, so it is not an expression of will on the one hand alone. Perhaps even the incomes of the congregations, which were still a hot topic today. More than once, it has already been mentioned that the average is increasing, and the proposal will continue to be somewhat higher. As for the congregation’s indebtedness, the congregations are becoming less and less indebted. Therefore, in recent years they are reducing their indebtedness; in 2015, total indebtedness decreased by 4%, by 2.5% in 2016. The vast majority of congregations also show surpluses. So in any case, we can also talk about a positive trend regarding the state of finances of municipal budgets. In addition, the Government went to the municipalities with an agreement on November 2014, when they reached agreement with the President of the Government on 34 concrete measures to reduce the costs of municipalities, of which a large majority had already been implemented. We are not just talking about some new tasks, we are also talking about the deadline offered in reducing the costs of municipalities. In any case, there are some coordination and mutual assistance. In the meantime, administrative units were also mentioned and how municipalities receive new tasks, while administrative units receive new jobs. As the ministry responsible for administrative units, I can at least state here that this is not true, namely, since 2004, the number of employees in administrative units has decreased from around 3 000 100 civil servants to around 2 000 250 while increasing the number of tasks or responsibilities they are obliged to provide and carry out. Let me also mention that user surveys on satisfaction with services at very high levels at administrative units are therefore very positive despite the smaller number of employees and the increased number of tasks. If you allow me, I would now review these six key solutions and address certain topics or problems you mentioned in the middle, but I will try to be as brief as possible. As for the changed formula for calculating appropriate consumption, it was evident that we were somehow neglecting small congregations. In any case, we cannot talk about smaller congregations, but we can talk mainly about stronger and weaker congregations. Indeed, a few small congregations are actually those that are economically highly developed, which are in fact also solidarity with other congregations. Part of the surplus is then distributed in solidarity. As we know, we have double solidarity in the community funding system, so there is no attempt at centralisation or anything like that. If we move on to the inflation cut. This was normal in a number of laws already, namely, inflation has resulted in an unwarranted artificial increase in that part of income, so that we simply follow the guidelines already in some legislation. As far as co-financing by joint municipal administrations is concerned, the system works well, it is true. As many as 195 congregations, the vast majority is involved in one way or another in the system of joint municipal administrations. This does not mean that the system cannot function better, and this is the purpose of this change. As I said, this one was particularly coordinated with the congregations’ associations. Indeed, more tasks are expected, but of course there is also an incentive, which can now be financed up to 55%. Therefore, there is also some incentive to further improve the system, which is well-functioning, in order to provide better quality services for citizens and citizens. As far as the article on the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities or the co-financing of the municipalities is concerned, I would like to thank Mr Gönç for a truly correct debate, even in the past, I think we have coordinated quite a bit. I also understand today this initiative, which I have personally heard for the first time, this proposal. But I'm not going to touch that much, even though some correctional was made here, because with 0.145% of the appropriate consumption, we also have this amount, I'll say, slightly more than symbolically raised to 1.5. As far as the work on the removal of the Roma community is concerned, it is certainly not true, for the purpose of this amount or purpose of these funds is bilingual and ensuring the functioning of the municipal national communities. Much of the funds are therefore bilingual. As already mentioned, there is a new law in preparation to regulate the situation of the Roma community. This is about concrete solutions. Perhaps I can also address the issue of the regions because they have been exposed so many times. As it has been written, we are talking about the gradual strengthening of regional structures, it is true that we know the regional development agencies, the saints, they are already well-functioning and, as such, they are also a basis for further action, and we are primarily seeing developments in the direction of the so-called functional regions already known by some other countries, Finland, Ireland, Bulgaria and so on, where we would carry out certain wider regional tasks. So at some, as already mentioned, regional level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Is there any other desire for discussion? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes the 22nd item of the agenda. We're crossing 28th. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a conclusion on the elimination of illegal equality in the community of boneheads on the neck. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State, Dr. Nejc Bezovar. Secretary of State, Dr. Nic Bezovar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance, each in their field of work, have been actively monitoring the situation and developments in the Municipality of Kostanjevica, Krka. The issue itself is multi-layered and substantively very diverse. As such, special attention was given to the adoption of the budget of the municipality, as both the most responsible authorities of the municipality, namely the mayor and the municipal council, did not agree on the expected and legal procedure for the adoption of the necessary budgetary documents. The Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krka in May or now we are talking already in the autumn months there are still no adopted and validated budgetary documents for 2016, which is, of course, inconsistent with the rules governing public finances. In March of this year, the Ministry of Public Administration therefore received the official written position of the Ministry of Finance to meet the conditions for the initiation of the procedure for the dissolution of the municipal council. From the documentary evidence requested and obtained from the two municipal authorities by the Ministry responsible for Local Self-Government in March 2017, the mayor was found to have proposed a budget for 2016, which was also included on the agenda of two regular and two extraordinary meetings of the Municipal Council between December 2015 and November 2016, and the draft budgets for 2017 and 2018, which were included on the agenda of two meetings of the Municipal Council between November 2016 and February 2017. The documentation shows that the mayor acted in accordance with the law and that the responsibility for not accepting the budget is only on the municipal council. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because of the above-mentioned facts, proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia initiate a formal procedure for the early dissolution of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 90c of the Law on Local Self-Government on the Early Dismantling of the Municipal Council, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall decide. Before issuing a decision on the dissolution of the municipal council, the National Assembly must alert the congregation to its unlawful conduct and suggest that it remove this illegality within 30 days. If the municipal council is acting in accordance with a warning, the National Assembly shall terminate the discharge procedure by a decision if not, take a decision on early dissolution and call for early elections. The Municipal Council therefore has 30 days to appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Baby Verbich. Here you go, mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. As many fellow ministers as are left, ambassadors and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 38th regular session. 9. 2017 discussed the Proposal for a Decision on the Elimination of Unlawful Conduct in the Municipality of Kostanjevica, Krka, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 90(c) of the Law on Local Self-Government for consideration. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. In an additional explanation, the representative of the proposed State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration stressed that the proposed decision constituted a formal opening of the procedure for the early dissolution of the municipal council, since it had not adopted the municipal budget for the second consecutive year or for the years 2016 and 2017. This is one of the worst violations in the field of local self-government, since it prevents the self-regulation of own affairs in the local community. The budget, as a key financial component of the regulation of the independent management of local affairs, is one of the fundamental components of the very essence of local self-government. If the budget is not adopted, the core tasks in the local community simply cannot be carried out or carried out to an extent limited or substantially reduced. At the same time, the municipality is subject to developmental distortions, no new investment or debt, and it is not possible to run for European funds. The financing of public institutions, the founder of which is the municipality, as well as certain non-governmental organisations, is also difficult and substantially limited. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the PSC, which, inter alia, indicates that the proposal for a decision by content relates to the procedure for the early dissolution of the municipal council governed by article 90c of the Law on Local Self-Government. This procedure is part of the regime governing the supervision of State authorities over the work of local authorities, as provided for in Article 144 of the Constitution. The adoption of the decision under consideration submitted by the Government therefore constitutes the first stage of the entire procedure for the dissolution of the municipal council. The Council of State presented the written opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which endorsed the proposal for a decision in the form presented unanimously. The discussion was attended by the Mayor of the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krka, the Municipal Councillor and the representative of the Association of Municipal municipalities. Members and members of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government both from coalition and opposition groups stressed in the debate that the situation in the municipality was indeed unsustainable. There is no doubt that the constitutionally secured autonomy of local self-government must be respected, but it cannot be boundless. Finally, in view of the comments raised, the representative first explained that the Ministry of Public Administration could not have taken action in the light of the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, as the legal conditions were not met in a particular case. These were not completed until March 2017 when they were established by the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal for a decision and adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft decision on the working body, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a decision on the abolition of illegal behaviour in the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues who insist! We have before us the Proposal for a Decision on the Elimination of Unlawful Conduct in the Municipality of Kostanjevica na Krka. The reason why the Government submitted this proposal for a decision to the National Assembly is the non-acceptance of the Court's budget for 2016 and 2017. Without the adoption of the budget in the local community, they cannot carry out a core task or be carried out to a limited extent. In addition, the non-acceptance of the 2016 and 2017 budget will have consequences in the coming years. We can say that because of the two-year period of limited operation of the local community due to the lack of acceptance of the most important act, namely the municipal budget, the municipality has also deteriorated in a developmental sense. Investments are limited, because they cannot provide their own resources, the municipality is prevented from applying to canding on calls for European or national funds. It is also important to say that it is also difficult to finance the various programmes of public institutions, which are the founder of the municipality, and NGOs or associations that operate in the field of the municipality and in which citizens carry out various activities with which they enrich the municipality. Who's responsible for the situation is not important at this point. The fact is that municipal officials, mayors and municipal councillors and councillors did not recognize the damage they are actually doing to the municipality due to the inability to resolve conflicts, the inability to communicate and negotiate and to seek compromises in such an important document as the municipal budget. The figures presented to us by representatives of the competent ministry on the home working body show this in a eloquent way. Due to the disagreements and the non-acceptance of the budget, it was only in 2016 that they were forced to stop or not to start the 32 projects envisaged in the development programme plan, which were part of the 2016 budget and whose total value exceeded EUR 3 million. Social Democrats will be supported by the Proposal for a Decision on the Elimination of Unlawful Conduct in the Municipality of Kostanjevica, Krka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u100	Hello again, everyone who insists! The municipal council is the highest decision-making body on all matters within the framework of the rights and duties of the municipality and is therefore also making the most important decisions for the welfare of its citizens. All members of the municipal council are municipal officials who receive a meeting for their work. Apparently in the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk, some saints who boycott the meetings do not understand their mission very well. In New Slovenia we are convinced that these members should take full responsibility for their conduct, including materially. The fact is that they have not done their work in the way the Local Self-Government Act imposes them, have not adopted draft budgets for two years, nor have they come to the meeting, which is unacceptable and irresponsible for every official who has been trusted by people to decide on the most important matters in their area. No one else can accept the budget instead. It's their duty to do this only to the saints. In this case, the mayor of the municipality carried out his work, prepared a draft budget and submitted it to the municipal council for adoption. What is the procedure for adopting the budget, we know. We also know that the members of the municipal council can propose amending and supplementing the budget with amendments, of course not by requiring other procedures that have nothing to do with the budget and are based on other legal bases. Therefore, if opposition members of the municipal council want to participate constructively in the development of the congregation, they should strive to make their own proposals, which, logically, cannot be done unless they come to the meeting. And here's their responsibility. Therefore, Christian Democrats cannot agree with those who claim that we cannot find fault with today’s situation in this congregation. We're talking about illegal conduct. In the whole process, however, a small part of the responsibility can also be attributed to the Government, which in accordance with the law could have already begun the early dissolution procedure already in March this year and could have taken a decision, as proposed today, before the summer. There is no doubt that the proposal for an end to illegal behaviour is justified, but we doubt that its impact will be positive until the next regular local elections. The early dissolution process of the municipal council, the possibility of filing legal remedies and the early elections of the new municipal council will, in our opinion, be a major obstacle, as it will take a long time. The 30-day deadline for the elimination of the illegal situation, this is for the adoption of the budget, is very short and the question is whether they will now be able to accept it in the municipality. In Novi Slovenije we will support the proposal to eliminate illegal behaviour in the Municipality of Kostanjevica na Krka.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u102	Good evening! The decision to abolish illegal behaviour in the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka clearly shows how much we need to reform local self-government. And I don't mean that fast, with a list of congregations for abolition. We need serious reform with a clear objective and clear priorities. This mandate was an excellent opportunity to leave at least the first round of such reform, and unfortunately we are not. The Minister deals with everything else, and in the field of local self-government, the situation is getting worse. We have a strategy for the development of local self-government and we have mini legal proposals that are in direct conflict with it. We will encourage municipalities to cooperate, unite, as is the case with the strategy, and at the previous item on the agenda, we have considered the Government's proposal to tighten and reduce the incentive for joint municipal administrations. No government simply knows what to do with local self-government or how to work with local self-government. This is clearly evidenced by the fact that the area of each mandate moves from one ministry to another, once a single ministry, once a service, a small part of the Ministry of Home Affairs and so on. Kostanjevica in Krka is an example of what is happening in the field of local self-government while in practice. The system, which allows ten municipal councillors and one mayor to keep all citizens and citizens in check, is simply insurmountable, especially if the reason for peripetia is an unfulfilled pre-election promise about who and how some small money will be distributed. Local elections were held in October 2014, for three years the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka does not actually work, there is no investment, there is no European funding, there is no development. The last budget adopted is from 2015. Of course, the situation is illegal. In Levi, we agree that this needs to be changed. The dissolution of the congregation’s world is evidently the only solution left. None of those involved intends to assume responsibility and do what is necessary, so to withdraw, and they could do so as soon as they have found out that the budget will simply not be adopted. Sometimes it is easy to admit defeat, especially if stubborn persistence in a chess position holds everyone around you. In a given situation, there are certainly short-lived citizens. If there's no budget, there's nothing. They've been lost for three years. I'm sure it won't make up for it. But it could be different. If the majority of the parties in this House were not intimidated by their mayors, they could today have the mayor's recall institute, they could already be preparing the basis for the recall of all other officials. If we did so, perhaps today we would not even consider Kostanjevice on Krka, citizens and citizens could solve the problems themselves quickly and very effectively. If the mayor and the municipal council were to be recalled, the current situation would probably not have occurred, both the mayor and the municipal councilors would have given a good thought to what they were doing. But the customers who have the most local officials are simply against. Unfortunately. As at local level, at the national level, at least for some parties, there is a multiple advantage to society and, as at local level, only voters who can change it are also at national level. Unfortunately, it's still only every four years and without a chance to call it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u104	Good evening, everybody! The government proposes to the National Assembly to initiate the procedure for the early dissolution of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka and to take a decision on the abolition of illegal behaviour in the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka. The competent ministry has been actively monitoring the situation in the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk for a long time, and they pay particular attention to the adoption of the budget of the municipality, since the mayor and the municipal council have not agreed on a procedure for the adoption of the necessary budgetary documents. The municipality still does not have an approved budget for the past and the current year, which is inconsistent with the rules governing public finances and with the Law on Local Self-Government. The last municipal term in Kostanjevica on Krka marks a dispute between the mayor of the municipality and the council majority. This requires a review of the return on investments in the public telecommunications network and the mayor considers that the case is closed and that the procedure is completed. The operation of the congregation council is disabled, and meetings are virtually inconclusive. While the municipality can still be financed after twelve of the last budget adopted, it is clear that the lack of adoption of the budget poses a major developmental problem for the municipality in particular, as it is virtually impossible under such conditions to make any investment and regulate the necessary matters for citizens. It is such a serious violation of the law governing local self-government that the law provides for an extreme measure, the early dissolution of the municipal council. The principles of local self-government are based on the principle of local autonomy, that municipal authorities have their own authority and administrative structure, that they are equipped with their own original powers and are free to carry out matters under their autonomous jurisdiction, which excludes the submission to administrative authorities. Nevertheless, there is sufficient control over the activities of the municipalities to prevent the municipalities from violating the law and from failing to fulfil their tasks under the law. It is our duty to make an assessment of whether such a situation has indeed taken place, so that extreme interference with local self-government autonomy is needed. In this regard, we would like to recall a very similar assessment of the members and members of the competent committee of the urgency of such an intervention, since it is clear that all the positive efforts of certain municipal councilors and the timely active action of the ministry will not bear fruit. It is worth noting that we cannot judge the work of the mayor and municipal councilors, their work is assessed by the citizens in the elections, and the next elections will be an opportunity to assess the responsibility of either the mayor and/or the municipal councilors. The local affairs management system is designed to determine the co-responsibility of the municipal council and the mayor for the legitimate performance of the tasks, municipal councilors and also the mayor are elected directly, but this does not constitute an obstacle to the dissolution of the municipal council if this is an illegal situation in the municipality. Ensuring the functioning of the local self-government system and the legal functioning of the bodies within the meaning of the rule of law are also the responsibility of the National Assembly, so we are obliged to respond decisively before the National Assembly issues a decision on the dissolution of the municipal council, it must remind it of its illegal conduct and propose to it how to remedy illegality within a reasonable time. We will therefore also unanimously support the decision in the SMC Group, by which the National Assembly of the Municipal Council of Kostanjevice on Krka will draw attention to its illegal conduct and invite it to adopt the 2017 and 2018 budgets within 30 days of the adoption of the decision. If the municipal councillors do so, the early dissolution procedure will be halted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting! As it is said, we have before us a motion for a decision on the abolition of illegal conduct in the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka. This is a proposal for a decision by which the Government or the Ministry of Public Administration is lagging behind in our opinion, because we know what the situation in Kostanjevica has been since 2015, when a politically unsustainable situation has arisen in the municipality with regard to funding, namely the implementation of the budget of the Municipality of Kostanjevice in Krk, and also in the light of ensuring the functioning of local self-government, which must always be in the interest of citizens and citizens. In our view, it is undeniable that the Constitution must respect a certain autonomy of local self-government, but it cannot be boundless. The current legislation specifies exactly who is the exclusive proponent of the municipal budget – the mayor. It also determines who has exclusive authority to accept it then – the municipal council. It is therefore very irresponsible, in our view, that the partial interests of individuals and personal offenses prevail over the functioning of the congregation and the interests of citizens and citizens. This separation, which is reflected in the Kostanjevica case, sheds a bad light on the functioning of local self-government, so this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. In the proposal for a decision, we give the mayor and, above all, to the councillors 30 days of time to be sober, according to their own words. In the SDS Group, we will look very closely at what will happen in Costajevic. However, if we can make few predictions, given that the mayor has tried many times to reach the congregation council budget, but the councillors apparently did not understand what their task is, that those who accept it to be able to do the first or second reading, as is the case in all other normal municipalities, so that they can vote amendments and redistribute all those financial resources that are not part of the mandatory funding of the municipalities, we have a very bad feeling that within one month the saints will unite or a majority will be found to support the mayor. Therefore, in our opinion, it is irresponsible to say today that there is a dispute, that local self-government is disregarded by the municipal councilors, by most municipal councilors who do not know what their duties are, who do not even know the rules of procedure of the municipal council, and probably even the Statute of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk. This is even more problematic because it is a matter of political blackmail in which the institutions have already said that the matter cannot be as different as it is; this is a matter of return to telecommunications. In short, we know whose responsibility it is, and we expect to watch for 30 days what will happen in Kostanijevica, and then we act effectively. We may also have before us the question of whether the dissolution of the municipal world and the new elections during one year before the regular local elections are the right course. What if the same people come to the congregation world again? Once again, we will have the mayor who will propose the budget and most of the municipal councillors who will say that the mayor is not doing well and will again have problems with indiscretion. In our opinion, while we know that this is not in accordance with the law, it may be necessary to consider whether the decision of the Government or the amendment of the law as an extreme measure is to be determined as a hard stick for those who do not know their tasks in the municipal administration, namely, the duties of municipal councillors to give the mayor the authority to carry out all that is absolutely necessary for certain matters. For, as it was said, there are calls, there are investments, and all those who are at home near Kostanjevice in Krk have been looking at every bad weather forecast for three years when we are looking at when and how it will flood the Municipality of Kostanjevica. That the municipal councillors are not able to accept the budget here shows that something with local self - government and democracy in this congregation is very wrong. Sometimes, when democracy fails, it is time for extreme action, but we know what extreme measures are, in our opinion, much greater powers for the mayor in so-called emergency situations, which rule in the Municipality of Kostanjevica. We will support the decision, and in 30 days we will probably meet again in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u108	Honourable Vice-Presidents, Members, Members and, of course, representatives of the Government! The Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka, which is now at the forefront of this point, has become the second municipality in the history of the independent country for which the Government has taken a decision to dissolve the municipal council. It is true, however, that in the case of the first congregation, the congregation of Velika Polana, there was no vote in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, we will have to decide whether this idyllic and beautiful place on the island will become the first with the previously recalled saints. In the Desus Group, we believe that the Law on Local Self-Government is clear in contrast with the law that was in force in 2001 at the time of the decision on the dissolution of the municipal council of Veliki Polana. The Municipal Council may be dissolved prematurely if it does not enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court imposing on it, by law and by law, consistent conduct. In the year for which the budget has not been adopted, it shall not be adopted for the following year in accordance with the law of the budget submitted and prepared, which may enter into force at the beginning of the year, or if, after at least three times a reference, it does not occur at all at the conclusion of the meeting. There was also a lot of talk on the mother's working body about the mayor's possible early release. Here too the Law on Local Self-Government is clear. The mayor may be dismissed prematurely if he does not enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court or the decisions of the court competent for administrative disputes imposed on him by the Constitution and the law in accordance with the law. In any case, we have come to the point where it is necessary to decide when a country can reach out to the local community or can reach out to the local community at all. We are aware that these are important decisions that will certainly lead to local unrest. The autonomy of local self-government must certainly be respected, but as I have already mentioned, we know Article 90 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which imposes certain obligations on us, Members and Members of Parliament. Here we come to a point where the autonomy of local self-government is not completely boundless and omnipotent. We have a law that very clearly defines when and how the state has to cut into the local community when things are no longer working. The very events in the municipality of Kostanjevica, the insurmountable differences between the municipal councilors and the mayor, the reasons for the failure to accept the municipal budget, the reasons why the municipality has been out of budget for two years, we have already heard a lot, so I will not repeat myself. However, I must point out that the Ministry of Public Administration has strongly supported the municipal administration, with the important role that the councilors of the mayor's draft budget of 2016 have repeatedly refused to send to public hearings and, as a result of their opposition, there has been a number of inconclusiveness or postponement of municipal meetings. That's why we're not talking today about the mayor's possible early release. All of these disputes led to the fact that the municipality of Kostanjevica has been forced to stop or start 32 projects with a total value of EUR 3 million, with a maximum of EUR 1.43 million from investment in roads and other infrastructure, due to the non-admission of the budget. The municipality cannot apply for State calls and calls for European funds because there is no budget and no plan for development programmes, it cannot start implementing new projects, even if for example it is a project to increase flood safety. There were many questions whether it would not be appropriate to wait for regular elections to be held in the autumn of the second year. Of course, the answer is clear at first sight, but the information on the cost of early elections is 16 000 euros, and it gives a clear answer. This is a negligible amount compared to the financial consequences caused by the non-acceptance of budgets. In 2016 alone, it was found that as many as EUR 3 million were lost for the municipality. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that there is no other way out in the case of the Municipality of Kostanjevica. We also believe that this case may even be an incentive for now separated municipal officials to communicate with each other and that, in the light of the interests of citizens and citizens, the found illegality will begin to be eliminated and finally adopt budgets for 2017 and 2018, as the decision we are taking today calls on the municipality to abolish illegality within 30 days of the adoption of this Decision and to adopt the 2017 and 2018 budget. In the Desus Group, we will support the decision. Voters and voters in the Municipality of Kostanjevica will probably think carefully about who to give their voice to in the local elections, whether they are premature or regular.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a decision, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. The decision on the proposal for a decision will be made on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end the 28th item of the agenda and also the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday 26 September at 9 a.m. Have a nice weekend.
