ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič by 16:00, Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik by 16:00, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, Dr. Jasna Murgel by 13:00, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, Dr. Franz Trček to 2.30 p.m., Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec to 3 p.m. and from 5.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m., Luka month from 17.30 p.m., Miha Kordiš from 17.30 p.m., Violeta Tomić from 17.30 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Han from 13. h.m. Branislav Rajić and Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 17:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the agenda for the meeting, I must inform you that the mag died. Dragan Černetič, Member of the first term of the National Assembly from 1992 to 1996 and Member of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please, let's honor him with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Praise him! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 30 June 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda of the meeting. I inform you that on 6 July 2017, I received a proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to extend the agenda by proposing a recommendation on the migration crisis and establishing border control with the Republic of Italy. Since the proposal for enlargement is contrary to Article 64(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since it is not a matter referred to in Article 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly on the enlargement of the 32nd meeting may not decide. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you received the call. Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u2	Your Honor! Certainly, the proposal to urgently address our proposal to extend the agenda and to establish adequate border protection with Italy in order to dramatically increase the flow of migrants to Italy in recent weeks is still necessary and up to date and meets all conditions under the rules of procedure. Not only is the Austrian Defence Minister's announcement to use the army and close Brenner, but there are two additional elements that have emerged after this period. The first is the French President of the State of Macron's announcement that they will soon introduce a drastic tightening of measures concerning migrants, in general with migration policy and at the same time consistent border protection. Before that, France had exercised certain control over Italy over the past few months, which was quite permissive. Now this is supposed to change substantially, and obviously it won't take long to do so. Given that the Swiss have been thin and military at their borders since winter onwards, it is clear that the entire border against Italy will be completely closed within a very short period of time. The only open border in this case remains the border of Slovenia against Italy. Given that the Austrians have kept their control at the border and today you can see why, because they watch in the long run, Slovenia will become a pocket in this case. The situation is therefore comparable to that of 2015, when we also warned on time, even me personally, and then we even listened to the autumn by the Government, "her how surprised we are". Such surprises will have far worse consequences this time. Why? That's when the migrants came across the border to Slovenia to move as fast as possible. Now they'll probably have nowhere to go. Austria has control, Hungary will not accept them, Croatia will also not, they will come from Italy. If we add to this the most recent events, this is the outrageous savagery of left-wing people along with migrants, which is almost unspeakable to us, according to Hamburg, where it reminds us of the totality of the war situation, where they broke out and burned cars, whole streets, shops and some of us even in the media of public information still call it protests, it is something that we should all be very concerned about. Because of this and because of our responsibility to our citizens and citizens we owe protection to and are obliged to provide security [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u3	Just to make it clear again what I'm relying on. We rely on the rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall allow the agenda to be extended in such cases in respect of matters referred to in Article 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure. These are matters relating to the adoption of law by emergency procedure; decisions of the National Assembly relating to the time limit laid down by the Constitution, law or EU law; matters relating to the termination or approval of the mandate of a Member, immunity of a Member and similar matters; or matters referred to in Article 92 of the Constitution of Slovenia, namely those relating to emergency situations. The judgment at this time is that it is none of this and it is possible, under certain conditions, to convene an extraordinary meeting if the case is supported by 23 signatures. This is procedurally possible and it is not possible to place the matter on a regular basis unless they meet the conditions I have just stated. This is a business fact with which we are bound and which we will respect in this House, as we have respected it so far. Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. When it comes to matters related to emergency situations, of course this is not only their introduction, but it is about preventing things in a timely and correct manner. What we are proposing is timely preparation, the use of those soft methods, such as setting up some panel fences, all that then signals on one side to migrants themselves, who are not some amorphous crowd, but are very well organized and informed among themselves, and also to Italian politicians, who lead very strange stories here. Ask yourself why the border town of Tržič, Monfalcone is called in Italy, once Slovenian, has become a city of radical Islam. I'm not sure if this is just a set of coincidences, but I think it's also a certain policy that has this as a consequence, that's its result. All these things are on our border, here and now. It's not something that's imaginary. The daily influx of migrants into Italy in individual days reaches what day even exceeds that when the Balkan route was opened, at the same time an influx across the Mediterranean. A Europe that is unfortunately uneven, which leads to a completely flawed policy here, cannot find a legal answer to this. Again, it is about protecting ourselves in time to prevent any emergency. If we do this today, if we take the right steps in time, we can do it in a soft way, simply, without major human security problems, without major problems for those who will do it in due time. If we miss this opportunity, it may be necessary to react much faster, much more decisively and using methods and means that I firmly hope that no one really wants them. That is why, Mr President, our proposal is justified because it is every possibility of preventing any emergency. Imagine that the current that flows now to Italy would only run into Slovenia for two days, only two days, and then there would be nowhere else to go. We would get real emergency situations that would be practically insurmountable, not only security, but also economic. Slovenia is small, is precious, is sensitive. But our job is to provide people with security and prosperity. That is why our proposal is justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u5	I've told you everything. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the agenda as you received by reference. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 16. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the agenda for the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I am receiving a written application of 37 questions from the Member States within the deadline of business. Only Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavec, excused the absence for today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u6	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, ministers and ministers, dear Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! In spring 2014, Nova Slovenije, in cooperation with the then Slovenian People's Party, introduced two laws into the parliamentary procedure, which established the current flat-rate tax regime as we know it today. It was a matter of amending the Income Act and amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. It was a very interesting and special time, it was about a year after the fall of the other Janša government, it was at the time of the collapse of the government of Alenka Bratušek, and then opposition and coalition trenches were not as strong as they may be today, so these two laws were also adopted on 20 June 2014. A very simple and transparent method of flat-rate taxation has been introduced. The State has recognised that 80 % of their revenues represent actual costs and that these costs do not have to be shown, not recorded, and the remainder, and 20 % of their revenues were taxed at a 20% tax rate. It has certainly been a case of evident de-de-barcation and a clear simplification of the accounting procedures. The current system is also in some ways clear and simple, since it is very transparent to assume that the country takes 4% of your income, 4% of what you produce, from your cake is taken by the country. It goes, according to my assessment and according to the assessment of many others for fair taxation and the level of this taxation, virtually no one has bothered. Everyone thought this was a fair rate of taxation. Finally, this proposal for flat-rate taxation, which we have brought into the country together with the People's Party, has also been very well accepted among people and also among entrepreneurs. Finally, this proves that as many as 13,000 citizens have been added to this flat-rate taxation system. President of the Government, I ask you: Why does your government intend to change something that finally works in this country, but if we have many things in the country that don't work, your government doesn't?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u7	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Member Tonin! If I took that last part of your comment away, I'd answer the question. The purpose of the 2013 regulation, according to my 2013 data, was administrative simplification, as you said, identification and compliance with tax obligations. However, an analysis of the current situation has shown that the existing system has often been misused in an inappropriate way to reduce tax and social security contributions. There were therefore inappropriate means of exploitation or even abuse, and there was additional pressure on labour market extermination, which certainly was not the intention of the system when it was established. All these perceptions have an impact on the distortion of the competitive position between companies on the market, on the social security of individuals and on public financial flows. According to the Ministry of Finance, this calls for a response and appropriate action. The Ministry of Finance is therefore preparing with the power of the Government to amend or resolve this matter. Let me immediately say that we will present proposals for amendments to this tax law to the public this month. Therefore, all stakeholders will have the opportunity to adequately identify themselves to these solutions. However, I would like to make it clear that, according to the Ministry of Finance, this new approach that we are proposing, which will go into public debate, would make around 77% of the commitments less burdensome than they are now. If I tell you what changes or solutions are. This is a solution that does not mean that the system would be more complicated, as we call it human, because it is true, in 2013 some simplification was achieved, but rather that the economic power of the debtor and the fairness of the system are taken into account to a greater extent, and that they are limited and prevented from being abused. The new solutions are intended to create as much as possible a level playing field for entry into the system of standardised expenditure, irrespective of the differences between individual debtors, such as the individual's personal income position. This would ensure greater fairness of taxation mainly for small business entities whose income from activities is the only source of income. This will be ensured in a way that the debtors will be included in the income scale, while also allowing them the possibility of applying general relief and relief for dependent family members. Many economic operators who will also participate in this debate, including many economic operators, and in principle the Economic Chamber, are in favour of such changes at this moment. Of course, there will have to be a full debate on this, so that, of course, the issue will be acceptable at the legislative level. Let me reiterate that the amendment proposal will be put into this public debate this month. I believe that, during this debate, it will crystallize whether, in this way proposed, we want to achieve a more fair, transparent taxation with these beneficial effects for more than 70% of the taxpayers and with the possibility of general relief and relief for dependent family members, as I have mentioned. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u9	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u10	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Your answer is to understand that you will change things and complicate things because abuse is supposed to occur. One thing. And secondly, because you say that people should pay less after the new ones. What if we go in order? First of all, it's about abuse. I'm sure there are abuses in every system. Most likely, there has been some abuse in this system. But every democratic state punishes those who abuse the system, but do not penalise collectively all those in this system. With this proposal that you go to change the whole system because of some rotten apples, you will actually do it by punishing 30,000 citizens who use this system fairly and normally. You already have the appropriate mechanisms to use inspection against these offenders, and you also have the appropriate legal basis. As far as 70% of people will pay less under the new system. Prime Minister, if you've heard me, it seems to me that the 4% tax on your income is fair. And at least this tax rate has not been exposed, no one has challenged this tax rate that it is too high, that it is excessively taxed. It seemed fair to everyone that, due to clarity and transparency, everyone was willing to pay 4%. See, if you really want to lower the wage burden, then you should start paying taxes first. I have a specific calculation here. If the company gives a thousand 500 euros to a worker in Slovenia, the worker gets out 885 euros and in Austria a thousand 200 euros. 315 euros is the difference. These are the subjects we should be discussing. Do you still think it's worth changing the flat-rate taxation system?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u11	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Let me once again make it very clear that the substance of the proposed changes is to maintain the administrative simplicity of the system, to take more account of the economic power of the debtor and thus the fairness of the system, and to limit and prevent perceived abuses, as you yourself said. If a public debate involving all stakeholders, all economic chambers, all other stakeholders, including representatives of all types of companies and all honourable Members, can participate and remain if this debate, which will be transparent and democratic, shows that such changes do not benefit from sufficient support, then they will not be achieved. I believe, however, that the Ministry has valid reasons for these changes, and there are reasons for them to take a step towards some part of the economy that is very important for Slovenia. And since the system can be more fair in the new way, I think that's the answer to everything. As it is said, let the public debate show whether the economy and the wider social community will support this change. As a matter of fact, I've already said the rest. To a large extent, the debtors would be burdened with a re-equitable approach in terms of equal conditions for entry into the system of standardised expenditure, irrespective of the differences between individual debtors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u13	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u14	President of the government! These proposals of the law and their public treatment will fall at a rather unfortunate time, during the summer, during vacations, when many may not be as careful as they would be otherwise. That is why I think that my proposal is in place for Parliament to hold a debate on this answer because, last but not least, 30,000 Slovenian citizens will be affected by this change. I'm saying that you're going to complicate a simple and well-functioning system. The solutions proposed by your government will be liberalised so that the taxpayer does not fully know how much tax he has to pay. Today, these matters are increasingly clear. Four percent of what you deserve is paid to the state. It doesn't make sense to me that you're changing these things, but if they have proved to be extremely good in practice. One more thing. This proposal of yours will also greatly affect the so-called afternoon espionage. This flat-rate taxation system will no longer pay off the afternoon esperies. If I recall correctly your coalition commitment or your coalition agreement, the debirocratization and simplification of procedures was one of the key things you wrote in this agreement. It is hard to believe, or it is hard to understand, why when specific reasons come, specific laws, but things get complicated and complicated. One more thing, Prime Minister. We are now living in a time of conjuncture, which is probably what we both agree on, and all responsible governments are using the times of the conjuncture to easily reform and adapt social systems for a time after the konjunctura, when perhaps a little more difficult times. Your government, too, has personally promised that immediately after this tax restructuring, there will be a new tax reform that will really relieve people. I would like to receive such a tax reform, after which people will pay less and no more taxes. If anything, then the time for conjuncture is such a good time. I would like this Parliament to discuss such matters in order, however, to adopt a logic, so that the lower taxes can make the budget more charged, because people will less avoid paying taxes, less questions with or without bills. And not the last time there's money left in people's wallets, they'll be able to spend more. That means good for the whole country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u15	Mag. Matthew Tonin, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017 in the framework of the votes. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much and thank you very much! Today is an important day for our high school students, so in the beginning, I will allow myself to congratulate all the graduates who have graduated. To all those who will have to do it again in the fall, well, head up, a little more for books and autumn, you will certainly win. The results of this year’s graduation also show that we can be satisfied with the knowledge of our children. This means that our country has a good education system at both primary, primary and secondary levels. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Education or education is one of the most important subsystems of the country, and it deserves special attention, of course. Our education system, especially the primary school system, is good. The knowledge of children is very good, and not only because I think so, but it is also confirmed by international comparisons. Primary education is compulsory for each child and must be available to every child, regardless of their initial position. And that's how it's supposed to stay. Under your government, the education system is under great test. Not only did you trade ministers for jokes, but now you want to equalize the financing of public and private education. Do you really think that's appropriate? Do you think this solution of yours will provide quality education for all children in our country? You brought into the National Assembly a law that would equalize this funding. In addition, we also have a proposal on the table to amend the Constitution to ensure a clear distinction between public and private education. Please answer our question: What is your attitude toward this change, or what is your attitude toward this issue? Four parties have submitted an initiative to amend the Constitution. On the proposal of the Social Democrats, Desus, the United Left and the Alliance. Unfortunately, Mira Cerar's parties and my great surprise were not there at the time. Today I'm getting more and more clear why. Your wish is to fully equalize public and private education, which is my view and our assessment of a major mistake. The task of the State is to provide every child with the same quality public education. Mr. Cerar, I ask: Do you support the amendment of the Constitution on the table?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u17	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u18	Dear Member Alenka Bratusek! If I go in line, first of all to draw attention to the constitutional decision, to the decision of the Constitutional Court which decided that the first paragraph of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is inconsistent with the Constitution. This Article provides that the State shall finance public programmes in private primary schools only at 85%. And, of course, the constitutional decision must be respected. The rule of law, the rule of law must be respected, it is said, the first task in this case for the government and it is for me to respect that. At the same time, I would like to point out that, when we have proposed a new bill, something more than that, we are in no way equalising, we are not equalising public and private education, but we are regulating the financing of both of them in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. In addition to implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, this amendment also protects the public education significantly. In view of the fact that respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court is the basis for the functioning of a democratic and legal state, as President of the Government and also as President of the party I am leading, I will always strive – and this is also what the Modern Centre Party, SMC, is working for a quality public education. That is why this novel is important for the protection of public education. The Novela first includes an amendment to Article 86 in such a way that the financing of the compulsory part of the primary private school programme, which has gained public validity, is equivalent to the financing of the same public school programme. According to the new private school, 100 per cent of the programme will be funded from public funds and 85% will be maintained for the extended part of the programme. However, this amendment contains other changes governing the relationship between public and private education and introduces important new guardians in the establishment of new private schools and prevents the inflation of new private schools of different quality and direction. Thus, we are implementing a constitutional decision by means of this law, while at the same time protecting public education, which is also an absolute value for our party as part of the government coalition. All these changes express the country's clear commitment and concern for quality public education, and private education remains an important complement to and enriching the school space. With regard to constitutional change, let me say that the constitutional debate is not dead but is under way. Given the need for a two-thirds majority, the process takes place more professionally and the Modern Centre Party, which I am leading, is very actively involved in this process with proposals and discussions at each stage. I believe that the Constitutional Commission will eventually reach some appropriate agreement on the appropriate amendment of Article 57 of the Constitution of Slovenia. This must take place on professional grounds and a two-thirds majority must be ensured. The Government of the Constitutional Amendment in this direction, in order to further regulate and protect our public education, certainly supports. I support them myself, supported by the Modern Centre Party, SMC. Therefore, I think that I have made it clear enough that both the Government and the Modern Centre are for quality public education, it is for the implementation of a constitutional decision, because this is essential for a democratic rule and will continue to participate in the process of amending the Constitution in order to achieve the best possible solution. At the same time, we must adopt this amendment to comply with the constitutional order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u19	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u20	Yes, Mr President, there is no debate on the amendment of the Constitution. 14. 1. 2016 The expert commission delivered its opinion, a year and a half after that, the National Assembly or the Constitutional Commission, which is chaired by a member of your party, our President of the National Assembly, has done nothing. Those are the facts. The amendment of the Constitution in the manner proposed can also ensure or ensure respect for a constitutional decision. I believe that as a constitutional lawyer, you are crystal clear. By proposing a law that is on the table, you are not protecting public education in any way, but you are protecting and giving extra money to private education. That's even more surprising to me because in health you don't find one nice word for concessionaires or for those ugly private people, as you tell them on this side of you. In health care, not in private, in education, give to private people. So you really don't care much about public education. Given that we have had the opinion of the expert committee on the table for a year and a half, Mr Cerar, I would like to hear from you the position of you and your party on this change. Because this change would actually ensure a separation between public and private. The task of the State would be to finance private schools only where the public network is not operational. That's the expert committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u21	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I wouldn't say it again, but since you're telling the truth, I have to repeat some things so that the citizens don't think you're right. Firstly, as far as the allocation of funds is concerned to private schools, this is only within the framework of the law, as required by the Constitutional Court's decision. Do you want me not to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court or something? Is that what you want? Okay, then we'll understand that you are against the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But as long as I lead it, the government will do everything in its power to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. At the same time, we are working together, including the Modern Centre Party and also coalition parties, I know this, in a constitutional debate at the professional level. The SMC has also drawn up a specific text that it examines with other coalition partners in this process, but this does not take place once at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission. As you know, it doesn't make sense for you to go to a meeting until you've prepared things well. This is a constitutional change that requires some thoughtful, prudent approach and good solutions. We are also on a constitutional level for a good solution. Now I'm going to make it very clear. It's not true that a modern center party doesn't care, as you say, about public education. On the contrary. We don't care about public education. We are working hard for quality public education and you have just praised it. It works well for three years under our mandate, and I believe it will work in the future. How much we care about public education and do not accept such criticisms and such untruths, because we prove this both at the legal level, after the constitutional process and in daily operations, when we work through the competent minister and her people and everyone else in the government to ensure this. I repeat: we care very much about public education, we want quality public education, and we will do everything we can to protect it from the adverse effects. And if it is necessary to reach such a consensus, I myself will be satisfied that we can make matters even better at constitutional level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u23	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u24	Yeah, some are words, some are acts. At this point, Mr President, you say you're more into private education than you are about public education. I told you, yes, the constitutional decision must be respected, but the Constitution can also be amended. That's just the way it is. I believe you don't believe yourself that the school system works well because of Mira Cerar or because of the government of Mir Cerar, but much ahead of you. Yeah, I'm stretching, it's good, but the question is, how will it be in 5 or 10 years if your changes work? I am sorry that you have not clearly and clearly defined yourself until the amendment of the Constitution, which is on the table. If there are some conversations within your client, okay, nice and right, but I think that at this time, a year and a half in the opinion of the expert commission, it would be a good time for the Constitutional Commission, which has been repeatedly postponed, to finish its work and all the political parties in this national assembly to put the cards on the table. And I'm sure you don't want to reveal these cards because a government that says it's a left-wing party that says it's a left-centred, funding law like you presented, would never bring it into the National Assembly, so it's a drag. By the end of the term of office, there is not much time left and it is precisely because of this delay that we will be able to miss the opportunity to finally settle this matter in the Constitution. Above all, I'll say, we support public education, yes, but on the other hand, do much more with this change for private education. Yeah, people create their own opinions, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u25	I didn't hear the request? Okay. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no. I will first find that I have not heard the request, but I have heard the debate with the President of the Government and my disagreement with him. I didn't put my word on it. I have given the floor to explain why a debate is needed. Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u26	I suggest, Mr President, that you read your tape, where you said you would give me your word for a procedural proposal. And if we're like in kindergarten to repeat each other, so can you, and now you'll decide for yourself whether this was my procedural proposal or not. But I think we should act like we're in the National Assembly and not like a kindergarten. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u27	Nobody behaves like they do in kindergarten. I gave you my word to explain your proposal. You disputed with the Prime Minister and forgot to say you're asking us to discuss it. It's not my fault. A case like this has already happened. It's already happened. Because you didn't do it, I'm not going to put it to the vote. I can't get over this! [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. The distinguished President of the Government, as you defend public education, is also in your words or in your coalition contract to defend public health. You keep saying that every step of the way, but I have to say it, but in fact things are a little different in reality. All those involved in public health or in health care are mainly doctors, nurses, that is, all who have direct contact with public health, including former ministers, if you like, say that our public health before collapse or that in some parts it has already collapsed. Given that you are Prime Minister and that you have a minister in the government, who also constantly stresses how her changes mean improving public health, the question on the ground is what has been done in these three years of your mandate to improve public health, as you said, in order to ensure better care for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that you are aware that there are certain anomalies and that your government has a vision of Slovenian health in the future. That's what you said in October 2016 at the first interview of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. You also said that you are in contact with people working in health care, that you have visited many health homes and hospitals to know the state of Slovenian health. We all agree, in fact, that we have capable health workers who only want to work and have enough affair and constant discontent at work. You say we have affairs, we have corruption and a long waiting line, so you need public support to improve Slovenian health care or to carry out so-called health reforms. Dear Prime Minister, I'm interested in: Are you really aware that we have corruption in health care, that we have long waiting periods – you had public support, but after three years when Slovenian health can be said to breathe on gills, I think that support is gone or is definitely gone now? I want to know: What has been done in these three years to improve Slovenian health care, to improve the state of waiting times, to reduce health corruption, to improve the working conditions of all those working in public health? What was done at the end of the day so that fewer doctors would go abroad? What was done in the field of the international report on child heart surgery? Although we are always close to the end of our term of office, I wonder: What is your vision by the end of our term of office in the field of public health? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u29	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We all know, honourable Member Godec, that your party, the SDS Party, has filed an intervention against the Minister of Health. So I believe that her response to interpolation and the debate on this opportunity will also be an opportunity to address not only health problems, which are confidently large, but also government achievements and pressures that prevent faster progress in the recovery and implementation of more modern approaches, such as those that will lead our health care. Your questions are a lot of corruption, waiting times you've asked me a lot of questions. [[…]] I can't answer all of that in a few minutes. Let me say that, as Prime Minister, together with the entire government and coalition, I am still aware that there are many problems and challenges in health. And we address all these problems and challenges. It is true that changes do not go as quickly as we want. This is where the criticism is justified. I'd like it much faster myself. However, I must say that I am surprised at how much opposition there is to every attempt to make a difference, to make something better, to the process of managing health institutions and health care, to the process of organising public calls, to the process of reducing corruption and so on. Everywhere in 20 years and more, the problems that we now solve in most of us, our government, including the Minister of Health, have accumulated. Over the years, every government has put down a number of problems, there have been no relevant systemic changes, there has been no improvement in practice, there have been negative practices, there has been proven corruption and so on. Nothing's moved. Our government has taken this seriously. This is not an excuse for not going any faster, but the emphasis is that we will not give up. We're not going to stop because I think we're going in the right direction. We are going in the direction of quality public health, while respecting private health as an important complementary public health, but in the direction of quality public health there are reforms. What did we do? I can't say everything here right now. But after a few years of stagnation, we have opened, as you know, 10 emergency centres; with public procurement we have reduced and reduced the costs and prices of medicines and medical devices, these prices are lower today; we have prepared health legislation, which is now mostly here before you Members, such as the Law on Patient Rights, the Law on Health Activity and so on. The Health and Insurance Act is also being prepared, as you know. Several laws have already been passed in the National Assembly. We have introduced various measures in the area of waiting periods. It is only this year that we are earmarking an additional 41 million euros to reduce waiting periods. A number of projects are under way, a special government project to shorten waiting periods and increase the quality of healthcare treatment, a one-time supplementary programme to shorten waiting periods, eTravel which was introduced in April this year, which means additional value here, the recast of the Law on Patient Rights, which is right in front of you, you decide on it that very day and you will decide definitively at the meeting of the National Assembly, to help reduce waiting types. If this is adopted in September, we will have important extensions made. According to the Minister's assessment, positive effects on the functioning of health institutions will be achieved through the status of transformation, reorganisation and better coordination of the implementation of health activities. I could still tell you what was adopted. But let me be very clear, doctors, many doctors, many nurses, technicians and other health workers are working hard. We're all grateful for that. But we are also trying to simply help put the health management system on the right footing, so that it continues with all the anti-corruption processes, and here we have zero tolerance for corruption. Wherever it occurs, you know that procedures are already under way, including complaints, a number of procedures are under way to make this known and that the situation is improving. As you know, in the field of, for example, public procurement, common procurement for medicines is for about 900 sets. The procedure for such joint procurement has already been completed. The framework agreement will be signed and so on. When it comes to medical devices, some common calls are made. These are the rationalizations in health care we need. But the key focus right now is to reduce waiting lines and system changes. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u31	Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u32	Dear Prime Minister, I don't know who wrote you this pamphlet. Everything you've just said is, in fact, tragic. Dear Prime Minister, if I start here, when you say so, joint public procurement has been ongoing since 2015. One common public order has been concluded and nothing has been saved yet because we cannot know how much, or whether, the prices of medicines, diapers, needles, and the like, the minister is constantly explaining, are even comparable or will be lower. This is one thing, Mr. President of the Government. Next thing. What did we hear last time on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission? Hospitals are insolvent and insolvent. This was said by the Secretary of the Ministry of Health that suppliers cancel the supply of material to hospitals because they are in such losses that they simply cannot pay the suppliers. This is due not only to the 20-year misdemeanour of previous ministers, but also to the failure and failure of the current minister and your government, who has promised to resolve matters in this mandate. Next thing. You talk about pressure all the time. Please make it clear and clearly what pressures are involved. If you mean the opposition's pressure on the proposed or unproposed legislation that has now been in the National Assembly, then you have nothing to fear because we cannot vote on the coalition with our votes. So please, if you once say: What's your pressure? Even if you are fighting corruption in health care: Who are the ones who are preventing you? I want to know: What are the charges, in what area, since you mentioned that there have been some complaints? The waiting times are worrying. The additional money was, but if we look at NIJZ statistics, the index of increasing waiting periods from last year to this year is 110 and 121, if we first look at a set of 13 specialist ambulances. On e-procurement, Mr President of the Government, and the coalition has something to say to you that things do not work as they should. If in a hurry [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I will not repeat myself exactly, but you must understand that in three minutes I cannot answer all these questions, and I also think that this is the debate in which the Minister of Health must be involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u35	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u36	I think she will answer all your questions, your claims, your assessments convincingly, as I expect from her. I'd like to say something. Our country was in a terrible crisis years ago. This crisis has also caused a health crisis and a number of other systems. Simply because of austerity and other measures, there was not enough money available for health care. There wasn't enough cartridges and there wasn't enough to worry about. In addition, the Minister for Minister, attention to health was weak, and things went smoothly, of course, nourished and similar. And now we can't fix this situation right now. What's the point? That when the country is no longer in the crisis, when we continue to take it on a more stable path, we allow the conditions at all to provide health care, as well as all other subsystems with a normal life. And now we're starting it. In this mandate, we have achieved the stabilisation of the society system as a whole. There are now some changes in health and other areas that are extremely difficult. There are many resistances to these movements. Many have been privileged in the system, many have lived in this system on a foreign account. This is about some kind of fight. But it is also a two-way conflict: whether we go forward with a change for the better, with a new public health regime, if I limit myself to him, who will be better, better quality, more accessible to patients, easier for doctors, or constantly arguing and returning to some disputes. I am for this first thing, I am in favour of modernising health care, and I believe that if we adopt these laws that Members have before you, which have been preparing for more than two years, in cooperation with all stakeholders, then we have extensions for a significantly better health situation. With these funds that we are now earmarking to reduce waiting lines, and also with other operational measures, I believe that we will be able to start improving the situation in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u37	Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u38	In view of the fact that the President of the Government has just said that in three minutes he cannot explain everything that has been done in the field of health, I propose that a general debate be held in the National Assembly, where he himself, as President of the Government and Minister, may be held in that hour, or as long as the Government takes his usual and does not normally speak, he can explain more precisely which laws or measures have been carried out by the Government. The President of the Government, and I can tell you very quickly now that not a lot of legislation has been adopted in the National Assembly and we could be done in thirty seconds. The Law of Pharmacy and the Tobacco Act were adopted. And that's all. There were no other laws in the National Assembly. However, you promised the citizens at the beginning of your term of office that you would begin immediately with the implementation of a health reform that will show some progress already in your mandate. Today it is known, however, that it is more than clear that our health system, as you say, would like to move forward, to move forward possible, but at some stage it returns to the socialist system without any envisaged competition, improvement, quality for citizens. You say the ones you have prepared will be satisfied with the laws you have prepared. If we were to monitor the Health Committee, for example, we would see that, last Friday, at the last meeting of the Health Committee, young doctors with tears in their eyes were discussing that the Medical Services Act, which concerns them most, was adopted by emergency procedures, as if we were in a war state, which they said meant even worse for young doctors and the greater possibility of young doctors going abroad, then today we would not be so sure about how the work of this minister and this government was good for Slovenian health or for the future of Slovenian health and for Slovenian patients. I hope that this proposal for a public debate in the National Assembly on the Slovenian health system, where the President of the Government and the Minister will be able to tell you exactly what are the improvements that we obviously do not see in the National Assembly or are not felt by citizens, also adopted in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u39	Mrs Jelka Godec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Dragan Matić, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Slovenia has become a successful tourist destination in recent years. This is discussed by statistical indicators as well as by resounding publications in recognised tourism media. According to the World Tourism Organisation, cultural tourism is the fastest growing segment within the tourism industry. This segment of cultural tourism is expected to become dominant within the tourism sector by 2020. Due to the rich and diverse natural and cultural heritage and, in particular, to the high level of security in our country, we have great opportunities for this. In a similar direction, tourism is also developing everywhere in Europe, but it is noted that the most developed European countries are investing significantly more in the promotion and pre-preparation of cultural products, that is to say major exhibitions, concerts, festivals and similar attractions, while also in the systematic reconstruction and presentation of cultural heritage. Finally, the European Commission declared the European Year of Cultural Heritage the following year and will also announce the Ministry of Economy in 2018 and 2019 as years of cultural tourism. This is certainly very positive, and this is to be welcomed, but at the same time we would expect appropriate measures and final starting points to be placed in the strategy for the sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism in the years 2017-2021, which is just beginning. In the draft chapters of the tourism strategy number 3 and 4, cultural tourism and cultural heritage are unfortunately not present. The fact that we are also aware of the importance of cultural tourism in the National Assembly is evident from the fact that a joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on the Economy was convened a few weeks ago. We have adopted conclusions by which we propose to the Government to establish an interdepartmental working group on cultural tourism at the level of the country and municipalities. This should report to the two committees each year on the situation in this area, and at the same time we have proposed to the Government that the chapter Cultural Tourism should be included in the emerging strategy for the sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism. Last cultural tourism as the most promising industry within tourism also deserves. Mr President, I want to know: What is the Government's position on this issue that I'm talking about? What do you think are the main objectives of the development of tourism in Slovenia over the next two years?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u41	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much, honourable Member Matić. Tourism is undoubtedly an extremely important economic sector for Slovenia. We are pleased to note that growth and success have been recorded in recent years. As early as 2016, positive growth trends continue in 2017, as we recorded a significant 11% increase in tourist arrivals in the five months of this year compared to last year. The objectives of Slovenian tourism are also ambitious, and we recognize the importance and development of sustainable tourism, and we see culture as an important component. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is in the final stage of the preparation of the new tourism strategy, that is, the strategy mentioned by you is a strategy for the sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism for the period 2017-2021. This strategy has also included cultural tourism, mainly thanks to the initiative of both committees. I think this is some kind of added value that came out of this debate. This strategy, which is expected to be adopted in September 2017, will bring this new value, a new quality in the field of culture, so that we will be even more aware, more targeted, more clearly promoting cultural tourism as a whole. Let me say that the area of cultural tourism or culture is associated with tourism products in general with a very high income potential. It is not only about income potential, but we also see additional activities and contributions in the socio-economic and cultural fields. Cultural tourism has many potentials, many values that actually need to be linked to the economy and to tourism planning as a whole. Cultural tourism is defined in the new strategy that I mentioned as one of the key products in three macro-regions: Alpine Slovenia, Mediterranean Slovenia and Thermal-Panonic Slovenia is defined as a support product. In the macroregion of Ljubljana with central Slovenia, it is defined as a leading product. For 2018 and 2019, culture is defined as a bearing theme for the promotion of Slovenian tourism. We have also examined your proposal to establish an inter-ministerial working group on cultural tourism in the Government. We welcome this proposal and therefore, following the adoption of the new strategy, an interdepartmental working group will be set up to monitor the implementation of the entire strategy, i.e. cultural tourism activities. I am pleased to discuss this issue this year, when we are also in the year, which is also dedicated to the memory of our world-renowned architect Jožet Plečnik, which is also a signal that culture at all levels must gain meaning in our society, Slovenia as a country that is expanding into the world, and especially in the field of the economy. So, if I can sum it up. Yes, culture contributes significantly to economic development, so it needs to be integrated into this development even more consciously, more in the appropriate ways and in the cooperation that you have mentioned and now envisaged in the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u43	Dr. Dragan Matić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Government intends to systematically promote the area of cultural tourism. This is, of course, inseparably linked to the protection of cultural heritage and the promotion of cultural production. However, as you can see, there will be no real progress in this area unless there is a coherent approach between the departments and cooperation between the Government and the municipalities. How important this is, we recently had the opportunity to see when we were together with colleagues from the SMC Group in the field, namely, we visited Stanjel, where much work is being done on the development of cultural tourism, and the Škocjan caves, which were listed as the first in Slovenia on the list of Unesco's heritage. These are two destinations where in the area of cultural tourism in the past there have been quite a few good stories, and where fresh ideas are also emerging, so-called products with market potential, and in both cases those responsible in public institutions that take care of the development of tourism and run these projects face similar problems. In particular, it is a matter of placing the development of cultural tourism in the state and indirectly also in the budgets of local communities, or the absence of coordinated measures, including, in particular, calls at various ministries, which would adequately support cultural tourism projects. I certainly believe that, after what I have heard, such concrete measures in the area of promoting cultural tourism will also be taken by the Government. In the SMC, we will continue to monitor and encourage government action in this area, and I believe, Mr President, that you too will personally support this important and perspective area, which brings together the economy and culture, as well as other resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u45	Was that a question? No, it wasn't a question. Then I must remind you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure and then there is no need for the President of the Government to respond further, so this is important. Please respect the rules of procedure as everyone else does. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 31st meeting of the National Assembly. First of all, the Minister of the Interior will be mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar answered Dr. Vinko Gorenak's question about police procedures related to the laundering of billions of dollars in 2009, 2010 and later.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for saying so! Dear Members! As announced, at the previous meeting, Member Gorenak asked me a question about the developments in the New Ljubljana Bank, in particular regarding the awareness of the Interior Minister, her successor, the awareness of the Director General of the Police, his successor, the awareness of the prosecution, the targeted police in this case, and the Members are interested in what the police have done in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u47	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u48	As far as the knowledge of the then interior minister is concerned, I can say here what is perfectly logical that this information is unknown to us. We also do not know whether she was familiar with her successor, Mr Zalar. As for the knowledge of the Director-General of the Janko Gorška Police, I can say here that on 18 January 2011 Mr Goršek was informed in writing about the financial transactions of a foreign national through the NLB account of two different documents. She introduced him to Sova and then resigned to further resolution of the professional service and, following prior notification by the Anti-Money Laundering Office, were addressed to the Criminal Police Authority on 14 October 2010 and 19 November 2010. With regard to the question whether Mr Goršek took note of his successor, Mr Veneiger, I can say that there was first a handover between Mr Gorško and Mr Turk, who became the governing director-general, who then handed over the work to Mr Veneiger, and here none of the pre-receivable records actually covered the matter. However, both minutes state that the Directorate of Criminal Police will present to the Director General of the Police a special overview of operational matters and the use of covert investigation measures. It should also be said that, as far as the police work is concerned, during the initial phase of the verification of the notification to the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the police do not exercise procedural powers in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act until they confirm the evidentiary standard of grounds for suspecting that an offence has been committed that is being prosecuted under official duty. If I move a little bit more into the current part of the story. Thus, until 14 June this year, the prosecution did not direct the work of the police with regard to the collection of notices relating to the disputed misdemeanours of a foreign national through the NLB account. On 14 June, the police received a request from the Special Prosecutor's Office for information. The police will examine the specific circumstances, collect the notifications and then notify the competent State Prosecutor's Office of these findings. If we end up cutting through the work of the Police in the matter, because this is of interest to the honourable Member. The Office submitted a request for information to the police on 14 October 2010, after which the police received two further notifications of suspicious transactions in November and January of the following year, whose allegations were thoroughly verified. But when the police wanted to find out there were grounds for suspicion, that wasn't confirmed. It was not possible to establish from the content of the notices those reasons, since only the amount of the financial transactions was shown from those notifications. The police have also received two different documents from Sovo with a notification of the financial transactions of a foreign national. The police immediately checked certain natural persons and companies within the scope of the options they had, but did not confirm the suspicion of the offence by checking. By collecting notices and with extensive demand for various foreign authorities, the police did not confirm the suspicion stated in the Office's notice. Most of the responses from foreign security authorities, including Europol, also showed that the verification was negative. As mentioned above, on the basis of the request of the Special Prosecutor's Office, the police will further collect the notifications, also verify certain circumstances relating to the case in question and then notify the competent prosecutor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u49	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much. It must be said that I put this question to the Member State a month ago and that developments in this area are taking place very quickly. Minister, I thank you for the part where you talk about knowledge and information, because I think it's correct and accurate. But what I want to warn you about is that I don't have to answer below. But look, you're being pulled by the police. I have also asked a written question, which you have answered, on this subject. They shall indicate under number 1 that the Minister of Police shall be informed in accordance with Article 12 of the law. But this law has been in force since 2013. And I'm not asking after the 2013 period. That's one. Second. What I'm afraid of, further down, because I know you have, so the last time it was said on the board, an investigation into this subject was opened, one thing has to be said. Look, it's impossible for the police to check the case and not notify the D.A. Let's go to those two secretaries of state, one of them was in your office, the other one was in the administration, if I'm not mistaken when it came to a dihtungo and one pair of pate — or what? The police will write a notice to the D.A. The police have to report to the D.A. He has to. Either she lodges a complaint or sends a report that she has not found the suspicion of a criminal service. These are the only two possible alternatives: a criminal charge or a report to the prosecution. It wasn't done. Minister, you are also being misled in this work today. No, you can't land, you can't agree to this kind of flat-rate notice, if we investigate, investigate, and it's not a crime. The fundamental question is why the prosecution was not informed. If you can answer that. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u51	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Of course, I thank you for all your warnings. I believe they're purely well-intentioned. As has already been said in my first part of the response, when the police check the notification of the Anti-Money Laundering Office in the initial phase, of course it does not exercise those procedural powers it has under the Criminal Procedure Act, since the milestone is the evidentiary standard of grounds for suspecting that a criminal offence has been committed. On this date, when the police received the notification from the Office, they collected data on the basis of Article 54 of the Police Act. As for further actions on matters that are currently on the table, this is all that we are now discussing on the committee. Last time, I also informed you that a request has already been made for reporting through the Directorate of Police and other security tasks that have already requested documentation from the Police. The matter is in the stage of study and when the matter is mature, a specific opinion will be drawn up. However, I can also say that the police will, on the basis of a request from the President of the Commission of Inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system and to identify the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone, provide the Commission with an accurate description of the correspondence accepted and transmitted. The list will include input, output, own documents as well as data on all persons who have received entry letters and persons who have prepared and signed exit documents or data on all persons who have had any correspondence in this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u53	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u54	Yes, because I would like to remind the Minister of one more thing. In fact, I have to ask for a debate on this subject, and also that it will not be the same as Mrs Bratušek's. Minister, not 54. Article, don't let them fool you. No, no, and no! If they have to inform the prosecution of the slightest suspicion, the slightest suspicion. Look, Spar reports a theft or some shop reported a theft, but it's a small amount, it's got to go to the D.A.'s report that the incident didn't happen, because it's not a crime because it's not high enough, which is prescribed by law, and it's over. Do not agree to be told that they did not inform the prosecution because they did not exercise their authority. No, no, and no! For a billion U.S. dollars, the suspicion was transmitted to the police. And if the police have determined that this is not a crime, they are obliged to write a report to the prosecution after the 148th article. Please do not agree to this and be careful when you receive this report, which you have now requested from the police. I'm also looking forward to a list of those dates that have been kept informed. We have to get inside the police, I think we have to get to the person with the name and surname, but I'm not saying that one of my predecessors, because I don't know, neither are you, but we have to get to the name of the person who finished the case and said that then it won't work anymore, and the police stopped things. This is the most critical point because there is a key police act missing from this point. This is a report if they consider that it is not an offence to be brought before the prosecution. I expect you to pay particular attention to this matter and that the commission dealing with this will also be particularly alert to the President of the Commission to pay particular attention to this matter. Someone inside the police stopped the thing, and it stopped it illegally. Let us all pay close attention to this together, but I suggest that we do this in the form of a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u55	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017, in the framework of the votes. Now the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Dejan Židan [[…]] Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. First of all, I'd like to say hello to Madam Minister. Welcome back. I hope that health will now serve you well. My procedural proposal is addressed to you, Mr President. Look, for three months now, I have asked the Minister of the Interior an oral question concerning equality before the law and the use of flags. Every time since then, you have asked me if I want an oral answer, and I have specifically stressed that I want an oral answer, but today there is no such question. Why did I insist on wanting an oral answer? For a simple reason, because it is a matter of discretion, which is unacceptable when it comes to the use of coercion or even punishment, and, on the other hand, the question of equality before the law. Just as things are now in this love of Slovenia, this is unacceptable from a constitutional point of view, because if someone stamps a historical flag, and it messes with a neighbor, it calls the police, the police intervene. Then, in the middle of the city of Ljubljana, in the main square, a quasi-vertical sect, the cult of death, which worships the totalitarian symbol on a flag, died under this totalitarian symbol, was brutally killed, killed 100 million people. This is said, despite the fact that this is upsetting by a very large number of people who are reporting protests, the police are not mediating. Obviously, this is not about equality before marriage, and this is an unconstitutional situation. That's why I wanted an oral response. Given that this is not on the agenda today, I rightly expect, Mr President, that you will include this in the first next session, when there will be another opportunity for questions and answers from Members, and that there will then be an opportunity for the Minister to give me an oral answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u57	The fact that the matter is not classified is that it was not recognized as such. We'll check all the magnetograms that this is referring to. If there has been a mistake, I apologize in advance and we will act accordingly. But I do know that you were given a written answer, and that's what the secretary told me. In view of all of this, we will check and, accordingly, will also be clear at the next meeting whether this matter will be put up or not. Okay? Now, indeed, he will be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Dejan Židan answered Dr Dragan Matić's question about the strategic business plan of the company Slovenski state, forests d. o. o.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting. Mr. Ambassador Dr. Dragan Matić, you have asked me three questions. The first question is when will the Government address the company's strategic business plan 2017-2026. The government has decided that the company must send this strategic plan to us by 12. Seven. 2017. In doing so, I would like to point out that, while the company is operating on the business plan adopted this year, the company is operating on this business plan. I am also informed that a meeting of the Supervisory Board of this company is taking place today, so that the management will be able to do so. The second question is what the Government intends to do to ensure that the preparation points are taken into account. This is quite simple, it is also a criterion for the adoption of the business plan at the Assembly, represented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, the Government has all the powers as a congregation under the Company Act. And then the third question is why there were no public sales prices or sales names that she had made so far. Here's the answer. The company followed the rules of sale, while it is only one of the entities and the criteria so far also allow for the determination of prices by negotiation. The rules of the Slovenian State Forests by way of and criteria for the sale of forest ranges adopted by the Assembly provide that the company and the buyer are obliged as a business secret to protect all the information they exchange during the duration of the contractual relationship and have the character of business secrecy in accordance with Article 39 of the Company Act. However, since the Slovenian National Forests are seeking to ensure as much transparency and transparency as possible, at the end of June 2017 the Government proposed the adoption of new rules, which are such that new rules introduce a new way of selling for reasons of transparency, in order to fully sell in line with public tenders. In addition to the conclusion of short-term contracts, the conclusion of long-term contracts has also been established. There is also a new way of selling through public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u59	Dr. Dragan Matić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, the Government has already adopted its starting points in November 2016 as to what the strategic business plan of the Slovenian State Forests should be and then in January came some draft or proposal. We've been here for a month now. I'm interested in your opinion as the Minister of State: Why do these complications come about? Why doesn't the government's position come true? Why does a company that owns 100 percent of the state not follow what the owner wants to put into a strategic plan? I think this kind of stalling is something that's not right. In this regard, some decisive moves should have been made long ago, and we can see that they are being misinterpreted, overlayed, overlayed all the time. Now it's been transferred to July 12th. I wonder if this strategic plan will really be adopted on 12 July because it was last submitted a month ago. And the second question that I'm interested in is your position as District Minister: Is it appropriate that such contracts have been concluded so that we are practically unaware of who and at what cost the timber from the state forests has been sold? Is that something you think is acceptable as a district minister? If you don't think it's acceptable, I want to know: Do you intend to find those responsible who have thus concluded contracts or who have adopted those acts on the basis of which these contracts were then concluded? In my opinion, it is unacceptable for an identical state firm in Croatia to operate in a transparent manner, but we still do not know in Slovenia what kind of money the state timber went to. Please, if you can explain this position to me a little bit more.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u61	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thanks for the extra question. Your Honour, you have rightly found that the Government has accepted the starting points of 19. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You've correctly established that society has done its job. She sent it to Government 31. 1. their starting points. What needs to be said, however, is that there has been a variety of interpretations of forest-forest centres within the Government. Within the Government, this distinction is at the level of whether it is necessary to invest in public money and/or state-owned timber centres, since the company is a state-owned company, or whether it is necessary to establish conditions for such centres to be established. It is also true that a new leadership took place during this process. The previous leadership was temporary, a new leadership was established. To some extent, the Government also understood and agreed that the new leadership, which is set up, has the right to prepare its long-term view of the development of Slovenian state forests on its own. When we talk about Slovenian state forests, unlike the company you mentioned, we just have to say that it is a brand new company operating from the second half of last year. We all know how difficult the transition from the concession system has been and how much pressure there has been for the current system, which was weak for the country, to remain, but despite everything as a coalition, we have succeeded in changing this system. As regards the main indicator, this is effective because you can see how much money we get from the sold cup, it actually works even on the plans, and in any case it works significantly, significantly better than within the concession system. The fact is that the congregation adopted the rules of how it was sold, it was an act of the congregation, that is, the government. The fact is that at that time it was found that these rules needed to be amended in the interests of greater transparency, and management also sent new rules to the Government. I will, at least, do everything in my power to have these rules adopted before the parliamentary holidays of the National Assembly and thus the Government. These new rules no longer have direct negotiations, which are then subject to these business secrets in accordance with the Company Act, but the mode of sale is limited and at the same time significantly longer term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u63	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister of Environment and Space, will now answer Mr Zvonk Lah's question regarding the assessment of noise in the construction of the irrigation system. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, Mr Lah, thank you for your question. It is true that the question is whether we can only talk about legislation relating to the assessment of noise in the construction of the irrigation system, legislation relating to construction permits, especially since irrigation systems are built on agricultural land and are intended to irrigate agricultural land. It is true, however, that at the Ministry of Environment and Space we also encounter a number of sub-legislative acts. It is the Noise Regulation that we are meeting with, among other things, the sub-legislative act, which refers to the actions for which environmental consensus is to be obtained. There are a number of regulations regulating the environment. The environment is highly monitored under European Union legislation. We have one of the world's most advanced, I'm sure, environmental regulations. In some ways, I agree with you that a number of European regulations, which are already so difficult, have been processed in the past, or have been processed in the past by adding some other features, and our existing regulation is even more difficult than European. The group is certainly one of such regulations. We are working on the basis of infringements – and we also have infringements from these contents – to draw up a regulation that would bring the requirements of the European Directive much more into our legal order and thereby reduce certain requirements. National legislation can adopt stricter regulation, but less strict than European legislation cannot. In the Noise Regulation, we want to do this, we do it. But there are many contradictions that say that we should not change that. To maintain stricter criteria, there are many opinions. So the answer to your question is difficult for me to give in the sense that now the legislation that is in the procedure in Parliament solves this issue because it does not. I don't pretend and realize I can't answer that. It is true, however, that a specific study on noise emissions is not necessary in obtaining environmental consensus. Unfortunately, I don't know what particular case this is. The size of this irrigation system may be such that it is necessary, but it is not usually necessary to submit a proper study in these procedures. It is true, however, that the environmental impact report should provide an assessment of emissions, which can be carried out on the basis of measurements or model calculations. The preparers of these materials, which are being invested in the environmental consent process, know when and to what extent the requirements of the sub-legislative acts need to be met. But I can once again ensure that the legislation does not solve everything. Legislation is a procedural regulation that prescribes certain procedures, as I have already said, and environmental sub-laws are those that have often been determined by their own. If I focus now on noise, if the regulation remains with the current values, there will still be a lot of problems. However, if we succeed in adopting a regulation that will lower the criteria, the problems will be slightly less. I hope, however, that even in a number of other regulations, which are in some way included in the issuance of opinions or consensus on construction legislation, the biggest problems arise precisely in the sub-laws, not in the rules themselves. In processing existing legislation, it will be necessary to make efforts – a few ministries – in the services of ministries to make these regulations somewhat less difficult and to allow for investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u65	Mr. Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you very much, President. I have asked this question for a certain purpose because we are just adopting spatial and building legislation. With this example, I would like to show you how sub-laws, these are regulations and regulations, make the implementation of an individual law bitter. It is the construction of the irrigation system, for which an environmental report and a consensus were drawn up. Then a comment came from Ars that a model calculation of the impact of noise should be made. It's about 100 meters of pipe laying for the irrigation system. The problem is 100 meters of pipeline, 25 meters from housing. This is going to be built for two days, every day after four hours it's written inside. It's probably about digging up, making the placenta, laying the pipe, and then the noise at the dig and then the noise at the filling, fortification, and so on. Twice after 4 hours, 100 meters, 25 meters away from the apartment houses, it's two settlements. An offer of €3,000,200 without VAT, will come to €3,000,900. However, the following needs to be made: the development of a 3D acoustic model, taking into account the construction of buildings and roads, the definition of noise sources, the calculation of spatial environmental loads, the calculation of noise indicators, the definition of mitigation measures – all for 100 metres for 4 000 euros. I'm pretty sure he's pulling a 100-yard-lower pipeline price than it's gonna cost. Is that necessary? How many of these do we have?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u67	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u68	In my initial implementation, I have already said that I am aware that under-law regulations often impede the issuance of a building permit or the issuing of an environmental permit, including procedures for issuing a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. We are aware of this and it is our job to regulate such acts more appropriately. Speaking of noise now, at least the last three months have certainly heard a lot about the Noise Regulation. So the regulation has the right name, caused a lot of noise. Unfortunately, at least my current response has gone the other way. They did not talk to me or oppose the adoption of such a regulation by representatives of movements wishing to remove this obstacle, but rather vice versa. They wanted them to remain strict standards. This means that, despite all of this, we will try to bring it through all the procedures so far that it is not as strict as it is now. However, there are still some of these sub-laws at the Ministry of Environment, with which we present a significant obstacle. One of them is, and this is no longer a secret, the land regulation of the year I think 1994 or 1996, so far back, and is incompatible with the solutions that the rest of Europe knows. One major problem that remains open is the smell. It's also one of those components that's hard to detect with some machines. So either the human nose or the nose in animals has some abilities that are measured, we can say through some analysis, difficult to process. So that for at least some time the environment will also be monitored for technological shortcomings in the implementation of certain analyses and ensure that the rules adopted are not hindered by investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u69	Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u70	I'll take this business opportunity. I don't have a specific question here, or I want the answer to get rid of it, but we have too much in the procedures for putting different objects into space, both municipal and state acts, we have too many of these space regulators, which are practically in the stage of the procedure, not to say inventing individual obstacles, which are given by too loose regulations or regulations. And virtually, as lawyers say, four lawyers have four opinions, so four officials have different interpretations of a specific regulation or even an OPR. As far as this legislation is concerned, I would like to make it more specific in the ministries to avoid these obstacles in the future. We know that in many areas we are too rigid, too long. Europe doesn't know that. As far as we are concerned, in neighbouring Croatia, within three months, you will get everything, in Serbia in one month, in Austria in fourteen days and in Austria in five or six years. It just doesn't work. That's too much chocolate. Now that we have begun with these three laws, and it is likely to be another one, these areas should also be regulated. I know that these officials have been attacked by individual ministries too much to fear each other, because there are too many of them, and they set up investors, as if we don't need to be more flexible, faster, more efficient. If we don't do these basic laws, like ZUREP-2 and the Buildings Act, we're going to make this work, then we're going to do everything the way it is, and we're not going anywhere. But that's unacceptable. It's just one of the cases. We have a mining law, a regulation not to talk about other things. From experience, I could count from practice ten more such arrangements that hinder and burden people who want to build who want to create, but cannot. Not to mention how many investors have already passed Slovenia due to the longevity of these procedures. I appeal to you, Minister, to give a thorough attention to this in these debates and in the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u71	Mr Zvonko Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017, in the framework of the votes. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister of Environment and Space, will now answer Mr Danil Anton Ranc's question regarding the implementation of the government’s starting points in the operations of the Slovenian State Forests. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you. Thank you for the question, Mr Anton Danil Ranz. I can say that, as Minister of Environment and Space, I agree with the Government's adoption of the strategic plan for the Slovenian State Forests, which is also very important in terms of sustainable development. It is precisely because of the importance of the forest and wood sector that we have included this process in the framework programme for the transition to a green economy with an action plan adopted or adopted by the Government in October 2015. Through this action plan, we are directly implementing the starting point, as the area of wood, which within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, is exposed between the priority areas of Slovenia's transition to the green economy. Wood is defined as a source for sustainable economic development. The focus is to make the most of it as a renewable resource in the future. The aim is to reconnect and encourage the forest and forestry chain in Slovenia, increase the intensity of forest management, enable the development of wood processing into products with the highest added value and energy use of wood residues. The framework programme also includes the principles and orientation of sustainable development and forest management in Slovenia, based on the national forest programme. The forest is not only a source of forest wealth, but it contributes significantly to biodiversity and the preservation of natural values, which are the foundation of ecological balance in nature. It contributes to the preservation of good water and heritage culture. The Framework Programme for the Transition to the Green Economy also coordinates the monitoring of the implementation of the Action Plan, which includes activities of all sectors and is regularly monitored through a single set of measures for a better regulatory environment. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in cooperation with the Slovenian Institute for Forests and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, is responsible for carrying out individual activities under the framework of Sustainable forest and wood management as a source for sustainable economic development. In October 2015, the government also set up a partnership for the green economy, which includes 9 ministries. In addition to these, a larger number of stakeholders and partners are involved. The partnership promotes the transition to a green economy, activates a number of stakeholders, establishes dialogue and raises awareness and integrates policies and measures. Furthermore, the partnership also organises and carries out regional consultations in twelve regions where it collects proposals and identifies potentials for further guidance. As the transition to a green economy with circular management models is of paramount importance to me, I can say that forests and timber will be significantly involved in the future in the further directions imposed by the circular economy. The next year will be the preparation of the potentials and orientation of Slovenia for the circular economy, and the process will be set up to be aimed at co-created with stakeholders. In addition, the Ministry supports the promotion of the effective use of wood biomass for heating through the Climate Change Fund in 2017 and 2018. The programme provides support for the introduction and implementation of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to adapt to climate change, including awareness of the use of wood. The forest has a significantly lower environmental impact throughout its life cycle than other construction materials. In doing so, the Ministry will support the establishment of a single market platform for wood biomass for heating in Slovenia and the analysis of technological solutions and the assessment of the real costs of production of green flakes as [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u73	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u74	The President-in-Office, the Vice-President-in-Office, is on the move, so I would like to welcome both of you, including the Minister, of course, all colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to thank the distinguished minister for her answer. I think it was comprehensive, comprehensive, which I would immediately sign, with wonderful content and objectives, both climate, economic and wood conservation, as well as unique opportunities for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and green jobs. Of course, I might recall two questions that I also raised in writing or orally at the previous meeting when perhaps I did not get the full answer. In particular, we note that in Slovenia we are probably world recorders in writing beautiful programs, strategic plans, circular economy, smart specialization, wood is beautiful, which are excellently written documents, which are not in practice implemented as we wish. This was precisely the reason why, together in the coalition, we have prepared the Law on the Management of State Forests, which is a practical application to the practice of these good content strategic documents. Right here, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture is here, as a member of the Assembly of Commissioners, you have the opportunity to monitor the implementation of the strategy and the implementation of the Assembly's conclusions in the role of the Government. So here I would like to repeat the question: How will you, as a member of the SIDG Assembly in your capacity as Minister, ensure that the starting points and the Law on the Management of State Forests are also implemented in practice? Let me just repeat that we passed the law 17 months ago and the starting point eight months ago. Please, if you can answer these two questions as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, Mrs. Irene Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you. As you yourself have already stated, Mr Member, the Government is in the sense of the Assembly. It is true that individual ministries are making a proposal to appoint members of the Supervisory Board. The Ministry of Environment and Space is also one of the so-called Ministry of Environment, which is a member of the Supervisory Board and we decide on the Government as a group body. This way, I can assure you that using wood to replace non-renewable materials, we make a significant contribution to reducing the environmental and climate footprint. Therefore, as Minister of Environment and Space, I will endeavour to promote the use of the Slovenian wood which cannot be used for other purposes, so it cannot be processed, since wood processing has the highest value when we want to reduce the carbon footprint, if we simply say, the CO2 residues accumulate in the wood. This should be given the highest priority. But it is true that in the process of wood treatment itself remains to be found. That is why I will endeavour to use these residues in Slovenian consumption. It is the energy use of these residues, as this prevents CO2 from being released from other energy sources into the atmosphere. It is true, however, that if the wood falls, even if it falls in the forest, you release the CO2 that the wood first retains, contains, then relax and that the quality of the wood is actually reduced then it is zero. In the congregation ministry, I will make an effort to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Ranc, please, you have a request for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u78	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly! Let me just make it clear that I will not request a debate in the National Assembly on this subject. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u79	But [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u80	but I will support the Minister in any vote she votes in favour of implementing the guidelines or the starting points for the preparation of the SIDG strategy. [[…]] From this point of view, I have understood this in every way from the debate, but I still believe that the opportunity, as Minister, to contribute with its voice, to the achievement of good starting points as soon as possible. According to current practice, they are very slowly implemented and in wood collection and production centres, where you would just like to do what you say, unfortunately, in practice they do not come true. That is why I will also support your efforts in this direction with this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u81	Mr Ranc, this was not a procedural proposal. Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Mag. Branko Grims will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u82	Dear Madam Minister, history is simply a matter of learning from it. And today the situation in terms of the migration crisis is quite similar for Slovenia in mid-2015. At that time, I also warned that the fences should be set up, that steps should be taken together with Hungary, because the flow that was already present will be directed through Serbia to Hungary, towards Slovenia. Then I heard that it was pointless to scare people and so forth, and then even in the fall, I listened to your Secretary of State, Mr. Boss, to her, how surprised she was when at the end of half a million unverified illegal migrants floated across Slovenia. The situation for Slovenia is worse now, because if there is more illegal entry, more migrants, they will have no place to go. Slovenia will be a pocket. This time, no pardon. Because the Austrians control the border, and they also have military units ready at the entire Slovenian border, to sharpen it if necessary. Hungarians, of course, protect their borders consistently. Croatia will certainly not allow migrants from Slovenia to go to Croatia and from Italy to come. Because what happened? Austria has predicted that the border against Italy, including Brenner, will protect itself with the military — pictures of it can be seen online — so their intention is clear. When they will do so, it is probably in line with France, because France has quietly established a certain form of control against Italy, and now Macron, the President, has announced a drastic tightening of the migration policy at all, as well as the possibility of entry for illegal migrants. This, of course, in the fact that the Swiss border has long been protected by military units, means that the only open border remains the border against Slovenia. That's what you should be thinking about right now. Set up panel fences, take all those preventive measures that can be done without any particular difficulty right now, and thus give a clear signal to both migrants and Italian politicians that Slovenia will protect its inhabitants and its borders. This time it's on time. Because here you can't rely on anyone. Not even the neighbors, because I don't think it's a case for migrants to concentrate right at our border.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u83	Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u84	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Commissioner Grims, it is right to point out that Europe is still facing migratory pressures, because despite the apparent calm, the problem is not yet solved. At the moment, the problem remains in the fact that the external borders of the European Union are porous, allowing for massive revenues without first determining whether conditions for international protection are laid down at the external borders of the European Union. There is also a great manna in returning those who do not need international protection. The dynamic relationship between Italy and Austria is no surprise, nor was there a surprise in 2015 when the migration flow shifted to the Republic of Slovenia. There was no surprise at all for anyone at the Ministry of the Interior, for we have been preparing ourselves intensively for this very long and have also successfully managed migration flows through a sober, proportionate and timely policy based on the same parameters on which it will also be based in the future, i.e. on the one hand on operational measures, technical measures and, of course, on intensive political efforts in cooperation with countries on the migration path, any path that could be, all the way to target countries. Because no technical obstacle in itself can stop or even deter the tens of thousands of people we have faced in the past. So, as far as our preparations are concerned, the police are constantly preparing intensively within their powers and tasks, monitoring and analysing all the data and information it has, and on this basis is also preparing risk analyses. These are constantly being updated in a comparable way to what Frontex is doing at the level of the European Union, which is also a valuable source of information for us. We are actively preparing for the necessary response, taking into account all the circumstances necessary to safeguard the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the event that there is no European solution if the migration picture deteriorates again. As it is said, it is no surprise that Austria gives such mixed signals. This was already the case in 2016 when Austria announced for the first time the possibility of reintroducing border control. And even then, after the closure of the Western Balkan migration route and the rapid increase in the arrival of migrants across the sea into Italy, a plan of action was drawn up in the event of a significant increase in the arrival of migrants. In June 2016, police administrations Koper, Nova Gorica and Kranj, in cooperation with the General Police Administration, prepared plans for cases where either there was a manageable increase in migration flows or an excessive increase in this problem. These plans are being complemented on a regular basis and steps are envisaged to step up depending on risk analyses and also on the specific situation on the ground. As far as the current situation is concerned, regardless of what is happening to a certain extent also as a result of internal political problems in Austria, as far as migration is concerned, it is not particularly likely that migrants should be directed towards Slovenia. The target countries remain France, Germany, Switzerland, Austria and other countries in the north. Of course, as we say, we are counting on all scenarios, and we will pursue the objective of sober, proportionate and also responsive policies, which we have already demonstrated in the past that Slovenia is a credible country – and in fact, at the initiative of Slovenia, the Western Balkan route has been closed. We've proven we're capable. I believe that even in the future, if the migration picture deteriorates, we can successfully manage these phenomena. Of course, we are aware of all the changed circumstances, i.e. those that were not present in the first migration wave, that countries in the north limit the influx of migrants for one reason or another. As we say, we're counting on all scenarios and we're preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, do you request a follow-up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you. First of all, no one was surprised. Take this well, Madam Minister, but even you in the National Assembly, when you evaluated the behaviour of our neighbours, spoke out loud about how great a surprise this was. Not to say everything that either the President of the Government or your Secretary of State, Mr Šefic, spoke of as a surprise. The surprise was the number of migrants to turn to us, the surprise was how they acted, in short, everything was a surprise. The only thing that actually saved Slovenia was what some migrant said so beautifully when asked: “Look, Slovenia is such a beautiful country, beautiful nature, good people, will you stay here?” And he just shrugged and said, "Uh, Slovenia, red star, Lenin, Stalin, ugh, let's move on!" So he's shown that they're very intelligent people and they understand what kind of government we have. But you can't rely on that anymore. You really can't rely on that anymore. The situation is now that borders are closing within Europe, one way or another, and on the other, this story proves that it is not possible to rely on neighbors. On the contrary, we need to be confident that they will do their utmost to relieve themselves. And we, like then, will depend exclusively on ourselves again. This is said to be always borne in mind that those milder measures, prevention, which are extremely important because they give a clear political message, require a certain time for their implementation and implementation. And that's why we should approach it now, immediately, without hesitation. For the influx of migrants into Europe has increased again to the level that we have already witnessed, and a great deal comes illegally, beyond Italy's checkpoints, because of the left-wing [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. That was the debate, that was not the question. Mr. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, mag. Branko Grimes, procedurally, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u88	Look, first of all, it's procedural. I suggest that the National Assembly speak about this, because believe me, it will be one way or another, and not just once. I'm aware that there are many people on all sides who would rather forget this topic. But, ladies and gentlemen, no topic is more topical in Europe at this time, more in the long term, for the existence of the European Union as a whole, for the well-being and security of people and for the existence of individual countries such as Slovenia. There is no other subject that would be more important because it is not only a question of security, of life, of the integrity of people, of respect for women and children, of respect for human rights. These are all dimensions that are open here. It is even a question of the existence of civilization, as we know it. If this process continues, believe me, you have a wonderful example right now in Hamburg, where it will lead. The link between radical Muslims, those who are prone to violence, and leftists lead to destruction. Until Hamburg was on fire. In addition, take a look at these videos, at the fact that the streets are dug up, destroyed, burned up, reminds you of the situation in Arabia or, if you like, Syria. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the future of Europe if we do not resist it in the right way, here and now and in the right time. First, of course, with prevention and that's what I'm talking about. I therefore propose that this be discussed. Believe me, we'll be one way or another, because it's too serious, too fateful a case to be swept under a rug.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u89	Mag. Branko Grimes, you skipped one phase, but well, we'll decide on your procedural proposal tomorrow, 11. Julia, in the framework of the votes. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, as well as the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. To begin with, I, as a leftist, have somewhat muddy hands from the ground, but because we've been working on the field, because we'd be digging under the border some passageways to sneak through the refugees, as is claimed there, and swears Comrade Grims. I'm going back to my question. My question concerns all those of our population who live in the homes of older citizens, and thus their family members who work in their homes. However we turn and look at the situation, staying in our homes is by no means at the level that people do not resist. This is due to their systematic neglect and the consequences are known. The spaces are often old, inappropriate, some even in castles. The staff of the homes of the elderly are too numerous and overloaded. The numbers are best borne in mind by union data that nurses in their homes have done up to 100,000 overtimees that have not been paid. At the same time, there are increasing numbers of caregivers in their homes who are totally dependent on foreign aid. In short, homes have begun to replace nursing hospitals, and health care standards are such if I do a little caricature, as if it were holiday facilities. And the saddest part is that the prices for caregivers are still very high. Supply in a single room also amounts to €620 per month, which, of course, exceeds the minimum pension, while creating large surpluses at the expense of the exploitation and burnout of employees and, of course, at the expense of their high prices. Some of these houses are also in the concessionary regime and these concessionaries, such as the DEOS, which we have already discussed in this National Assembly, have already talked about this account and have served well on this account. My question is a kind of call to stop poverty at home and to place the burden on the caregivers. It takes place at the attention of the Community of Social Institutions that the provision in the homes of older citizens, due to the agreement reached between the Government and the ZZS, has shown to the extent that the resources allocated to them by the ZZS will not be sufficient and will, as a consequence, be passed on to the providers and their relatives. And I join the call of the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia, which points out that the payment of funds to be covered by compulsory health insurance is unfair and that sufficient resources must be provided to ensure that this payment is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Dear Ambassador Miha Kordish, distinguished others! I thank you for this question, which actually reflects the situation in the homes of older citizens, where the price is calculated on the basis of an agreed and accepted standard of health care. This standard is actually old, out of date. However, we are faced with elderly ones coming to their homes who need more and more of this health care. Unfortunately, however, I must say that, of course, this Community of Social Institutions actually shares the same fate of the general agreement and the level of prices of services as well as all other providers of health services, since the Community of Social Institutions is one of the partners involved and negotiated in this general agreement. This is precisely why, together with the Minister of Labour when adopting the general agreement for 2017, we have adopted an additional decision and commitment, as well as in the preparation of the long-term care law, where the special working group will overfuse the full standards and standards of health care as well as the cost of this health care so that other standards can already be met in the general agreement for 2018. I believe that a second price will also be paid, because unfortunately the price of these services in the general agreement for 2017 has fallen virtually to the 2014 price, which, of course, creates additional deficits both for healthcare providers and for older people's homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for my word as well! Thank you, Mr. Kordish, for the question! The fact is that this is a major problem and social welfare institutions have not been lost because of the fact that this loss has been paid out of care, that is a fact for many years, as the Court of Auditors has found. It's a condition that's just what it is. As the minister said, social security agencies share the same fate as health homes. On a proposal from the Ministry, this decision was also adopted by the Government because this situation is in fact from the point of view of what family members and caregivers are living in homes for the elderly, given the price that is unacceptable, given what is said. By 2018, new standards and new prices in this area must be adopted in a comprehensive manner. The fact is that today it is only up to 91.75 % of the 2014 service price, that is to say, not 100 %. The fact is, according to the social security institutions, it is a loss, you will not believe, 1.5 to 2 euros a day in health care. You mentioned earlier, and the fact is, the situation in our homes would be the same as in health care if it wasn't for this story that it is. When you talk about surpluses, you should know that the situation does not tolerate simplification, there 82 homes we have in Slovenia, states or surpluses or losses are different. But the fact is that homes for older people also manage market services, such as help at home, with which they receive most of the funds they then cover, so it is not so uniform. The situation is different from home to house. However, the Ministry is of the view that standards in the field of social security must be overstretched. But it is the fact that this is always linked to the establishment of long-term care, because unfortunately, until the system is in place, that means that if we raise standards and standards, it will go more on an individual, because without a systemic solution, which would only be with the long-term care law, we can only solve things this way. Unfortunately, the situation is as it is, but long-term care is essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you for your words, Mr President, and thank you to the Ministers for your answers. I hope that by 2018 some new standards and standards will actually be established. As far as the frame is concerned, we know that these things have been in the back for decades. At the same time, the nature of nursing care in nursing homes has also changed. They used to be homes, but now they're nursing hospitals where people need all the support they can get. In short, I hope that these standards will be raised and improved. The nurses burned down the force, I think I'll give you a purely practical case. [[…]] My mother is a nurse, and she works in a nursing home with her back completely destroyed because these girls have to move the elderly out of bed there. In short, it's a very garage job, I mean, these are really proletarians. At the same time, in the sector of the home of older citizens, we record surpluses that are mainly invested in infrastructure. These are some investments to improve some spatial capacity and so on. But of course, these surpluses are achieved at the expense of human resources malnutrition and overpayment of family members. The Socialists here think that we should approach the issue of surpluses in a way that starts the investment part of the home of older citizens systematically and deliberately to cover the state budget, i.e. public finances. Of course, it is also the issue of concessions, for example, the DEOS uses such surpluses for aggressive capitalist expansion, while offering very poor care to its suppliers. We have already had a debate on this in this Parliament on the basis of the quality of their food and so on. However, concessions must be severely seized, unjustifiable concessions withdrawn and removed in the long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u97	Here you go, Dr. Anya Digač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u98	Now I understand that this was an electoral programme of your socialists within the question of home care. I do not care that the people who listen to this know that simplification, as you have set it, is home with excess because care is too high, and because of the fact that human beings are undernutrient, so to substandardize and normatives, do not hold back. I said there are different situations in 82 homes. To generalize one or two homes at all, do not hold back and do wrong to others. They have help at home as a market activity, and most of it has more surpluses, which, of course, has nothing to do with, my dear Member, with the care and the price of the day provided. It is in some homes, only when we generalize and simplify things, it seems that everything in the system is wrong and that it is possible to solve systemic errors with one thing and the thing is solved. No, it is necessary to know the situation and there is always a problem in the details, which I believe are not so easily explained in one or two sentences. Homes for the elderly, certainly with long-term care, are a necessary systemic measure in order to systematically enable people to insure the risks ahead of us all, this is a long-term supply, where, by prolonging the life span, we will all face this by collecting risks to reduce the risks of individual being at risk. The fact is that today we are financing too much, absolutely too much, with individual contributions, which means that it burdens the family against all other risks, both at the level of the sick, in the area of age, there is the biggest problem here. We need this systemic solution and unfortunately we have not yet been able to agree on it at country level. That's it. Simplifications to make more investments will be a necessary assessment of how we will be existing homes, which were mostly built in the 1970s, so public homes, in what way we will rehabilitate them because they are needed, and that is also the fact that we will have to rehabilitate them. And generalization, and I don't want to be anyone's lawyer, but generalizing that bad work with concessionaires isn't holding up. So, even though I'm always a public defender, this evaluation doesn't hold. And that debate on food, of course, was a debate on its own.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u99	Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, I would like to discuss the state of the home of older citizens in our country, the care of the elderly and how we will bring this to the future, how we will raise standards and standards to relieve people, and how we will allocate additional public resources to enable infrastructure at the home of older citizens to develop normally. By the way, Minister Anja Kopač Dark, I am not with you on the battlefield once for a change with this issue, so that there should be no toxic submarines. As far as Deos is concerned, I have given a concrete case, I have not generalised it, but the situation from home to house is different, from home to home. But at the level of the whole industry, there are some surpluses that we can start talking about, let's say the use of these surpluses, they don't apply to additional jobs that go beyond standards and norms, but they invest in some infrastructure, into spaces that are often really sustained. And I think that we can not just prescribe all these surpluses at home and some commercial home activities, but also at the expense of high prices for family members and suppliers often. However, if we want to cut down more definitively here, but, of course, with this procedural proposal, I support the possibility of discussing this situation in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. Thank you very much. Mrs Erika Dekleva will ask the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u102	Dear Minister, hello! My question, as has been the case so far, is, of course, the central military training centre Poček. On the basis of an agreement on the harmonisation of interests regarding the use and management of military infrastructure in the municipality of Postojna in 2004, the Ministry of Defence carried out environmental monitoring at the Poček Central Training Centre in 2016. Researchers, ERICO Velenje, have identified increased levels of lead, cadmium, copper, chromium, nickel, mineral oils and zinc sites. The increased levels of lead and copper in the infantry range of Poček exceeded or reached a critical emission value, with a critical emission value of the density of each hazardous substance in the soil where, due to adverse effects or effects on humans and the environment, the contaminated soil is not suitable for the production of plants intended for human or animal consumption and for water retention or filtering. The mineral oil content was significantly higher compared to the 2005 survey. According to all these facts, I'm interested, first of all: What measures will the Ministry take to reduce pollution in Poček and to remedy the polluted area so that it does not penetrate the underground and pollute the drinking water source for several municipalities? Secondly, please indicate the values of individual soil, water and air pollutants, as well as limit, warning and critical values for individual types of pollutants. The chromium was also mentioned among metals, but it is not indicated which form it is. Krom 6, for example, is very cancerous, so please explain. It is also a controversial fact that the polluter also exercises control over himself or exercises control over himself through an authorised institution. I'm asking for an answer: Why is the monitoring not carried out by an independent institution, since the results of such measurements would be much more reliable? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Katič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u104	Dear Vice President. Your Honor, first of all, thank you for your answer. Last week, on 4 July 2017, the Ministry of Defence, together with the Municipality of Postojna, as well as with monitoring operators, the press conference in Postojna, where we presented very accurately the comprehensive monitoring with all the data. In order to explain everything you asked today, there is essentially not enough time for these few minutes, but the video of the press conference, both sound and video, is available on our website, and the presentation of monitoring extracts on our website and also on the website of the Municipality Postojna. Of course, we can also send you everything in writing. First of all, I would like to point out very good cooperation with the Municipality of Postojna, in particular within this coordination group, which you mentioned at the outset, and also in the overall monitoring, as well as in the execution of the contract for the selection of the monitoring operator, was also participated by the representative of the Municipality of Postojna. It seems very important to me that transparent, open and responsible, together with the local authorities, we have all the activities to present as much as possible to all those living around Poč, what activities of the Slovenian Armed Forces are at this central exercise and what all of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Ministry of Defence, are also doing to preserve nature and to prevent any pollution. And if you just look at the measures we're taking, and I'm going to list them for you. It is about the fact that the Slovenian Armed Forces are firing at precisely defined and previously prepared regional targets, all as determined by the State Spatial Plan, so that we can consistently remove and destroy all elements of ammunition and remnants of combat shooting, to use manoeuvre training ammunition, to use modern training and simulation systems also for weapons of larger calibres, including for the construction of modern shooting sites, with the greatest possible use of room shooting sites for infantry shooting and for the construction of parking spaces and modern parking spaces for ground and armoured vehicles. As far as Poč is concerned, we have the required environmental measures in the OsVAD laboratory, including soil protection during field training, ensuring proper maintenance of the rolling stock and machinery; fuel flow is not allowed; under military vehicles that have long been standing on unexploded surfaces, we set up impermeable fishing vessels to prevent soil and water pollution from oil and oil derivatives due to the possible uncertainty of vehicles; we also have all the necessary measures for the spillage of oil and fuel or other hazardous and harmful substances. We even made a package for use in different languages, which is obtained by all members of both the Slovenian Armed Forces and other visiting units at OSVAD. As demonstrated by the measurement, soil analyses were performed at 25 different locations and another reference location, the general findings are that in some parts of Počka the critical value of lead and copper was exceeded and the water was not contaminated. And here, as I have told you, you have attached the entire monitoring presentation. It is also noted that compared to the 2005 results, lead and copper concentrations are lower statistically for copper. As I said, in the area of water monitoring, we have found that water is not contaminated. The monitoring was also carried out for dust deposits, wild game and dry grass mapping. All of this is presented on the website. With regard to chromium, I would say only that it is chromium 6, the total chromium containing CR6 and CR3+. In addition, it was not analysed separately because this would require a different analysis, but if it were determined separately, this would mean a lower value. As for the obvious, who's involved and why control is such. This was provided for by the Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces Postojna, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No 17/14. The purpose of the monitoring period was to avoid any doubt about the independence of the institution, as I said, from 2016 to 2019. And for us, it's an independent institution. The Ministry of Defence is never and will never interfere with what contractors do on the ground. The project is carried out by the ZRC SAZU in addition to ERICO: Jovan Hadžija Biological Institute, Institute for Research of Crassus; Gosdar Institute of the Republic of Slovenia; KOVA, d. o. o.; and Aquarius, d. o. o., Ljubljana. It is funded by the Ministry of Defence, but as I said, on the basis of a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Deklava, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you. Minister, I didn't ask you for a full presentation of the monitoring and everything that was at the press conference. I wanted you to answer four very specific questions. I have to say, I didn't get these. The fact is that heavy metals are found in the earth, but such concentrated contents can only result from human activities or in this case military activities. Long-term exposure can, of course, have effects on the nervous system, we are talking about carcinogenic effects. We can also say that the analysis, as I know it, was done six months ago. So I wonder why it took us six months, six months, some measures could have been implemented all this time, because people who live there can be estimated even without all these analyses, that there are some activities that cause a lot of air pollution, soil, plants and more, perhaps even water. Well, it probably doesn't have to be specifically mentioned that we've recently entered the right to drinking water into the constitution. I'm so curious: If you find that you have not succeeded in all these measures in some time, do you intend to respect the referendum will of people and actually transfer or even abolish this training? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you. Dear Member! You said that we need to specify the values of individual soil, water, air, all border, warning and critical values for individual types of pollutants. It's such a set of materials. I said that at 25 different places plus another reference for comparison and all of this, unfortunately, I can't read to you right now if we're just talking about this data, and we're happy to give it to you in detail. I also said that you have all this information published on the website of the Municipality Postojna as well as on the website of the Ministry of Defence, with sound recordings and all. Professional services, contractors, had to complete their procedures and the Ministry of Defence did not proceed. But you can also ask the representatives of the congregation who work closely all the time, and this is our intention to be completely transparent, open, what is going on in Poček. And as you yourself said, in 2005 all the thresholds were significantly higher than they are now, in 2016. We will continue monitoring 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019. All they have to do is run procedures. And during this time we have significantly improved the situation at this central training centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces. But it is true that there was a polygon here, not only during the independent Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Army, but also far back in the past and that certain pollutions are also from the past. However, the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, will endeavour to operate in this area with as little impact as possible. This is the basic training site of the Slovenian Army, but we have no other such location. You know that the case is also before the Constitutional Court and we are waiting for the result, and then we will also see how it will be in the future. Without this exercise, the Slovenian Armed Forces are difficult to carry out, and we are fully aware of this as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Do you require a supplement or a procedural one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u110	No, I'm just suggesting that we discuss this because the excess values show a significant improvement, so I suggest we discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle will ask the Minister of Justice a question, mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Secretary, we will go and media really. My first question for you is force is simple. I would ask you to define or explain: What should be the integrity of a person in high public office or what action and conduct do you expect from high-level officials? I would like to know whether your opinion can become a minister, or whether it can remain in the position of a minister, who does not comply with the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, which violates legislation that violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which has proven to be misleading or has been caught in lies in the country of important content — more on this subject — which does not want to explain the origin of the assets that act in a transparent manner. So I'm wondering: Can such a person become a minister or remain a minister? And the third question: How can the Minister of Justice ensure the integrity of the justice system, where we have, but now it is already obvious, respected Minister, double criteria? Some are convicted by a rapid procedure, while others are accused of falling after each other, or burdensome evidence is erased as a result of the delay of the prosecution. And of course, because this is also about the integrity of the ministry that you run, I am interested in, you once said, "in some cases, heads will fly." I want to know: How do we know what happened in this last case when the burdensome evidence with Mr. Zoran Jankovic is erased, and I am interested in whether, in this case, the heads will fly if you have already announced it or have they already flown away? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Member, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm going to have to assume that in that first part of the question you had in mind me. You didn't name me, but I understand all these negative sounds, usually coming from your side. To your question, I will be happy to answer the oral question when you ask it. For you have sent a question to the oral question that I have here before me – and as you know the rules of procedure determine, by what date and by what time do you have to send it – which question does he have, if we take away the letters of union and the unsound words, or as they say, exactly 9 words: “The Minister responsible for justice will ask about the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption.” If you continue to do so, but not with any, of course, seen, mini campaign against me, I will gladly answer you. But you can also, of course, with a mini or a max campaign against me, but you have to ask that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u116	Yes, dear Minister, look, I have asked you questions that relate exactly to what I have asked you, i.e. to integrity or to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. But you don't want to answer, that's your problem, but unfortunately also citizens and citizens see it. Here you can see what your operation is like. Look, Minister, regardless of how you have not responded to my specific questions now, you should never have taken up the position of Minister of Justice, since you have demonstrated, both in the past and in the present, what a person in such a situation should not also be in view of the definition of integrity in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. But I will dare, Mr. Minister, because you are a minister, to ask the following questions, and this is also about integrity. A few weeks ago, the money-laundering affair, almost billions of dollars via the New Ljubljana Bank for the financing of terrorism, reverberated in public. You said that, as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, you had filed a criminal complaint because you had been informed by whistleblower that you had filed this criminal complaint with the competent authorities. At the same time, you said you didn't do this on the committee because it doesn't belong to your jurisdiction. Both the Anti-Corruption Commission, led by Mr Štefanec and the National Investigation Office, said that they had not spoken the truth and had never received criminal charges. There's no official signature anywhere, nothing. I'd like to know: What's up now? And secondly: Do you intend to accept responsibility and resign as Minister of Justice because in such an important matter as this affair, that is, money laundering, billions of dollars, you lied to the Slovenian public and also deceived them? It is also a matter of protecting the integrity of the ministry you are leading. Please give me a concrete answer to this question raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Of course, I must say before I give the floor to the Minister that, of course, such a wide-ranging question, at least what it is, is not correct. Of course, integrity and corruption are extremely broad concepts, but then, of course, we could say only, I ask the Minister a question, and we would ask anything, would be exactly the same. So I think this question, if we read it, this sentence, really, but well, the minister will obviously be [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] “I will ask the Minister responsible for justice about the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption.” So, of course, that would be the man, at least I, if I saw it, yeah, that's what it's called, it's a theory. Otherwise, we would write in concrete terms, let's say the question of this and that. That would be correct. But I'm not saying, of course, in politics everything is possible. But now the minister will obviously answer. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much. By complementing the question and with all these language bravurs, which you have added to it, you have, of course, only confirmed what I have answered you in the beginning. In the meantime, you lied, I apologize, because you were present at a meeting of the Justice Committee last week, it seems to me that it was, or 14 days ago. I read the magnetogram of this meeting, where, to your great surprise, the current President of the Commission explicitly said that they had found documentation on the Commission to prevent corruption – this is in the magnetogram – he said they had not found the complaint, but of course the definition of the complaint could be very different. We have an announcement, we have complaints and we have documentation, and so I have made it very clear to the public. Look, you can snap your head two hundred times, but it's right for the public to hear it, and of course I had two statements in front of the TV cameras that day, and I said in the second statement, very clearly, that it was a complaint, an announcement or a file release. You know, dear colleague, it's really sad that, in fact, with such direct lies, you're trying to divert attention from something as serious as the case was in the case of an alleged money laundering where KPK was one of the few institutions that at least did its job. But if I'm correctly informed, I'm just guessing, I'm not saying anything, so you won't tell me I'm lying, but at the time of your government, the investigation was stopped. You probably didn't know anything about this, but look, I'm also interested, because at the time they had the documentation, even during your Presidency of the Intelligence and Security Commission, I think your colleague Blackach was the chairman. Again, don't take my word for it, but I think I have the right information, and the Commission has been informed by then, and you haven't acted. At least the KPK acted, and there is documentation for that. But everything else, look, we know, that's how things on your side go to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have a procedural proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Logar, please, procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u120	Yes, thank you, Vice-President or Chairman. If I am not mistaken, you are a Member, and if I am not mistaken, the National Assembly is a separate branch of power as an executive branch of government, that is, the Government. If so, we have a two-powered coup on questions sent to the ministers and the President of the Government. I can't put a procedural mirror on you because you explicitly put yourself on the side of the executive branch of power, that is, the minister. You didn't protect the branch of the legislature, but you put yourself on the side of the government. However, in the context of the procedural proposal, I can ask you to protect the representatives of the legislative branch of power, i.e. Members, when ministers, when they respond, personally deal with them. In fact, we have just witnessed the personal accounting of the Minister of Justice, which is already unworthy of being heard by the Minister of Justice, with one of the members of the opposition party. I ask you to remind the Minister of Justice that the question raised should be handled as a minister, i.e. as an institution of the government, not as a personal offense, or as a matter of course as opposed to someone in the yard who objects to someone else because he disagrees with him. That the question of the Member State is right and that it is appropriate, the Minister also bears witness that the question was answered. And he answered, I think, he spent all his time, so he found enough starting points to answer the question, and he used personal, low-pitched tones. I propose that you protect the Member of Parliament or the Institute of Parliament's questions against the Government's behaviour in answering these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I agree with you about the other one, of course, only around the first one, about the question of the Member State as such, but not because the question must have been previously raised, and this question of course was not. Article 242 is, I think, quite clear, and that's why I'm staying with what I said. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u122	Mr. Vice President. Yes, we have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, otherwise it is in the changing phase, but we all know what it should be and what the question must be. If the question of a Member was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in force, the President of the National Assembly would not even have classified it as the point we have today, that is, the question of a Member State. If you remember, in the working group in which we are both, it is repeatedly said that in the past, all issues relating to local affairs have been removed from the questions sent, as written questions are addressed. At the meetings of the National Assembly, on so-called oral parliamentary issues, we have some broader, more general parliamentary issues. And if the President of the National Assembly considers that this issue is not universal enough, and colleague Eva Irgl has not taken advantage of it, but has asked in general, then indeed, Mr Vice-President, I propose that you read once again the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of asking oral questions, and that at the end, when you read it, you can agree that it was not wrong to ask the question raised by the Member of Parliament, both in those words that have been written down and also in the oral part of the implementation of colleague Eve Irgl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you very much. What Mrs Eva Irgle was saying was additional. What the Rules of Procedure says is clear – the question must be raised in advance. Such a general question does not, of course, give the Minister the opportunity to prepare for it. But good. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mrs Eva Irgle, you have the floor and also the procedural proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] No, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President-in-Office. I want a debate to be held in the National Assembly on the response of the Minister of Justice. First of all, Mr. Secretary, about deception and lies. Look, you said to the Slovenian public that you filed a criminal complaint with the competent authorities. Later on, it turned out not to be so. So if someone's cheating and who's lying, we know where the real address book is. Now let me also justify why it is necessary to discuss the Minister's response or the integrity of the Minister of Justice. See, Mr Minister, as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, you have repeatedly abused your position in political accounting. Let me just remind you, for example, of Janez Janša, which led to the collapse of the government. Later, you were personally proven to have acted contrary to the Constitution. So it's illegal. As President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, you did not report your wife's business. This is all in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. You couldn't explain to the Commission why the house you're staying in was not entered into the GURS records. Here, let me make it clear that citizens and citizens have received a letter from the GURS twice to settle matters. You didn't do it. Then you didn't want to submit any of the bills related to the renovation of your house to the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, while, on the other hand, you asked for cuts in electricity bills 15 years ago. Mr Minister, among other things, you have been granted a loan for the house, substantially at more favourable prices than other citizens. And I'm wondering why you were personally privileged. The Court of Auditors told you that, as President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, you have violated several laws, and I think that 8 of these regulations, in the end, the Supreme Court has told you that you have violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Anti-Corruption Commission, led by Mr Štefanec and also by the National Investigation Office, said they had never received a criminal complaint in the event of a billion-dollar NLB money laundering. That must be said, otherwise I do not understand why you went before the public and told them that you had filed a criminal complaint with the competent authorities. In view of all the above, I would therefore like to see an in-depth debate in the National Assembly on the integrity and functioning of the Minister of Justice. And once again, Mr Minister, I have asked you exactly what I have sent you or referred you as a question in advance. I asked you about the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, because it is this law that is clear and clear what Article 4 of the Law says about the integrity of the one who is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle, your proposal will be discussed by the National Assembly 11. 7, so tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Ludmila Novak will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I will ask you about the maintenance of the management in Slovenia, because this area also belongs to your department. In 2003, the Unesc Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Cultural Heritage was adopted. It has signed this Convention and has also accepted Slovenia. Today, we note that the situation of handball players in Slovenia is very poor in all areas, in status, in legislation, in the social field. Unfortunately, there has also been a very rapid decline in the number of handicrafts in recent years, and this has also dried up certain handicrafts, which is part of the unfathomable cultural heritage, so it is a reduction of the unfathomable cultural heritage. This also prevents knowledge from being passed on to younger generations. At the same time, younger generations are also innovative, which can continue to develop these industries. Otherwise we have in Slovenia, they say handicrafts, some crumbs, some good designs, for example, within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia there is a marketing brand “Meducation – Art & Craft Slovenia”. They evaluate and expertly evaluate different products. We also have some regional handball centres, which are now being merged into consortiums of handball centres. However, they still argue that all of this is insufficient, that there is an under-planned approach to education, with regard to conservation, transfer of this intangible cultural heritage to younger generations. And that's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: What do you think, is Slovenian legislation in the field of conservation and development of management appropriate? Do you recognize handiwork as an important industry in the development of tourism? Is this also defined in the strategic documents for this area? Are you planning any changes to the legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u128	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we are aware that management is an important segment of the small economy, and undoubtedly it plays an important role in the development of tourism. I must be honest to say that I have seen progress in this area in particular in recent times, because in the production of souvenirs that are somehow associated with Slovenia, something has invested or we have experienced quite a bit of development. This is an area of interest that we believe must be preserved and encouraged. Handicrafts or domestic crafts and craftsmanship are partly regulated by the Commercial Law at this time. As you yourself said, within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, a system for the award of a certificate is divided, which we call: “Cooperation – Art & Craft Slovenia”. This certificate confirms that a particular product can be counted and named as a subject of domestic craftsmanship and art craftsmanship. Slovenia is an area of many preserved handicrafts and crafts and of characteristic ethnological and other traditional specialities, which, at least to my mind, have recently taken a step forward. In the context of the products of small and artistic crafts, blacksmiths, chippers, hatpers, masters and other masters of traditional crafts, specialities also take place in tourism, particularly through memorialism, as I have said, and I believe that there is still some room for further development. Within the framework of the Proposal for a Strategy for the Sustainable Growth of Slovenian Tourism 2017-2021 and measures to improve SME policies for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is envisaged to establish a model for the integration of tourism, agriculture, crafts, design and creative activities. Under this model, activity is also envisaged to create a specific brand that would further define this segment in the direction of memorialisation. It is said that these are souvenirs and products of crafts, culinary monuments and designer products from Slovenia. Monuments will also be included, which are linked to the country's cultural heritage and also to the unique offer of contemporary Slovenian creative activities. At this point in time, no or no legal change is foreseen in the short term. We would first like to see conditions in this area through the new guidelines adopted on sustainable growth in Slovenian tourism. And in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, we still have the opportunity to give a specific place or weight to this type of activity. As you yourself have found, I agree with myself that the area to be preserved in the first place and encouraged, in particular in terms of support, promotion and preservation of traditional crafts professions, skills and skills. Not only to preserve this in the sense of having some museum value, but because in some part it is also possible for the future to be an economic sector that will give bread to a certain number of people who have knowledge and skills, that we know how to preserve these old acquisitions even further on how many economic foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you will request a complete reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u130	Mr. Secretary, I see you're in favor of this area. It is certainly right to pay great attention to products, to include them in the tourist offer, but I am concerned that there will be no more people who will be able to work these products, because their status, social status, is not properly regulated, there is no proper way to educate them. And that's not systematically well-ordered enough. In other countries implementing this Unesco Convention, for example, they promote the maintenance of the management by financing, development, education, promotion, promotion of sales of products, legal regulation in support of management and so on. Look, I'm offering you a well-intentioned hand. There is no longer much time until the end of this term, for the Act on the Maintenance of Management is in preparation. Both the Chamber of Commerce and Business and recognized authority, such as Prof. Dr. Janez Bogataj, then the handicrafts centres, participated in the drafting of the law. In short, in preparation, I hope to introduce a law that I will briefly – with the support of some other Members – with the support of others. I hope that you will study the law and, of course, I will also be willing to take into account your proposals, well-intentioned – I believe they will be well-intentioned, right. Then this law can be adopted in due course. The handicrafts are looking forward to it. For from the fact that someone works, he has knowledge that is truly irreplaceable, some people may also live. Above all, it is important to transfer to young generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Restoršek, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u132	Yes, once again, I must say that I will take my stand, I am committed to creating the conditions for the handicrafts to find the economic basis for dealing with such professions. Of course, in such important areas that have a cultural, historical note, museum value, the preservation of tradition back, there is also a need to find direct incentives. We can't put everything right on the first ball on economic grounds. Therefore, we will continue to work, as I have said, that within existing opportunities and calls for small and medium-sized enterprises, we will give a special weight or a part of the weight to maintain the handicrafts professions. This isn't just about our ministry right now, but we're also going to have to do something about it in the education system. We are open to all initiatives. The least I can say is that we will examine your proposal in detail and properly. Again, I repeat, in any case, we are trying to enable the handicrafts to live economically from what they are doing. Now if I put this back on tourism, as the numbers grow in tourism, as our tourism develops comprehensively and greenly, the best foundation is being created so that various handicrafts or old professions that have disappeared in a small way can be preserved in one way or another. However, I believe that it will not be a good solution to the situation where we will be able to save someone's status in order to remain a living monument, but it will be a success if we allow this matter to continue to take place on the market in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u134	Yes, I have a procedural proposal to vote on the proposal to discuss this issue in Parliament, because the situation is critical. Mr Minister, I am pleased that you are pleased that this proposal will come into the procedure of Members to be examined. I believe that you are in favour of all good proposals, that you do not have a hindrance to the opposition's proposal, or I suppose that the proposal will also be supported by the coalition Members, because the problem is pressing. This law on the conservation of handicrafts has been passed for many years. I am aware that it interferes with different areas, including the Ministry of Education, because it foresees certain education for the economy, including culture, as well as the preservation of an unfathomable cultural heritage. So the law itself is very demanding. However, as I have already said, the area is very critical, the pretzels and the handicrafts constantly warn that there are fewer and fewer of them, thus some of the knowledge is dying out, disappearing. I know that you have a lot of experience in the development of tourism, that it is also known that tourism in Slovenia is on the rise, we have probably not done everything yet to further develop this industry, so I expect, after this debate, for which we will vote to highlight this issue from all angles. I therefore propose that we also discuss this subject at a meeting of the National Assembly. However, if the proposal is not put to the vote, we will, in any way, also table a proposal for a law on the maintenance of the works.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj and Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Members, Members of Parliament and all others present! At the June meeting of the National Assembly, I asked you an oral question on the problems of municipalities, and I highlighted the case of the Municipality of Command, which had for a long time at the Ministry of Environment and Space of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as with the competent authorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy, unsuccessfully sought to recover the fair work of its funds invested in municipal cohesion projects. I was happy to see your assurance or to make sure that the problem that was the reason or reason for asking the oral question would be resolved within a week. The failure to pay funds to municipalities was then due to problems in the functioning of the information system in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and cohesion policy and, according to other information, payments were not to be made because the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Space had not yet carried out everything that the Ministry was competent for. Unfortunately, these days, after the information from the affected, frustrated and distraught municipalities, because both ministers have not yet come to terms, I also find that the problem still exists. Because of problems with information support, the congregation is still not expected to receive the promised funds. In small municipalities, the absence of expected inflows of funds can cause serious liquidity problems, making it particularly difficult for these municipalities to recover eligible funds. I believe that the situation is also unpleasant for you as responsible ministers for solving the problems I am exposing. It may even be stressful, since the problems that have been attributed to their subordinates have not yet been solved. But let us imagine the difficulties and stress that all of us who are economically dependent on the resources that we have expected, as well as the excitement of all of us who believe last month that the problem I have exhibited at the previous parliamentary session will be solved within a week. I regret that today I am forced to repeat the question from the previous So when will that problem be resolved? For the answer, I hope positive, thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Smercolj, please. Oh, the other way around. All right, Mrs. Irene Maycen, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. Since I was not present at the last meeting of the National Assembly, I also did not give an oral answer to this question, but since then until 6 July the fact that it could be a beneficiary, namely the Municipality of Command, into the EMA information system, EMA has submitted an application for payment to the new information system used in the operation of the intermediary body with beneficiaries. This EMA programme started to operate this year and, as usual, there are some problems in such large-scale programmes at the beginning. It is true that the Municipality of Komenda is one of the municipalities that carries out cohesion projects within the operational programme for the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020 and operates with the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is true, however, that this municipality has now submitted a request of EUR 770,000. So this is a large, extensive claim. It is true that our professional services immediately approached the review of this application. If the application is justified, if the checks do not find any irregularities, but these checks must be carried out within eight days, that application shall be made for payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here's Mrs. Alenka Smercolj, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u140	A nice greeting for me, too! I'm going to continue where the Minister actually finished, and I'm going to give an answer to why it actually lasted longer than the Minister and I assumed. The fact is that we have actually had some problems with electronic document signing during this period, and we have simply been very caught up in this story. But the fact is, last week electronic signatures were resolved, so now the contracts have started to come or can be signed without a hitch. This also means that not only will we solve the problem of the Community of Command here, but the honourable Member, three weeks ago when we talked about it, there are also those other congregations that carry out these projects. I remember very well that we have, in fact, extended this issue to everything. So now in this part the system actually works. However, all the claims that will now come, I also believe from the information that I have from my colleagues, these are really big investment projects, and all these claims are very extensive, so that even once the system works, of course, professional services on the mediation body need sufficient time to review the whole stories. But maybe just a few more words, which we will also talk about this week in the government, and then in the context of the report on the implementation of European cohesion policy, also in the National Assembly of the Committee on European Affairs. Maybe a few more words about what's going on with EMA, I believe someone else is interested. With 1. 6. a new information system went into production. I've talked more about this in the last session. Perhaps what I would like to stress today is that we have chosen the actual period, which is the simplest period. Why the simplest? Or I'll say, not the simplest, but the least painful. During this period from 31. 3. to 31. 7. We do not certify expenditure in Brussels. This is in accordance with the agreement for the European Commission to conclude the reporting period. In fact, at the time all systems are less burdened, so now the resources can actually deal more with the transfer itself and with the roles to be added to e-cohesion with those that have not yet been available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u142	I would certainly like to make it possible to provide further clarifications, because there is a problem of a large number of municipalities, not just the Commune, but from there I get direct information about what is happening with the EMA programme. There were still problems with the programme on Friday, despite the fact that they were introduced, as the Minister said the data was entered into information support or into this EMA programme, there were still problems with electronic signing and therefore no payment could be made. I hope that, after these assurances that I have received today, it will be within eight days, that this will be done and that not only the Municipality of Command but also the other municipalities that have this problem will receive the funds paid. However, since there are serious problems in the congregations, if there is any further information, I think it will be welcome on your part. If electronic signing works now, I am happy, but I believe that in the future, when new programmes are being introduced, that these should really be well tested, and I also hope that those who have prepared the programme will be aware of this with regard to the financial resources they will receive for the programme, which has obviously had a number of shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Can I help you? [[…]] Mrs. Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u144	The EMA program is a complex program. If we are looking at that there are several thousand users and that at this point in time practically what we are talking about payments, we are dealing with thousands of operations, that there is no program – I have already been working in this area – which could be tested to the extent that from day one everything can be done without problems. The fact is, we're in production. The fact is that already more than 80% of all users from the previous system are registered, that all intermediate bodies can actually work on the roles. The fact is, when migration is actually made, it is necessary to add to the system the vast amount of data required by e-cohesion and the European Commission in such a way that the system is substantially different from the old, because it dealt exclusively with payments. Here, in fact, we have basically the full implementation of cohesion policy, from the legal bases, contracts and everything else, everything is now in one place. Of course, it's not a simple story. I believe they'll have fewer problems every day. In fact, every week, when we deal with all the problems that exist in the project world, the trend of all mistakes decreases nicely. I believe we will take this first most important step by the end of July. Why is the first one the most important? Because virtually all new applications need to be transferred to the system. Already, 30 new applications for production have been introduced without problems. This means that everything that's new, we don't have any problems there, but with these old ones, in fact, with all the information that needs to be added and with all the controls that we have, and here, the time story is long. Once all this information has been entered by the authorities, we have the Funding Sector reviewing it again, so that we no longer have problems. And from this title, this, I will say, is a long-term work in this beginning, but it will give us the right results in the long run. I believe and hope that we will be able to speak very differently about this subject in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister for Public Administration Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, I personally think, but I also think that most of those who have similar problems that I now have, that it is unacceptable that in the digital age part of the rural population on the outskirts of Slovenia does not have access to mobile technologies. While suppliers boast more than 90% coverage of the signal and the government is full of beautiful words about even development, individuals in rural areas face or face continuous loss of signal as a result of the excessive sownness of broadcasters in a highly hilly area. It is understandable that economic operators do not find economic interest in the provision of their services in the context of relatively sparse housing and terrain, but in this case, the Government, which has to take care of equivalent development opportunities, is expected to actively intervene and generate such an economic interest with certain incentives. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask: What has the Government or you, as minister and ministry, done in these three years of its mandate to resolve this problem in order to improve this situation? What do you plan to do in the future, in what way, where and when?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Member, for this question, because I am pleased to list some of the things that give some results and, above all, we have started this momentum even more intensively. In fact, you have before you the new Law on Electronic Communications, whose main objective is to transpose a European directive called Cost Reduction, which can accelerate the construction of networks, because it requires the sharing of resources from different operators, and in this way we will also appreciate the availability of this equipment. It is a synergistic effect in the construction of all kinds of networks, and it also increases the possibility that those smaller operators, including those who may be more interested in rural environments, can better access the necessary infrastructure to provide the whole service. The invitation to tender, so-called GOŠO-3, to co-finance these parts of the network, which are not commercially interesting to mention, is already the third in line. And it is the law that is now in the parliamentary benches that is the condition for the third call. But there were already two of them that actually co-financed that part of building networks when it wasn't commercially interesting. That is why we have also conducted a so-called market interest test in last year and this year, and we have identified those areas for which there is not enough market interest for operators to set up themselves, and for these areas, as soon as the law is adopted, the call will be renewed in the third phase, and thus co-financed access for those environments that are less commercially interesting. In this call, it is also interesting to insist that everywhere the base stations are set up and where the centres for these communications are made, there is also a Wi-Fi, a real public access point for wireless networks. What we are still doing within this government, you may have noticed that we are very strongly committed to establishing a so-called 5G network that will provide substantial better coverage. We are in close contact with the European Commission, and we also have a strong consortium in Slovenia of both companies that build it, research institutes, ministries, all the others that we are trying to immediately prepare for the establishment of the so-called 5G network on the 700th megaherce band. 16. 6. AKOS has also issued a call for the allocation of radio frequencies for 3400 to 3,600 megahertz, with which we can actually start testing these new wireless networks, which have significantly better coverage. This invitation to tender is already in place. Finally, we are also very active in the call for a European Commission, the so-called Wi-Fi for Europe project, which allows, I think, is now the last issue, the 90 million funding of the European Commission for the construction of wireless networks, the Wi-Fi networks for local communities. We have already set up a specific website here, we are working with associations of municipalities to provide as much information as possible to ensure that municipalities are as successful as possible in direct calls for European calls, and we have also managed to speak out in European-level discussions how to allocate funds in such a way that Slovenia will also be fully involved in the construction of these networks. As you can see, however, it is also interesting that last year's data in Slovenia shows that there is 94% coverage with mobile signals. The European Union average is 84%. It means we're better covered here, but that doesn't mean we're not even trying to improve this coverage. He's up to 30. 6th deadline, when the operators also had to submit new reports, and at the end of this month we expect fresh data from operators, where we will see what real coverage is. Above all, we are also interested in how operators have fulfilled those commitments they have undertaken by assigning frequencies to the call for tenders, because they have also committed themselves to expanding and upgrading networks in those parts that have not yet been built, and this is now also a national regulator whose task is to verify whether the operators have actually fulfilled those tasks. In short, the situation in this area is better than the European average, but there are still so-called white foxes. We continue and even strengthen measures to increase construction in those areas where there is no market interest, so that the population in rural areas is not therefore deprived. But we are also very active in the new projects that the European Union is launching to allow for comprehensive coverage with fast networks, no matter where you actually live in Slovenia. This is a few of the key points that we are actually implementing, which have already been implemented and which we are planning. Not only do we want to, but concrete activities are already under way for this implementation, especially in 5G areas and by building so-called Wi-Fi networks in local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u150	Yes, thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, everything you've just said is really nice and sound. But if you were to find yourself in the situation I am in, say, I'm a member of the fourth term, and you made a deal with A1, I don't have a single line of phone signal at home, I can't answer anything, I don't have Internet, I don't have anything like living in Africa. Member of the National Assembly. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine that? But I'm not just talking about myself. Come to the Slovenian Mountains, come to Šentilj, come to the Pesnica, so that I do not speak the borders of Austria-Slovenia, i.e. the border. And come and look 5 kilometers from Maribor to Pesnica, people can't do anything over the Internet, virtually their signal appears and disappears. At this time! And believe me. And we're talking about some balanced development of this society, this country. People, young people, young people, high school students today, or, say, high school students are virtually unable to function without the Internet because they demand it through school programs, and these people are, of course, leaving those places and moving out. Mr. Minister, I ask you: How long will I, a member of the National Assembly, wait until I can use the phone? Please answer this because you are responsible for this and are responsible for this, because you have moved from Telekom to A1 and have not even wondered whether this A1 covers enough Slovenia to cover at least the Members so that we can function normally so that we can do our job. I can't do my job. That's why it's you and the one who signed this contract from your side. I expect you to solve this problem as soon as possible, so that I won't be able to function because you're making it impossible for me to do my job.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you. Now I understand more clearly the nature of your question. Why did we move from Telekom to A1? Due to the fact that A1 was selected on a public invitation to tender under the same criteria. This is the reason for the call for proposals and the rational use of funds. A1 and Telekom have a very similar coverage according to my information, and we also requested additional options from the provider at a time, this is part of the call when actually certain individuals cannot have access. I recommend you turn to A1 and request a boost signal and a repeater. In many cases they have already done so. Signal reinforcements in buildings [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Contact the provider because this is not regulated by the Ministry, but by the internet service provider. It's a commercial service, the Ministry can't interfere as such. As far as rural and optics are concerned, we have identified all households that actually have limited access to the signal. It is for these households, which are registered, that we devote special resources to the third call for proposals, so that they have access to the Internet, because I fully agree with you, that access to the Internet is one of the basic standards that we must ensure in this country. Unfortunately, we do not have access in all areas of Slovenia and elsewhere. Therefore, we are investing in public funds to co-finance commercial suppliers, so that even in this area, although there is no commercial interest, they will build this access. Many households already have this, and those who are missing will also receive this signal in the future. So there are some technical solutions. The fact is that in the invitation to tender, we did not set the criteria for who are Members and where they live, but the criteria of accessibility in households, because we are all the same before the use of public infrastructure. I tell you that there are opportunities when your individual problem can be solved by a request to the operator, because this possibility was due to the invitation to tender, and I hope that there will be as few households as possible and such cases as there will be no signal in the future. That's all I can say is what we do and do to keep these cases as few as possible. However, I will be happy to find out in the report that we will have at the end of this month on the table how much fewer households that still do not have access to a mobile signal, as well as access to a decent flow rate of a fixed signal, say, optics or copper access. So that each household is specially registered and under financial options we also co-finance construction in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, Madam Secretary. I know you have your hands full, and each of us is trying to present our problem as the greatest in the field of health. I would just like to try until autumn, when we decide to interpret, in some way to eliminate what we are going to do for the benefit of all the patients and our citizens. I come from the westernmost part of Slovenia, whose dominant hospital is the Šempetr hospital of Dr. Franz Derganz, which covers 120 thousand inhabitants, according to the new not only from Slovenian work but also from abroad, from Italian work. We know well, I believe that you too, Madam Minister, are trying to implement a pioneering project through the EGTC so that Italians or citizens of the Republic of Italy can also participate in health services in some segments in Slovenia. My question, and here I will ask you for a comment, is, and is particularly touching the general agreement for 2017. The Šempeter hospital has had a lot of negative experience in recent years, as far as these arrangements and this agreement are concerned. There is always a feeling that the westernmost hospital is facing visas to other hospitals. I am fully aware that the health situation is difficult, especially as regards the health money itself, which is intended, but it is a matter of principle and proportionality, even when it comes to this hospital. Indeed, the agreements and arrangements that are adopted should also be respected, especially when compared with other hospitals. Everything that was, the vast majority, which was agreed in the general agreement, was also followed by the ministry. Unfortunately for 2017, at least as far as this hospital is concerned, at least in this case it shows that this is not the case. Of course, it is useless to speak here in public about what this brings or brings to the local environment. Not to mention the development of services themselves or the development of human resources and, of course, activities as such. I am interested, first of all, in your comment on the promises made and on the non-implementation of these. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u156	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Mr Matjaž Germany! Nova Gorica General Hospital is not the only hospital in Slovenia dealing with difficult business conditions and liquidity problems. The operating conditions of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance did not allow last year to continue this year. Among other things, for reasons of agreement, general agreement with trade unions, hospitals had to pay for all advances in payment classes last September, which of course was not covered by the payment of programmes paid by the payer, this is the Institute of Health Insurance, because there were not enough contributions that are the basis for funding these programmes. Thus, in this year's general agreement, we were unable to take into account any price rises in these programmes and therefore these prices actually fell to 2014. In addition, it should be said that in 2016, according to 2015, the compensation for the patient increased significantly to 30 days, by 16 %. And that we are already increasing these payments by 20% in the first five months of this year compared to 2016. Of course, in order to maintain affordable public health and, of course, to pay for all the services performed by hospitals, additional sources of funding must be provided, including for the purpose of stabilising the operations of institutions, particularly hospitals that suffer or have suffered all the consequences of the financial crisis and all the austerity measures that have been taken by past governments in the context of public financial recovery. Therefore, in addition to structural measures, it will be necessary to adopt system laws and also to act very quickly, in the short term. However, I have something else to add, namely that Nova Gorica Hospital, although it could have received funds, unfortunately did not even implement the general agreement of the agreed programme in 2016. Thus, the failure to reach a plan of prospective cases has led to a loss of EUR 639 000 712 due to the failure of the programme that would otherwise have been paid, and has not further implemented outpatient services and imaging diagnostics, which has further resulted in a loss of revenue of EUR 687 000 969. Why am I saying this? Because, of course, it is necessary to take a full look at the matter. One is the agreed programme financed, the prices paid by the health department and the other is that the reasons are probably on the hospital’s side and why it has not been fully implemented and could have been fully paid. As a result, I also mentioned the loss or failure of such programs. The enlargement of the programmes for the general agreement for 2017 was very limited. In practice, only € 2.1 million of additional hospital programmes have been distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, my question is that of 15 completed proceedings against the former Mayor of Maribor, Mr Frantz Kangler. As far as I know, and as we Members of the 2015 Committee, you are likely to have more than 20 violations against Mr Kangler. Remember, already, one of the biggest procedures, on 4 May 2011, when the first investigation began, when more than 117 criminals came to the home of Frank Kangler, where he was seized, a well-known media story, even a birdhouse where he had a security camera for his area. He just got it back. As Minister, I ask you: How do you feel, too, that in all these 15 proceedings that have already been concluded against Franc Kangler, have you, perhaps, detected violations of a whole range of people in the justice system, by judges and prosecutors? Last but not least, I see the Minister of the Interior next to you, but of course, the question is only for the Minister today. Let me also remind you that you have probably received a public record that on 7 July 2014, Dr. Boštjan Pozdek on the application for prison sentence to stay said the following words against France Kangler: “It is already that Kangler is working on the farm, but it poses a serious danger to return to political life, so he must go to prison.” That was made public by Dr. Boštian Pozek. Let me remind you that most of the hearings were signed by Janez Žirovnik, I hope you heard, most of the hearings against Franc Kangler were signed by Janez Žirovnik, a former official of the State Security Service, but I do not understand how he could have become a judge at the District Court in Maribor. We find in the archive material that he also participated in the failed assassination of Nikola Štedul in 1988 — I have already reminded you of that — and this man signed most of the earrings. This was also discussed by Mr Bošnjak, who is now a judge at the ECHR. That's why I'm asking you: How is it even possible that Odrek and Žirovnik should still be judged in Maribor with such statements? Is there any internal investigation or disciplinary action against these two judges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In fact, I think your question was more of a comment than a question. I don't know if 15 proceedings have been completed or if 5 or 20 have been completed, indeed, we don't exactly follow up with this at the Ministry of Justice. Indeed, we have received a great deal of writing from the 2014 Committee and the 2015 Committee. It is true that a number of procedures have already been completed and some are still in progress. You'll understand that either we judge individual or specific decisions of judges or we don't go to court. If you take my word for it right away and draw the parallels with my statement in the case of Bavcar, I'll tell you it's not the same thing. In fact, the timeliness of the proceedings is one of the few areas where the executive and the Ministry of Justice have leverage on the one hand and on the other hand also responsibility. There was a question of obsolescence. The system, however, needs to be trusted in it and obviously also works if, through the enforcement of legal remedies, people also get legal and exculpatory rulings. I don't know any of these judges personally or in a friendly way. However, I think it is difficult for a Member to say in the National Assembly that a judge was involved in, if I correctly wrote, that he was involved in a failed assassination. This is a serious accusation for a Member in relation to a Judge. I don't think he's a judge in the Republic of Slovenia, I don't think he is, I'm sure he's not, he wouldn't have had at least one judgment annulled, or he's usually more, because it's at the heart of an instant trial. If you ask me whether any of these judges have been brought into court or disciplinary proceedings, you know, Mr Breznik, we do not run disciplinary proceedings against judges at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, are you requesting a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u162	I'll repeat it with clear words. I can deliver archival material from the archive of the Republic of Slovenia about the assassination of Nikola Štedul in Scotland in 1988, in which case there was a case of a failure of the assassination attempt to get on the side track in order to avoid the international being able to say, it was a complete failure of the assassination, but of course they tried to hide it under the carpet. [[…]] Two Maribor lawyers were involved in this work, which are still lawyers, both Mr Zoran Toplak and the said judge. But I'm asking you: Do you think everything's all right? Mr. Kangler was deprived of his mandate because of this judgment, as you know, as a state councillor, he was given a sentence of seven months, which was unusual. It was an irreparable consequence for Mr Kangler. We cannot put this holy city back. The second point is: Do you think everything is okay – in this mandate we have seen – Željko Bejek, the judgment against Popov when the Chief Prosecutor literally annuls the judgment; do you think these cases are all right? I'm asking you as Minister: Are you going to keep saying that everything is okay with the Slovenian justice system? When it comes to Mr. Bavčar, you said it yourself. I didn't say it. I am interested in all the other outstanding actions, such as money laundering in the NLB, such stories about the exemption of many cases, from the Balkan Warrior project, from drugs in Slovenia, from money laundering, because they have state security everywhere and everywhere there is the impression of a transition left. I'm asking you: Are you going to do something like the Minister of Justice or not? That's my very simple question.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you. You can also answer this question, given that you are a Member of the National Assembly. It's me, or not you personally, but I've been criticized several times, you're talking about the legislative tsunami, we're bringing changes to this Parliament, we want to do a lot. I have never singled out and, without reservation, only praised the Slovenian judiciary. Far from that, I have repeatedly said that things are not optimal, but that trends are positive. Yeah, we're working on getting better. But I'm not going to comment on individual cases. I just don't know a lot of what you've told me. Even less, with all due respect, I can't comment on anything when you say he was in the SDV, he was in the SDV. I've never had anything to do with it, and I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Beznik, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u166	I started with Mr. Kangler, it was a fixed question, you didn't answer me. As you know, there is also a financial investigation against him, where it is again like you said when you were on KPK. They're leading a financial investigation against someone and they're documenting the ownership of a 37-year-old tractor and the fact that in 2010 he spent 500 euros on his daughter. This is a man who still had quite a lot of income for Slovenia. They're doing a financial investigation in this area. These are new procedures in this Slovenia. On the other hand, today I look at the owners of all Slovenian yachts in the Reporter. Among other things, a number of former ministers, including the former Minister of Health and so on. And I'm asking you, does everything seem normal to you? But it seems normal to you that Popov was, I ask you as a war veteran, convicted in Croatia for war crimes only when he drove from the war in Varaždin to the Slovenian border, and from the Slovenian border he killed several people, damaged many objects, sacral buildings, abused vehicles of the Red Cross to carry combat ammunition into the very war event in Radgona. And Mr. Senior State Prosecutor Zarko Bejek and Judge Palatine forgive this man literally and leave Slovenia. And today he even got paid compensation. I'm asking you as Minister of Justice. Is this the justice you're defending? Don't you defend him? Today, from the Minister, all the questions, including from my colleagues and colleagues, who have been primarily involved in the work of the judiciary, which has been catastrophic in recent times, where it is literally a network, are a para-state mafia state, where justice can be said to work in the wake of money laundering, in the forgiveness of many criminals who are all connected with the former SDV. Especially the last interview with Dr. Pesdir on TV. This is an example of how this country works. We literally have a parallel economy, parallel banking and a parallel judicial system of this country. Some, for example, Mr Kangler gets everything, literally excluded from politics, eliminated in a number of procedures, discredited in public; everyone else walks, sunbathing on their yachts and so on. This is your responsibility, and therefore, Mr Vice-President, I propose a public debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished minister, colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! As I was looking back, how many times have we had a very similar debate with the Minister on the situation, on development, and especially on the financing of local self-government, I borrowed my question from 19. 2. 2013 when I asked you, Madam Minister, whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through financial and organisational changes, was trying to continue the policy of the previous government in the tendency to abolish or unite municipalities. I also asked you how to take local communities. And on the other hand, do you intend to improve the level of local self-government, especially its funding. In the meantime, one budget meeting took place, and the other, the third, because we have always dealt with the issue of averages just before the beginning. The government has adopted a Strategy for the Development of Local Self-Government, where it has given us Members too little attention to participate actively in this strategy in the National Assembly. Although you have passed the Act on measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities, which, according to me, did not achieve what you expected. On the other hand, there are quite a few acts awaiting adoption. At this meeting, we will also consider the first reading of the capital law, where the Ljubljanaers are raising funds, and it is likely that the Law on the Financing of Municipalities will arrive at the September session, where many mayors now warn that, in addition to the already under-average with certain concrete changes that this law brings, the fact that the financial effects for the municipalities will be even worse; if we know that there have been some other negative cases here, as well as in terms of rationalisation: Let it cost as much as it wants. However, if we know that the law on local self-government is also coming into consideration and that we also have a decision on the Constitutional Court. Dear Minister, there are a few things that are open. I want to know: What do you think the current state of the municipalities in Slovenia is? Are there already arrangements or arrangements for the implementation of the 2018 average that would be comparable? In order not only to survive, but also to have some investment cycles and plans for citizens to live even better lives than they are currently living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u169	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you for your words and thank you, honourable Member, for this question. As this has been announced in a very general way, I will now be able to respond a little more specifically. I never spoke of the abolition of the congregations, even very clearly of my view that the congregations are as they are; those who have been accepted by the National Assembly; and we will not interfere. With regard to the strategy adopted by the Government, we have also explained. The strategy adopted by the Government is a government strategy; those which are prescribed by law to be adopted by the National Assembly are adopted by the National Assembly. It's a well-established practice. With regard to the Law on the Public City, there will be plenty of opportunities to talk about it when it actually comes before the Members. It's just borderline regulation. The capital law must carry out those tasks which it performs as the capital because it has specific tasks. The Law on Community Financing has also begun the parliamentary path, but there will be plenty of time to discuss this; however, there is something about the current situation. The average in 2015 was 522, 2016 as well, 2017 – 533, 536 was announced for 2018. The negotiations will begin in September, and we expect them to be the starting points for further negotiations. It is said that the average is growing steadily. As for the situation in the congregations you ask me about. For the first time since the crisis, in 2015 all municipalities had budget surpluses of €29 million. In total, there was a deficit of 172 million in the congregations. We are pleased to note that even in 2016, the municipalities showed almost 50 million budget surpluses, debt steadily falling, currently falling by 4%. The number of congregations in debt is also steadily decreasing. In the light of the Court of Auditors' decisions and the repeal of the Constitutional Court, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance have already drawn up a clear list of the tasks they set and which form the basis for calculating the average. The Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which we have prepared, also places greater weights on the part of calculating the average at which municipalities actually have the highest costs, namely preschool children and the elderly. These are also essential changes to this law, and the bill also strengthens municipal integration, not integration, but the integration of those tasks that many smaller municipalities can more effectively carry out together. We also define more clearly the role of municipal associations in the negotiations on averages precisely to ensure that these negotiations are conducted transparently, on clear grounds and that the funds available to the municipalities are also fairly distributed. I estimate that the situation in the municipalities is not getting worse, of course it is not ideal, but that the municipalities, like other consumers of public finances, must face some of the frameworks in which all consumers of public funds must be placed. However, I am pleased to note that the revenue of the municipalities is growing, and we can also argue that the standard of citizens provided by the municipalities in this way can only be improved. Projections for the coming years are positive and we expect that these trends will only increase in future debt increases and reductions. The laws also promote the rationalisation of the functioning of municipalities, which do not limit, but, on the contrary, increase the scope and accessibility of the services offered by the municipalities to their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u171	Mr Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Otherwise, you mentioned how the average in your mandate was increasing, but you did not tell the first thing that the average in 2014 was €536 and will therefore be the same average in 2018. Or did you say you were going to talk about number 536? This is the opinion of the Ministry of Public Administration and also probably the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, the municipalities want at least 630 in the applicable law, and I think it is even €636. In short, a great prude. And if we know that since 2014, when the average amount of EUR 536 and that it is likely to be the same amount in 2018, at least those working on local self-government have been informed and also forced to adopt various municipal decisions where the local communities of the country, that is, this government, in order not to err, sets out new and new tasks or obligations. And when we look at the draft law on the financing of municipalities, which we will talk more about, the fact is that, in fact, this government, in a softer way than your predecessor wanted to do, pushes the congregations to connect them slowly in a financial and organizational sense; in the end, they will say the de facto of the congregation and the mayors: We are no longer going to do this! The country, you're giving us new assignments, take control of local self-government. So I would really like you to answer the question: To what limit are you ready to go on average for 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u173	Minister Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you. Dear Member, you will probably understand that this is a matter of negotiation with the municipal associations, which will be the average for 2018. We are probably not going to make a public statement in Parliament before we begin negotiations that are the subject of annual negotiations, coordination and arguments. As regards the amounts of the increase in the average, it should be known that the average is calculated on the basis of revenue with a two-year delay. It should also be known that, at the time the state budget actually fell by 10%, its consumption increased by more than 11%. But it's because of these two-year delays and delays. But also now the average is growing steadily and I expect it to continue to grow. On the other hand, as far as hints are concerned, how in some ways do we want to subtly evaluate local self-government, and I categorically reject that. Firstly, this is constitutional matter and the autonomy of local self-government is defined as one of the fundamental autonomys in our constitution; the executive branch of the government has no opportunity to interfere. Second, when we talk about the integration of municipalities and the integration of those tasks that municipalities can combine, all of this integration and association are based on the voluntary decision of the individual congregation. We are strongly encouraging this. In this way, we will also take concrete steps forward in that direction so that we can also functionally identify the functionalities of the tasks that the congregations want and can successfully connect them. In this way, it will also be clearer in a certain regional or regional principle, which are the tasks to finally establish the regionalisation that we are obliged to establish under the Constitution. We are trying to work absolutely for the benefit and strengthening of local self-government. Every other hint we listen to here or every other goal is absolutely unacceptable to us. We're only working this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u175	Mr Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a supplement or to propose a procedural one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u176	Of course, I would like to see a general and thorough debate held at the meeting of the National Assembly on the area of local self-government, in particular on this financial aspect. More arguments, I will start with one – on the integration of tasks. I know an example that perhaps in the future, even through social networks, I have already talked you into how public sector integration is going. So that for an assignment where the lady from Sevenice vehicle to Sevenice is to be employed, this will, as it were said, be yours to combine tasks and duties, this lady will have to be with 1. 1. 2018 drive to Brežice. That's it. Joining and costing as much as he wants. However, if we know that, for example, the only wage rise in the public sector was higher than the average increase for municipalities. And if, on the other hand, we know that congregations like fish on dry land are waiting for different invitations, then here and there the ministry will have mercy on them with a million or two. For example, sports infrastructure, where all municipalities in Slovenia have been treated with up to 2.7 million, we have a problem. We have an even bigger problem, the mayors point out that by bringing about a new law on the financing of municipalities, under some cover of integration, the municipalities will continue to be more dependent on the good will of every single minister, on every single government. Let me finish. An example of average is a typical example of how the government, every time a government, not just you, a respected minister, unilaterally settles the issue of averages. The municipalities say 636, the state says 535 and then they get, for example, €539 and the government declares it in terms of how good we are to the congregations. In practice, we all know, at least those who come and work in local self-government, that it is only a gradual abolition of some good municipalities, that they will survive only municipalities such as Ljubljana and some major municipalities. All small municipalities that have seceded from major municipalities in a desire for better, easier and faster development will be deprived of the funds they should be subject to existing legislation because of these indicators, which they are making up and they are being thrown there by officials at the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry is in breach of its own legislation in the field of local self-government, because if it were respected, the average would be at least €630 and not €100 less. What does this mean for local communities, but just ask the heads of financial sectors in these municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u177	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Mr. Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the ministers and ministers and to the others present! Slovenia, thank God, has recently been doing very well in the field of tourism, which is visible and felt; and I hope that this will continue. But there are certain anomalies. And one of these is legislation in the field of public order and peace. If I am specific, Article 8 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace 1 (ZJRM-1) describes that noise is limited between 22 a.m. and 6 a.m. We know that some are for most of tourism to be a more sleepy village, but the trends in tourism are unfortunately different. We also have already defined tourist destinations where it is known to be more lively than otherwise, because otherwise people would probably live elsewhere, not in tourist destinations. As tourist work is also a seasonal work, during the summers it is increasingly open and louder and noisy. Above all, there is disagreement in the coast, which is extremely prone to it, as well as in other tourist areas, the imbalances between non-residents are for this purpose. I was turned to most tourist workers, innkeepers and those who are for this promotion and life from tourism. I would like to refer to you, Minister, the proposal: Would it make sense to complete article 8 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace in order to bring about a late night’s peace, not at 10 p.m., but at 24 p.m.? I'm putting this in some way. It's only about tourist areas. This is not to be spread across certain sleeping areas and other places; even in precisely the time-limited parts of the year, it is clear that this is not average and cross-border. I would like to ask you at this point for your opinion on this proposal and, in the case of support, also for the preparation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u179	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u180	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, especially Ambassador Ferruga, Member of the Coast! I will not say that your question is expected, but it shows that you have a very active role or that you are very active in the local environment. From the point of view or from the point of view of internal affairs, I will try to give you a comprehensive and balanced answer. Of course, all your initiatives are also taken into account if you consider that this answer does not fully satisfy you. As you may mention, Article 8 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace protects the peace and rest of citizens between 22:00 and 6 p.m. We know what a violation is – that someone is in an improper way disrupting the peace or rest of people with noise and is not an emergency, intervention-maintainment measure. Infringement is not in the event of urgent maintenance work or when noise is caused by permitted activity. As you have already indirectly observed, regional guest legislation allows for the establishment of extended working hours of catering establishments, while the criteria can be further defined by municipal decrees, and there is still room for manoeuvre. However, I must say that night peace and rest are a category that is legally protected, and the fact that someone lives in a tourist area in itself in some way affects the poorer quality of life in terms of objective parameters, so I cannot agree with your proposal that residents of tourist areas generally limit the right to night rest. The police are already accepting citizens' reports of violations of public order and peace, then of non-compliance with the decision on extended operating time or of opposition to the issue of an authorisation for an event in accordance with legislation. Experience from abroad should also be taken into account, where local communities in tourist areas also accept different restrictions on tourists who are specifically designed to protect local people and their quality of life. I believe that the current regulation of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace – taking into account and applying all other regulations relating to this area, this is the Law on Public Collections, the Custody Act, the Law on the Protection of the Environment – is appropriate, since it actually allows for the individual treatment and urgent weighing of the interests of local people on the one hand and on the other, as regards the requirements of tourism activities, ensuring the protection of individuals, their health, well-being and the general impact on the environment. But we have taken your initiative to learn, of course we will also study it. But as for the Ministry's opinion, my opinion is as I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u181	Dr. Ange Logar will ask the Minister of Finance of the Magi a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you, Chairman. Whenever state property management is on the agenda, there are conflicting opinions and views, although this is one of the key issues of the future development of the Republic of Slovenia. If I am merely ordinarily, this topic is often a difficult subject for some parties. Remember, before the last elections in 2014, the government of Alenka Bratušek had frozen the list for the purposes of the pre-election competition for the sale of state property, which it had previously adopted. Now it seems like we have a similar story in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank. Minister Vraničarova and her team joined the European Commission in convincing the European Commission that she had partially given up on commitments and that we did not have to sell 75% of the bank this year; but only 50. And yet she swallowed the word to the European Commission. It's like the 2014 pre-election story is repeating itself. A memorandum setting out State aid, dated 17. 12. In 2013, he predicted that if the Republic of Slovenia did not sell this bank by the end of the year, the external seller would sell off the shares or branches in the markets of the Western Balkans. The President of the Supervisory Board, Mr Karpe, said at one of the meetings of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission that this would essentially mean the end of a regional bank and that this would be the worst blow to the New Ljubljana Bank. Despite the risk of this happening, the government decided to stop the sale of this bank under more favourable conditions, i.e. when selling less; and cited three reasons: low price, alleged money laundering and concern for taxpayers, the issue of the outstanding deposits of Croatian savers. My question to the Minister is to explain these three reasons a little bit and to each of them a little bit more detail how much work this has affected the decision not to sell. And an additional question: Therefore, if it remains as it is, non-sales, does this mean that the state no longer guarantees the outstanding roles of Croatian savers; given that this is one of the reasons for non-sales? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u183	Dear Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for the floor and thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question. The Government is a collective body and as a collective body has also taken a decision regarding the sale or sale process of the New Ljubljana Bank. As you mentioned, there were three reasons why they intertwine. The story of money laundering, although in fact old, caught on at a time when the sale process was to be concluded; and it asked many open questions, to which there was no answer. It sparked a variety of speculations that could have a negative impact on the price that could be achieved in the first public offering of shares. Similarly, the issue of transferred roles of Croatian savers was in fact very unclear in the materials of the sales consultant. His views on the extent to which such expenditure or risks could affect prices that could be expected from different investors have changed over time. And in the last period just prior to the last decision of the Government, the sales consultant assessed that this issue could lead to a significant reduction in the expected purchases. As a result, I repeat, as a collective body, that the proposed price range, which would provide, together with the dividends already received and the dividends expected over the next five years and the value of the assets remaining in the ownership of the State, was more than the last State aid granted to NLB; in this context, the Government has assessed that the proposed price framework is not appropriate. At the time the decision was taken, there was an open whole type of uncertainty which has a significant impact or could affect prices offered within this price range and would be too risky to continue the procedure. The second part of your question concerns the transferred roles of Croatian savers and the guarantee. The government has never given a guarantee, nor have I taken up the guarantee in the sense that guarantees are usually offered when you sell state property to a known buyer or a strategic partner in the sales process. The government spoke about the possibility of a different payment of obligations arising from legally binding, enforceable decisions of Croatian courts. Since the beginning of this problem, however, the Slovenian government has insisted on this – and we insist on this – issue of success, succession and that this issue must be resolved at the interstate level within the framework of the instruments that we know to resolve hereditary issues. The government's decisions in this regard, adopted in May and June of this year, do not in any way alter these starting points with regard to the treatment of transferred deposits of Croatian savers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u185	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you. Only then did the secretary not answer me, given what she finally said. 6.13 is a provision of the sale contract of the New Bank of Ljubljana of the NCBs, where the State excludes any obligation of a foreign partner in the event of the necessity of payment of these transferred applications. I think that this is relatively generally likely also to Croatia. So my question was: Does any change in the taxpayer's view if it remains the way it is, so that the bank is not sold; or if the bank is sold, as requested by the European Commission, and the State assumes this guarantee? Does this change for Slovenia? In view of the statement made by the President of the Supervisory Board earlier, and in view of the statement made by the Minister, who said that her key objective was in the future, that NLB should be maintained as a strong regional banking group with subsidiaries in South-Eastern Europe. In line with the European Commission's decision, this is impossible. That is why I am asking because one discharge from the European Commission has already been received, whether it can claim here that it will receive new discharges and that the worst scenario that the Minister herself fears will not happen. In particular, I quote again: "All the interlocutors have expressed an understanding that this is an example which has very specific circumstances to take into account in this case." So a statement based on a discussion with the representatives of the European Commission that you have been taken into account if you say that these are circumstances to be taken into account in this case. Do you have a promise not to make a black screenplay?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u187	Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I'll start at the back. Talks with the European Commission are ongoing. The talks are constructive, but we are still at a stage where different scenarios or different variants are being developed, alternative solutions in view of the basic commitment currently in force in the European Commission's decision on the granting of State aid. Yes, discussions with the European Commission are taking place, on individual options or on options at this time, because we are still in the process too early. However, I hope that in the early autumn we will have a clearer picture to which we can negotiate or agree with the European Commission. As far as NLB's sales are concerned and the impact of transferred deposits. Once again, the sale of KBC was made before it was ratified and the so-called successor agreement was applied in Slovenia. This one was ratified later. In addition, in the case of a contract with the NCBs, the contract was concluded with a known buyer and such a form of guarantee in the case of the method of sale that we defended this year, the so-called IPO procedure or the procedure for the first public sale of shares, is not taken into account. In particular, from the point of view of taxpayers and the links to the problem of transferred deposits, the situation has not essentially changed in any way. The government wanted to prevent taxpayers from settling their obligations twice or being responsible for the obligations imposed on them — for the first time, through the lower purchases made and, secondly, because NLB could have a regressive claim to the State in the event of a possible payment of a legal enforceable decision by the Croatian authorities. However, it is still our basic argument that Slovenia is not responsible for these obligations. We insist on this and build an entire case on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u189	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you, Chairman. And that's not gonna hold what the minister said in the end. If Nova Ljubljanska banka has a regression claim to the Republic of Slovenia, this means that the Republic of Slovenia has made a guarantee for such obligations. However, if it has made a guarantee, it does not mean that it affects the lower price; it does affect the higher price. Therefore, this guarantee relieves the new buyer of the obligation for such costs and would therefore be willing to pay a higher price, not lower, not as the minister wanted to present here. However, as regards the conditions themselves, given what the Minister has said, there is clearly no real possibility of deciding on the date of sale; especially since this part of the European Commission's decision falls within two areas, namely, the competitiveness area where the conditions of this State aid are being implemented and the common market covered by Commissioner Dombrovskis and talks about the date by which this matter should be sold. According to my information, the latter is not to count on any great success in order to postpone the date of sale; however, there are possibilities for modalities concerning restrictive measures. Because we do not know what will happen to this bank by the end of the year, but if this does not happen, but they will start implementing that decision by the European Commission next year, I propose that we hold a detailed debate on this at a meeting of the National Assembly where the Minister of Finance will be able to present in detail the government's strategy; we can also at a closed meeting, so that at least the Members and later the Slovenian public will be confronted with what is going on with the millions we have invested in the largest state bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u191	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The construction of the Belarusian part of the third development axis is increasingly slowing down, as we know. According to the information I received, it is so late that all the required documentation would not be prepared until 2022; it is only that the entire southern leg of the third development axis would actually be built by 2023, as you promised for some time. In addition, there are increasing questions regarding the State Spatial Road Plan Regulation from the A2 Ljubljana–Brežje de Nova mesto to the Malina connection, which was adopted at the end of 2012. The preparation and adoption of this Regulation is opposed to the signing and adoption of the Novo mesto company with the signatures of 70 countries of the local community Ločna-Máčkovec 16. 9. 2013 submitted a complaint to the European Commission. From information on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Space 16. 12. 2016 it is clear that the European Commission issued an official reminder for the infringement; the deadline for Slovenia's response has already expired on 9 February 2017. In this regard, I am interested in: What stage is the procedure before the European Commission? Is it already stated or can we expect the request of the European Commission to repeal the contested regulation? As a result of the Company’s complaint Novi mesto to the European Commission and Slovenia’s official notices, procedures have been halted and the construction of the first and second stages of the construction of a fast road from joining the motorway to joining the Osredek? Have we lost funding from the European Union Cohesion Fund of around €39 million? Do you not think that it would be better to start construction at stage three and stage four of the works until the Malina connection, which should be accelerated by the preparatory work, since there is no dispute on this part of the road? And what happens to the tunnel under the Gorjans? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u193	Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Members of Mrs Violeti Tomić, for the question raised. And a good greeting to all the other Members and Members! The part of the question relating to the validity of the State Spatial Road Plan Regulation from the A2 Ljubljana–Brežje do New Town until the accession of Malina falls within the scope of the Ministry of Environment and Space covering this spatial interference, so that the said Regulation, which entered into force on 5 January 2013, falls within their competence; therefore, it may be reasonable to refer this question to the Minister, who runs this department, in relation to this procedure at the European Commission. Otherwise, I can say that the procedure before the European Commission does not have a formal impact on the validity of this Regulation, so that this Regulation still applies until the procedure has been completed in any way. All activities relating to the implementation of this project shall also be carried out under this Regulation. The European funds allocated to this project, too, are still available for this project. You also mentioned that you have been informed that there are major delays or delays in this project. I have to say, that's not true. We recently had several meetings with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and last Friday with representatives of the mayors of all three Belarusian municipalities, namely Črnomelj, Metlik and Semič, where we discussed the implementation of this project. All these meetings have made it clear that they are now intensive in the implementation of the preparatory work. These preparatory works take place at this first stage, or the first phase, which runs from the highway to the connection of the Osredek, which is in Revoz, approximately 5 kilometers long. European funds are also allocated for this part, and activities are being carried out intensively in the production of project documentation and further land production. These activities are to be completed by the end of 2018 or carried out by Dars, so that they will be completed according to their plans by the end of 2018 when the building permit is also planned. And immediately after it starts building this section, I'm talking about this first five kilometers piece, so the construction would start in 2019. I think the conclusion is already possible in 2022, maybe no later than 2023. In the second part, which continues from this connection Osredek to including the tunnel under Gorjanci until the connection of Malina, the activities in line with this section continue here, with approximately a one-year delay. It is planned that projects and land will be acquired here by the end of 2019 and that construction will then take place in 2020. If all of this is then successfully realized, it is expected that this section with tunnel up to and including Malina connection will be built in 2024. All of this was explained and agreed with the mayors. We have agreed that we will also conclude a similar protocol with these municipalities on the implementation of these activities, as was recently concluded for the northern part of the third development axis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u195	Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Minister, I don't know how to believe you. You say you don't hold, there's a delay, and you've had a conversation with all three mayors. You won't believe it. It was these three mayors who asked me nicely to ask you this particular question. And what does it mean that preparatory work is being intensively carried out? As you know, we have talked about this subject several times and you promised me that the construction of the section from the lower highway to the new town's Revoz, which is 5 kilometers away, will begin by 2020 at the latest. I guess that's not gonna happen. Moreover, on 2 February 2015 you assured me at the meeting before the witnesses that the tunnel under Gorjanci will start to dig in October 2016. And you say there's no delay! You told me that in front of the witnesses, and then you waited for Dars. And I want to know: When are these machines really going to fail? When, in particular? When will this construction begin? When will all bureaucratic problems be resolved? And most of all, I want to know: What are they doing on the Vachta robes that are doing? Did we get that instead of the tunnel? For these slaves narrow down the road, where they should have one lane, or a belt, which is foreshortened. And it happens that we have traffic lights, we stand, no one works for three months, people wonder who does it, who does it, who does it, who does it, what does it do, what does it do? In short, it's a bunch of questions. And the Belokrans, believe me, have a suitcase full of it. We are a region that pays more in the budget than it gets back. And I tell you, there are already initiatives to set up a prison in the Goryans, to give up the welcome to the government when it comes to happy promises, and to establish an independent free territory. We already have a passport. Just so you know where it's going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u197	Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I have to answer, but there have been certain indications that I am deceiving to make some promises that I do not then keep. As you yourself said, I may have been a little overly optimistic about this first section today. You said that I myself indicated that the works in the first section would start in 2020 from the highway to the center, 5 kilometers. I said today that they may already start in 2019, no later than 2020. For the second section, I don't know, maybe we used to joke about where we talked; I don't remember that in 2016 I would have ensured that construction works would start in the tunnel. There were humorous activities, I understand where the Belokrans were wickedly starting construction. I support such a witty approach, but here we take matters very seriously and take activities to realize this necessary section, which will connect the White Krajina to the highway network, we take very seriously. That is why we have also transferred this section in this mandate from the powers of the Directorate to Dars; otherwise we would probably still be just talking about realisation, and now things are going on. Dars will, as it is said, acquire projects and land for this project by the end of 2019 so that one year after the first section could also work on this work. If everything was going to go well, this work would end in 2024. What about the robes on the Vahta? We've talked about this before, too. I've been wondering what's going on. The existing road is regulated, mainly by drainage. These are measures to improve the existing road. With regard to enlargement itself with the three belts, you probably now agree that such enlargements are not very meaningful if we are planning to direct all forces to the construction of the third development axis, including the tunnel under the Gorjanci. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u199	Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u200	The Minister actually insulted me because he said that this was a funny approach and that you do not remember that we talked about October 2016, but there are records of this meeting, a respected minister. Our pierar also requested confirmation of your claim and received it. Regarding the highways on the Vahta, I must tell you that you do not know why three months in the middle of the season should be closed on an already impenetrable road with a traffic light and do so right in the middle of the summer season, when we know that tourists who would like to finally come to the Croatian highway cross that is built across these unfortunate Gorjans. Now that we're getting these robes here, it gives us a thought and lets us know that maybe there won't be a tunnel. If they had given the passport, they might have waited until 2020, but I think in this way, with this drainage, the Belokrans will not be very happy and simply do not trust these promises anymore. I think we should really discuss this at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u201	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Foreign Minister a question, Mr Karl Erjavac, who is excused to be absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask Mr Erjavac a question about the implementation of the arbitration agreement. The arbitration agreement is based on the two parties implementing this Agreement. A number of questions are being asked here, as Croatia said it would not implement this agreement. The arbitration agreement shall have an expiry date of 6 months. I want to know: What will Minister Erjavec and the government do to implement this agreement? This is not about bilateral discussions in the sense that nothing is specified. Everything is specified, the agreement must only be implemented. And it can happen if Slovenia does not do so, Croatia will say after six months – see, because you did not do it. That's why I want to know: How will Slovenia implement this? Even if, for example, the Prime Minister of Croatia says he will not discuss an arbitration agreement on Wednesday. And the arbitration agreement still applies to people, to schools where children will go to schools in certain areas where the school or health home is allocated to Croatia; and vice versa, when awarded to Slovenia. That's what I'm interested in: What will be done by 1 / 1 1. 2018, because the six-month deadline will then expire? What will the government do here? The government needs a strategy, the government needs good diplomacy, it probably needs forces that can do that. I want to know: How is this government actually ready to implement itself? The reports we receive from the media, I'm sorry, unfortunately don't give us any certainty that this is actually going to happen. Once again, the arbitration agreement sets a limit, two parties have to implement it. One side has already stepped down. What will Slovenia do? What's the strategy? Is she going to implement it? Will this agreement be implemented within six months, imposing an arbitration agreement? I'm sorry the Minister isn't here today. I hope that he will respond orally to this question, this is the September session. And I hope that he will have everything on his hands and that people can actually be satisfied with this implementation of the arbitration agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u203	If I understand correctly, you want the Minister to answer you orally at the next meeting. We continue with Mr Jernej Vrtovac's question, which is intended for the Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go, Mr. Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, it's a good day, even though these days you've been going through a very difficult time, given all the obvious! Many of these perceptions, even in my humble opinion, are completely justified, because health care in this country is a really big problem, a big problem, we can say that it is very systemic. From the big words, what needs to be done, what we will do, we too expected something to change for the better, only words remain, and at the end of the memory of those words. In the end, the memory fades, and health care is still in trouble. In particular, public health institutions are in difficulty, both organisational and financial. This issue is particularly reflected in the recruitment of these public health institutions. Madam Minister, my brief question, because of transparency, is about reporting to the media that the director of the second largest healthcare institution in the country has obtained an agreement to work with the concessionaire – a private health institution implementing the same programme as the institution where he became director. Nothing wrong. I'm interested in your opinion on this: On what basis could such consent have been given to this Director in this regard? Minister, thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u205	Dear Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u206	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Member Jernej Vrtovec! Since you started the introduction on public institutions, on problems, on lack of personnel and financial problems; that these problems are due to decisions in the past that have resulted in total liquidity problems, shortages, losses and more today. Now for the answer to a specific question. Allow me first, it's probably a lapsus, however; that private concessionaires are private companies that have been awarded concessions, part of a public network. And they have to operate according to the rules of the public network because they get a paid programme from public funds. With regard to the specific response, as you probably know, in accordance with Article 53b, paragraph 1, of the Health Act, the Council of the Institution in which the health worker is employed shall give its consent to work outside the home institution; and not to the Ministry of Health. That's the way it is in this case. In accordance with the rules, the Council of the University Clinical Centre gave the consent of Prof. Dr. Vojko Flis, Director-General of UKC Maribor, that for a period of one year in the surgical sanatorium the Pink Valley may carry out interventions up to a maximum of 4 hours per week which, while in UKC Maribor, are unable to do. Why not? Because they do not have enough anaesthesiologists and because they have increased the number of blood vessels by 20%, thus contributing to an unacceptable long waiting period in patients with splenic veins being reduced to a reasonable limit. Because of this, surgeons have been operating in other hospitals, not only in the concessionary surgical sanatorium, but also in the General Hospital Murska Sobota, for several years. And these are the reasons why these waiting periods fell under one year. This is also the reason why the Council of the Institute of Prof. Dr. Vojko Flis has approved the already mentioned agreement for work, as I said, for a maximum of 4 hours; all in the context of reducing the length of waiting periods for such operations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u207	We continue with the question posed by Mr Jana Mahnič, which is intended for the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! This is a map of Slovenia, marking all works on the road currently under way. Works on the road, which takes place at the peak of the tourist season. Then you go to the AMZS website, to the subsite Status on Slovenian roads and border crossings. The list of parts is extensive and I will focus only on the works taking place on Slovenian motorways; these are currently 17: Ljubljana, Eastern bypass; Ljubljana–Maribor, during the connection of Domžale and the connection of Krtina; then Ljubljana–Maribor, during the connection of Slovenia Bistrica north and the resting place of Poland; then Maribor–Schentilj; again Maribor–Ljubljana between the connection of Maribor south and Slivnica and Fram; forward Ljubljana–Maribor between the toll station Vransko and the connection of Šentrupert; Unec–Postodna; then Ravbarkomanda–Unec; then Ljubljana–The coast between the connection of Beach and Trebnja; of course the opposite direction; Ljubljana–Karavanka between the connection of Kranj west and the connection of Naklo; then Obrežje – Ljubljana to the exports of Škofljica, Kočevje in the direction of the connection of the direction of the river between the river and the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of Split; and the town of the town of the town of the town of the town of Lek. My parliamentary question concerns works on Slovenian roads, on Slovenian state roads in the peak of the tourist season, as this needlessly causes congestion, to drivers of shorter nerves and thus potentially endangers all participants in traffic. Mr. Minister, according to what we read and according to what we see, I'm interested in: Why should work on Slovenian state roads, I specifically numbered motorways, perform at the top of the summer season? Tell me, did it really go any different than going to the most busy part of the highway in the tourist season, this is a coastal highway, part between Unec and Ravbarkomando, to work in July and August? Are you making a fool out of Slovenian citizens? Is this how you want to deter foreigners from going to the sea and on to Croatia; or what? I can't imagine. Why do these works have to take place at a time when Slovenian roads are most burdened by tourists and also by Slovenes and Slovenes who go on vacations? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u209	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Member Jean Mahnič, for the question raised. I don't think anyone is happy when they run into reconstruction work, but reconstruction is necessarily evil if we want to keep the road network in good condition. We ourselves know that in the past, due to the lack of funds for these renovations, there was not enough of them; therefore, as we have intensified investment in road infrastructure, there may have been more of them than many of us would have wanted. As a matter of fact, this is necessarily evil. However, care must be taken to ensure that this work is carried out in such a way that traffic is at least mixed. Therefore, operators must carry out these works in the context of ensuring the safety and transport of the road network, which is their legal obligation. And most of these parts can only be performed in warmer months, in good weather, in the daytime, so the stagnation in the tourist season after most cannot be avoided. One of the important reasons for the reconstruction of roads at this time is undoubtedly weather conditions. In the summertime, the weather is much more favourable for road renewal; in the winter, it is not even possible to carry out the works that are being carried out. Certain works may also be carried out during the night when the traffic loads are lower. However, in the case of night work it is necessary to pay particular attention to quality assurance, to the implementation of logistics. Labour legislation is also an important factor. Despite all of this, more and more work is being done at night at the most burdened sections. This, however, requires a number of additional measures to prevent any collisions of vehicles. In order to enable night work at all, the site must first and foremost be very well lit. Only less noisy work can be done because the level of legal noise is lower during the night than in the daytime. Dars is carefully planning, because of all that has been said, during which period of the year individual reconstruction works are carried out, but it is not possible to completely avoid the renewal and intervention of motorways and fast roads as the main transit tourist corridors during the tourist season. Larger works carried out after three or even five or six months may not be performed only in this available time outside the summer tourist season, so Dars will always provide two narrow lanes in each direction in case of such larger and longer-lasting restoration works on the motorways, so that the impact on the reduction of the flow at a given section is minimised. That's the way it is at the Ravbarcomand section. The timeframe for the annual renewal of the main and regional road network is also due to the fact that traffic on this network is generally lower during the summer period, as these roads are outside the main tourist corridors. We also do not have school transport at this time, and annual vacations also reduce the intensity of transport to work, so that the costs of users due to possible congestion in the implementation of parts are lower; and in particular, the implementation of construction works itself, as stated, can be shorter and more effective due to better weather conditions. Exceptions are, of course, works in the Slovenian coast area, and traffic increases on these roads during the summer period; at the same time, the conditions on the coast are such that work can also be carried out practically throughout the year, even in wintertime. Therefore, during the tourist season, the Infrastructure Directorate on the national network in the coastal area ceased and will continue in the autumn. I can tell you that these activities are carefully planned. In last year, the Regulation has also been amended to allow night work, so that these restrictions are indeed limited to the shortest possible [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u211	Mr. Jean Mahnič, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Let's get this straight. I'm not against the renovations you wanted to show. I'm pleased that the renovations are under way. First of all, you said that there was more money and that this was why the renovations were taking place, that we were also constantly warning that the road network should be restored. Of course it's the right thing to do. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we welcome these renovations, but this is exactly what you mentioned twice or three times – the careful planning of Dars. I don't mind, of course there are road sections right now because there is no school, because people are on leave, where traffic is definitely smaller. I don't have a problem with you salinizing our beach in the valley of Poland, and that's why we have a traffic light, because the road is unloaded because there are fewer transports than usual. I showed you, look, the surroundings of Ljubljana, and above all the coastal highway; not to talk about the coast. Mr. Minister, my colleague told me that he went on vacation, tell me, is it really necessary to mow the grass on Izola-Strujjan Road on Saturday morning and close one part of the belt for this?Oh, my God! That on Saturday morning, when it's the most traffic, it cuts the grass. This is not necessary and certainly not careful planning. When you say that certain works can only be done in warmer months and that larger works take about 3, 4 months. September, October, November – these are months as warm as they are; April, May, June too. We do not want to avoid all the work, but especially the tourist most burdened. We know which two ways; against Istria and those going towards Kvarner or Dalmatia, these two paths are the most burdensome. And I ask you, when you plan to work for the next season to avoid such interventions as this year's, a break from Unca to Ravbarkomanda, where it is really unnecessary to cause congestion and get the drivers nervous.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u213	Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u214	Only an additional explanation, in this key section of Unec-Ravbarkomanda, are works that are longer, so they need longer time and cannot be performed only within the time available, in spring or autumn. Some interruption, which would last from June to September, is also not considered. It is also necessary to include the summer period in an appropriate way, since the difficulty itself, i.e. the time period, is such that this inclusion of the summer season cannot be avoided. However, this disturbance is minimal, provided by two lanes in each direction, so that the entire impact of this closure is due to the speed limitation itself; while some major congestions due to such works do not occur. The second thing is what you mentioned, in Primorsk, the reconstruction works were stopped during the summer. However, if a concessionaire has chosen an inappropriate term in the context of regular maintenance, we will also point out that such things are more appropriate in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u215	Mr Primož Hainz will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Irena Majcen, Mr Boris Koprivnik. I'm going to ask Mrs. Irene Majcen a short question. Some Slovenians did not realize the ideal of living in houses, houses in the field; but we live in blocks, multi-housing houses. And we have to have administrations in these multi-housing houses. And this management of these houses then somehow regulates the law. But this law has, over the years, also shown a series of shortcomings or types of holes, if I may say, through which some come; and many are dissatisfied with this management in residential buildings. This then breaks down on the manager as a rule, i.e. the manager's attitude towards people or vice versa, people to the manager; and the manager is to blame. Of course, the problem is not just this relationship, but in particular the problem of finance, especially the reserve housing fund, which is supposed to be for investments. This fund sometimes reaches high numbers; the euro and also more per square meter. And then it's practically the same cost as rent in such a block or all the other costs in the block as a whole. There's a lot of comments here. A very simple question, Madam Minister: What are you planning on doing about this subject?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u217	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u218	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Primož Hainz, honourable Member, thank you for the question. The fact is that we have concluded or prepared, at the Ministry, a resolution on the national housing programme, endorsed by both the Government and the National Assembly, which means that we have already identified some things in this prepared and adopted document, that they will need to be amended. That is why we have also prepared amendments to the Housing Law in 2016, which, following the publication of these changes in the public debate today, have had a lot of responses, comments, proposals. Since these changes were also opposed by the owners' representatives, we have withdrawn them from acceptance. However, they focused mainly on ensuring a higher level of security of the reserve fund, namely finance, which is the most often the basis of mistrust between managers and owners of dwellings. We have already submitted to the Institute for Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana a draft starting point for the renovation of housing legislation in specific areas; on the basis of a call for proposals. The invitation to tender was drawn up on the basis of a resolution adopted on the national housing programme. The Institute also prepared us a draft starting points, which were first one month in public decommissioning and then a public debate was held. In addition to institutional discussions, all stakeholders active in the housing sector, i.e. housing funds, local communities and ministries, owners' associations, tenants' associations, administrators' organisations, student organisations, were also invited to this public debate. The possibility of cooperation and commenting on this draft baseline has indeed been the widest possible option. However, it is true that the law will now have to be written, the work has already been joined, and we have been strengthened somewhat in this part. This is urgent, the law is demanding. It covers a wide range of solutions to be implemented by this law, but Slovenia is also slightly special compared to European countries, as the share of private-owned dwellings among European countries is highest. It is difficult to say what will be prepared, but based on an analysis of the implementation of the Housing Law, these analyses will lay the groundwork for the preparation of legislative solutions. At the Ministry, we have set up work to prepare the law by the end of this year as a draft and to put it into public debate at the beginning of next year. If there are not many comments, this means that the draft law would be relatively well prepared, there is a possibility that it should also be adopted. I would like that to be the case; however, this is difficult to predict, because in the time of public debate, it is precisely the response of the representatives of the owners of the apartments that is of paramount importance. A civil society organised as a representative of the owners sometimes, in my personal opinion, makes comments that we do not expect, we cannot imagine that the owners of the apartments should think as they imagine. We want to make the most of our response to the right owners and to examine things ourselves or to save them in a way that pleases them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u219	Mr. Primoz Hainz, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your answer. And I have to be honest with you at this point in the sense that not only are there major problems with administrative work, but they are also with self-government. We have owners in our apartments who have no interest in building management. We have owners who connect or some people connect with the manager and then work together as hard as they can. First of all, the first category, so-called indolent, if I may say so, the one who has no interest in anything, then talks about everything being as bad as it is. This is the problem with our local self-government among the owners of apartments. I believe that the problems are great, but I hope that, despite everything, the law based on what you said will be prepared by autumn with the help of the profession and your people, because some things really need to be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u221	We continue with Mr Jan Škobernet's question to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The constitutional principle of local self-government and the general principle – which I understand more or less – we all accept – are not new to the necessity of a balanced regional development, not for today's series of questions sent. We have listened, for example, to Mr Lisco's question, and to some of his colleagues and colleagues, and to all the graves, to the fundamental fear of people, which is due to the activities that are taking place. It is a fear of the fact that services are centralising increasingly towards the centre, that any reorganisation from the periphery – more than you are from Ljubljana and larger cities – is done more effectively – brings quality jobs, opportunities for people to access quality services of the state administration. This is not done with the logic of transferring it to, for example, the provincial level, which would of course be logical. We haven't been able to do this in 20 years. I don't blame you here. And like many processes, we are now in the process of reorganising financial operations or optimising the financial operations of administrative units when we get new centres where these joint services will perform technical tasks; which is good, which is logical. However, it is a fact that these centres will be located in selected locations, but not in all municipalities, which, according to some regionalisation principle, should be logical. We do not have as many municipalities as the others, and in some remarks they are likely to constitute at least the basic basis for future regionalisation, unless you enlighten me that this is no longer in the plan. And now, at least this kind of information, a new reorganisation has taken place, for example, the possibility that the administrative centres of this part of the joint services, which are excluded in Ptuj, Slovenia and Velenj, will be. My question is only in the direction: What were the criteria for identifying these 12 centres? How do you estimate that they follow the principle of coherent regional development? How does this reorganisation, I understand that it can be in line with a government strategy, also relate to steps towards future regionalisation and integration of municipalities? Is this quite thoughtful, or is it a process that we may rush into, not necessarily, but just to make it happen? Do we know that this follows, for example, the next step — the establishment of provinces? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u223	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u224	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Member, for that question. Let me tell you first if you're talking about optimizing the operation of administrative units. Administrative units are part of the state administration in the field; they are not part of local self-government. These are two completely separate cases. And how local self-government may be regionalised is another matter; and how the state operates through administrative units is a matter of state. This is one thing that is important at first to stress and also to understand. The next thing that needs to be understood is that, over and over again, when we are looking for more optimal ways for the functioning of the country, and this is our fundamental mission, we must ensure that for taxpayers we generate as much added value as possible for tax money, for as little as possible. So we need to constantly look for improvements, ways to achieve more rational tasks. The third principle, which is important to stress, is that regardless of how we are looking for more rational ways to carry out these tasks, especially the supporting ones we are talking about today, this is in no way prejudice to the accessibility of services to citizens. The availability of services has not changed in any way. We have not taken any locations with the availability of services for this reason, because in this case we are talking about the pooling of financial and accounting services that count wages, set up accounts and so on. These are not services provided by the State for citizens. These do not change in anything and remain exactly the same. However, this is a fundamental objective that we have reached on the basis of a functional analysis where we have analysed 240 public administrations, including a complex system of administrative units. We have found that we can conduct financial support services more rationally in such a way that support financial services are provided in one administrative unit for several other administrative units. We've done this on two pilots; we've looked at whether it works how it's being prepared; and now we're moving on with this task. So it's not a reorganisation, but it's a continuous improvement of operation and we're actually working in this direction. The first results show that this so-called project gives good results, that workers are satisfied that the services are running smoothly; and therefore we continue to gradually extend these tasks. It is, however, a fundamental dilemma that we always have in relation to local communities in the administration of the State, whether it is to pursue rationalisation of the operation, which on the one hand also means that a service is sometimes combined, transferred to one location and is no longer possible in three, five or ten; or to preserve the services, even though we are aware that they are irrational, just to preserve jobs. So we are always in a dilemma, or we can finance something that we know we can do more rationally, and we will conscientiously renounce rationalisation; or we can combine it, if we know how to combine it. We have therefore chosen the principle of bringing together only those services that are not related to direct services for citizens. This is a criterion that services for citizens do not change. It's about regionalisation itself. We have already written down in the Strategy for the Development of Local Self-Government that we want regionalisation to happen organically, which means that we first give the content that can be implemented regionally, and then we determine the form. Because the attempt to define the regions in advance has not been successful without clear content, so we are now trying to determine what the content of which is possible to combine in a particular region. And then it's also some logical way of sweeping up the landscapes that would gradually take over the tasks of part of state jurisdiction, and part of the tasks that the congregations are willing to combine also under municipal jurisdiction. In this way we get the logical content of future regionalisation, but with these concrete projects that we are talking about today, we are not prejudiced in any way; we are just looking for ways to make the best possible implementation of what we owe to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u225	Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I am pleased that the work has proved successful and that pilots have also shown positive results. First of all, I'm glad the employees are happy with what you're doing. It is far from agreeing that the issue of organisation and work of the state administration is completely separate from local self-government. As you know or may not have come to you, it would be wise to consider soon whether we have distributed all the powers correctly. Compared to many countries, the Republic of Slovenia is uncompetitive at a point where, for example, building permits are still regulated separately in two institutions of government, it is said through local self-government and through state apparatus. Some countries have successfully brought this together. As you know, the presence of the state administration is not only a question of how the ministry will organise itself for effective access to the service itself, but it is also a question of how certain services paid from the tax money are distributed and implemented throughout the country in an even manner, and at the end of the day the issue of employment is also an issue. It is logical – it is best to move everything to Ljubljana, and all jobs will go to Ljubljana; but the potential for someone else to stay on the periphery will be null and void. And if this is understood by the French Republic, which has been far centralized throughout its history and has come to understand from the megalopolis of Paris that they must go to strengthening the state presence on the periphery, then we must understand that too. But I agree with most of your response. The only thing I asked you directly, you didn't answer me. What are the criteria by which you set 12 seats; and why were those proposed today chosen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u227	Minister Koprivnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you. I'm sorry if I didn't make myself clear. There were more Criters. In particular, we have looked at where, to what extent, one financial service can service many other administrative units. That's one question. The criterion was the staff, the criterion was where the premises were available, the criterion was also the interest of workers and their potential mobility, because there was a certain association; where more certain workers were going. These were criteria of purely working nature. These are not formal criteria, some formal decision making on the basis of which we would do so politically; for this is organizational rationality. How to better organize our own work and that's all we've really had ahead of us. I hope I've got the criteria for you now. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, what the local government is doing and what the state is doing. You must understand that it is our task, in particular that of the Ministry of Public Administration, to ensure the conditions for the performance of the tasks to be performed by law by the State. The Ministry of Public Administration cannot judge who will perform what task – perhaps at local or national level. We are obliged through administrative unit systems to ensure the ongoing performance of the tasks. The contents of these tasks are assigned to us by individual ministries – internal affairs, agriculture and many others – which tell us exactly how to carry out our tasks. Regarding centralisation, let me say that no job from the regions has moved to Ljubljana, but in a certain area we combine support services, we do not move them to Ljubljana. We combine them in a certain area. I can't agree to this thesis that this is centralisation of the country as such. Only regionally do we combine those tasks that are so rationally possible to carry out. With regard to the response to how to implement more rationally, say, construction legislation and the like, this is the matter that needs to be addressed if legislation is to be adopted. If the legislation determines that the competent and responsible authority for carrying out a specific task is someone other than today, then this will also have to be done. But you must understand that the Ministry of Public Administration ensures the functioning of the system, not content and competence. That's not what the Ministry can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u229	We continue with the question of the Magi. Mark Pogačnik to Justice Minister Mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u230	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Minister! I would like to ask you a question below. I want to know: What is the position of the Ministry of Justice towards so-called deleted companies, which were removed from the register by the Financial Business Act, we all know in 1999? Here we can listen to a very sad story, and we can all agree together that such a law as was adopted in 1999 is unknown anywhere in the world. This means that businesses are wiped out overnight without prior liquidation. In this, at least in my opinion, a great deal of irregularity is now directly involved by 18,000 entrepreneurs, if we include all of his family members and all of them, that is probably about 80,000 people. Here we can read very sad stories that some, along with all their possessions, have been forced to commit suicide as epilogues when people were under this burden that this dishonest law imposed upon them were forced to take their whole lives. We can read a variety of opinions, including constitutional lawyers and others, that this law is indeed a special feature and that injustices have taken place in this law. On the other hand, if we examine the law a little bit more, we find that some companies that have been erased by this law have also had their creditors who, because of the cancellation of their debts, have not been able to recover. We all know that there has also been a judgment, proceedings in Strasbourg at the European Court of Human Rights, that the matter is not yet final. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: What is the position of the Ministry of Justice on deleted companies?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u231	Minister Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, for your word. Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. It's a cakemaker! Ambassadors and Members, colleague and colleague! I'll start by agreeing with you. I agree that this story has many tragic and sad personal stories. I also had a civil initiative in April 2015, where we also discussed possible solutions. At that time, I made it clear that I still have a position to insist on today. Since the case is before the European Court of Human Rights, this first decision, which is not final, has not been known at the time, we will not try or see any possibility of a separate resolution. Why? Because, as you know, the government has tried this once before with government law in 2007 and Members with parliamentary law in 2011. Both marriages fell in the Constitutional Court. It's a 1999 case, as you yourself said. It was a law, for which the Ministry of Finance was then responsible. This law is certain, now I do not know whether he was the only one in the world or not, to take some extremely rigorous measure, which was the result of one transition and also the result of probably some unmade relationship between all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and ownership, to what it means to lead, control or understand some ownership function. In 2000, the Constitutional Court examined the constitutional position of these shareholders of deleted companies under the then law. You know, that's when he divided his associates into so-called passive and active. As the matter deepened, as I said earlier, the government proposed a legislative solution in 2007 and then the Members in 2011. On both occasions, the Constitutional Court found that such a solution was unconstitutional. In the view of the Constitutional Court, solutions were proposed in direct contradiction with Article 155 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which prohibits the retroactive application of legal acts, since the regime in relation to creditors unlawfully exempt the debtors of its legal obligations. As a matter of fact, I met myself with a civil initiative. I told them we would wait for the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. This was April 2015. At that time, it was suggested that the decision would come soon. The decision came in February this year in the case of Lekic v Slovenia. It is a first decision, it is also a decision concerning an active participant, and it is therefore not possible to broadly conclude whether the final decision will now be in full favour of one or the other party. The complainant complained to the Grand Chamber, the Grand Senate, and we will see what the final decision of the European Court of Human Rights will be. In any case, we are prepared to make one or the other decision. However, you must understand, and so we have also talked with civil initiative; because it is a case that arose in 1999 that two different governments and, apart from each other, Members have tried to resolve the matter with a special law, that both of these laws have fallen before the Slovenian Constitutional Court, it is only right to let the ECHR decide; and then we respect this decision, whether it is so or not. I agree, however, that if the decision is possibly different as indicated in the Lekić case, where the court has decided in favour of Slovenia, if the decision is different and the court decides in favour of the complainant, it will also represent a large financial contribution to the correction of the injustices if recognised as such by the ECHR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u233	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u234	Dear Minister, thank you for this part of the answer. You've also opened up certain things that indicate that it's probably just some sort of alien. This change, for example, of active associates, at least in my behaviour, probably doesn't know any of the international corporate rights of this tumino. On the other hand, you yourself have raised a risk, which could probably still follow the Slovenian budget in case the European Court of Human Rights decides otherwise. Because we know that this procedure has not yet been completed. But it's interesting, at least in my mind, that these beds of apartments and houses are happening right now. And I want to know: Why does the Ministry of Justice or the Government not take at least one temporary measure, make a temporary order and, say, until the final decision of the European Court of Human Rights at least all these procedures would be suspended or frozen? In my view, such a decision could probably be more prudent and more cost-effective if the European Court of Human Rights decided further than it is now. For if it will decide, as you have already established, then Slovenia is likely to be following at least one billion monetary compensations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u235	Minister Mag. Klemenice, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. We also discussed this as one of the possible solutions, which was rejected for a simple reason. As it is said, in two ways, the matter has already been tried. Both of these two ways were recognized as unconstitutional. The same would happen to any intervention law. You must know — and I know that you know — that on the one hand we have terrible, sad stories of individuals who are legally recognized as debtors; on the other hand, we have creditors. Any intervention law that would prevent for one group of people from making a payment that is legally recognized, including those creditors who are creditors – and among them not only large corporations, but also individuals and independent entrepreneurs, we have terrible stories. You know, corporate-debt relationships are bilateral, and we have these and different stories. In general, we do not actually see a short-term solution at this time, and we must wait for the whole system, as established in 1999, and then confirmed twice at the Constitutional Court, to survive the judgment in the European Court of Human Rights. If we don't, we'll have to find the right solutions. Any intervention, as you know that the government cannot freeze certain enforcement procedures on its own without the legal basis; this would require a law that is as controversial as the previous two attempts. I know that there is also a lot of talk in the public about giving this because the final decision in the European Court of Human Rights will cost us no more. Similarly, if we do so, then we are brought before the courts by creditors for violations already committed by the Constitutional Court This is in some way a truly insurmountable problem at this time and we only hope that the European Court of Human Rights will make a decision as soon as possible; however it may be. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u237	Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Very nice greetings to all, especially to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Matei Vraničar Erman! Madam Minister, I would like to convey to you the many hardships that come to me in my office, which also has an open door in our home – migrant workers. They shall receive in this mandate decisions on the deduction of income for years. Madam Minister, the fact is that the tax burdens will simply not be met. They also turn to the Ombudsman, who says in his reply that he does not have jurisdiction, which of course is true; he insists that he also seeks the help of more and more people – migrant workers who come mainly from northeast Slovenia. You know, when people are in trouble, they shut up and they get depressed, they're looking for help from a local MP. Madam Minister, the legislation must be respected, there is no doubt about that. From years of experience, we both know that migrant workers do not know the complex tax legislation that often changes. Taxes are not avoided, so they need to be helped in some way. I ask you, Madam Minister: How are you going to go across from them as Minister of Finance? If the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia do not help these debtors, there will be increasing auctions of assets created by migrant workers abroad, some even for decades; not to mention other and different family tragedies. I thank you in advance for understanding the acute problem and I also expect your solutions in your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u239	Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u240	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! The problem you are drawing attention to is that we have a virtually full mandate. We tried in different ways. What has been established is as follows: the Financial Administration appoints a specific person at the General Finance Office who can provide direct explanations to anyone who wishes to settle his tax liability in relation to the issue under consideration. Information centres are also established by financial offices and written explanations on the Financial Administration website; all with a view to explaining in as simple and humanly as possible the obligations arising from the fact that individuals work in another country and stay in Slovenia. At the legislative level, already in 2016, the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation implementing the Tax Procedure Act, which, not only for the sake of migrant workers, allowed for the reverse payment of tax liabilities in 24 instalments, even if very strict criteria regarding the property or income status of individual taxpayers have not been met. It is crucial for such taxable persons to recognise that there are certain tax obligations to the State of Slovenia because they are residents of the Republic of Slovenia. If we decided to settle our obligations on a regular basis in the form of an advance, including this problem of high payments, and did not at all pay for many years ago, it would not be. It is also necessary to mention the amendment of the Income Act, which has recognised for this group of taxpayers that they are in a special situation concerning the reimbursement of transport costs and the reimbursement of food costs during work. As a result, a different solution is established for them, as is the case for individuals who are employed in Slovenia and who impose such costs. The nominal amount provides for higher amounts exempted from the tax base. I would like to say that in our daily work we are trying to alleviate the hardship of these individuals, in particular by providing adequate information and providing appropriate legal basis for the possibility of payment by hand; however, at the level of the legal obligation, we must follow the Constitutional Court's decision that special tax treatment is not compatible with the Slovenian Constitution in terms of the recognition of special personal relief for such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u241	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u242	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your very correct response. And I'm here to confess to you that you're trying, you and Furs, to how to face these people. Of course, these people do not study tax legislation as much as we do. The fact is, they just don't know the deadlines, so they forget when to apply and so on. I cite the example that the Slovenian public will have one more comprehensive picture. I provide examples of income doses and the chronology of receiving decisions for a migrant worker who has been working in Germany for more than 30 years and has a certificate proving that he is a resident of Germany. In September 2016, he received a decision on income for 2010 – a weak 12 000 euro. Twelve thousand euros. In so doing, let me say that the income has been paid from the total gross income, there is no relief, no deductions and taxes paid in Germany. After that, in December 2016, he received a decision on the amount of income for 2013 – EUR 5 000 300. January 2012 – a good €6,000; March 2014 – almost €6,000. And April 2011 – €6,000,500. Together, 36,000 euros are weak. It's impossible to pay, unless he sells everything he's created over the past 30 years. And I also believe that this is a good solution, Madam Minister, that there is an information point or contact person at the tax office. But this official, too, will normally look at strict tax regulations, and I don't know if he's really going to go to this taxpayer who's in serious trouble. And I repeat, no one is saying, at least in my office, that the tax will not be paid; but specifically, that 36,000 euros simply cannot be paid in 24 meals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u243	Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u244	Thank you very much again for your word. As I mentioned earlier, we pay particular attention to informing the taxpayers, especially the taxpayers of day-to-day labour migrants. The contact person at Furs is only one of these forms of information. Other information is available on Fursa’s website. The third form is the call for a wide variety of means of public information and fora, when it falls under an obligation or when it is necessary, within which time limits one of the obligations must be fulfilled. In this respect, we have also connected with the Migrant Workers' Union and through their website we provide – if of course they are willing to participate – information that helps people to fulfil their obligations. I find it difficult to comment on a specific case that you have mentioned because I do not know the personal circumstances of the taxpayer concerned and I cannot investigate them because I am bound by tax secrecy. The financial management cannot provide such data. But very general. Such an additional tax obligation shows that the individual’s income is not very low and also indicates that income has not been declared in the past 5, 6 years. It is likely that the Financial Administration has obtained information on its revenue through the exchange of information with the foreign financial administration, and there are always a number of delays in these exchanges. As I have mentioned, this particular debtor, as well as all others, has the possibility of being paid by hand. However, if there are serious problems or serious reservations about the possibility of surviving him or his family, the Tax Procedure Act is also aware of the tax write-off institution; but in this case the property and income status of the individual debtor should be carefully reviewed. Mechanisms are available to address such problems; in general, regular compliance with tax obligations is best prevented from such payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u245	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That's right. I'm taking advantage of the business opportunity. First of all, I thank the Minister for the correct answer. I appreciate that it would be good for us to hold a debate, including with the aim of informing those of the kind of commitments that we have just discussed with the Minister. We're all aware, as Benjamin Franklin once said, that only death and taxes are reliable in this world. That's the way it is. I, too, am committed to the protection of tax confidentiality, although I have here quite a record of the individual case of this taxpayer, who is asking the Member for help. It is true that the data comes from the payer, that is, from the employer. It is interesting that in this income decision, income has been paid practically for all gross annual earnings. But it doesn't matter now that we're talking about details, we're talking about how people need to be informed in what way and when it's the right time to make a statement on income and to prepare all the data that is considered tax relief. I think we could do something good for our citizens if we could discuss this issue at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u247	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We continue with the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the Minister of Justice, mags. Goran Klemenčich. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Interesting stories would say what we just heard: a country towards an individual. There is something similar about my question. The Courts Act, in Article 83, states precisely that between 15 July and 15 August, judicial leave takes place, and in the nine indents it also states exactly what the courts are doing and what they are not doing at that time. Of course, in these nine indents, all that is necessary for the decision-making of the courts even during summer holidays is listed in order to avoid any difficulties in the functioning of the judicial system. In 2015 there was an exception to this legal provision in Maribor. France Kangler received a series of invitations to trial during court holidays, which, of course, in accordance with Article 83 of the Law on Courts, are not allowed or provided for. It was only after he protested that the matter had been dropped and no proceedings had taken place. The same story repeats in 2017. Thus, despite clearly stated legal provisions, what happens during court holidays and what is being done, there is once again a series of hearings in his case. It is as if Franc Kangler is not a national of this country, in which it is imperative to respect the provisions of this law. The situation here is also relatively interesting because 20 criminal charges have been filed against him, as you know, and so far 12 cases have definitively fallen. 12 criminal charges went to the trash bin. This shows, of course, that the state, or the prosecution system, is simply getting on top of it. Otherwise, we can't say it. In this regard, I ask the Minister: Are you familiar with this case? Are you going to put in some kind of control? I'd expect him to get up and say, "They're going to fly heads." In some cases, that's what he's already said. If another Justice Minister said that, it would probably be half of Slovenia on its feet, but now it's different because we have another government. I therefore ask the Minister whether he is aware of this matter and if and how he intends to act on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u249	Here you go, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr. Gorenak, Member of Parliament, other Members and Members of Parliament! I think that we have actually discussed this issue last year and that it was also a question of the mission. At that time, the matter, as you yourself said in your parliamentary question, was called off, and the ministry did not then continue its activities. Am I aware of this? I was informed about this, or the Ministry was informed about it last week, when it received a letter from the 2015 Committee on this particular case, the letter raised the issue of the trial of Mr Kangler during the judicial holidays, so we resigned the letter to the competent service of the Ministry responsible for overseeing the organisation of the proceedings and led by the appointed judge. It will take appropriate action on the basis of writing, assess whether it has the competence to exercise extraordinary control, since we are not talking about regular supervision here, and we will be able to inform you of your wishes in writing. Since I don't know the deep end of the matter, I'm not going to prejudge what right or wrong conduct is. It is a fact, and I can therefore fully agree that the Law on the Courts of Justice in Article 83 severely restricts the possibility of procedural acts and the deadlines between court holidays. However, it is not as simple as you would like to present yourself, because in the nine indents listed, the law defines which of those urgent matters, in the end, says "other matters for which the law so provides". Even though I am a justice minister, I do not want to say to myself in advance that I know all the possible matters on which the law provides for any priority treatment. I don't want to prejudge anything, I just want to say that as soon as we were aware of it, we assigned it to the service responsible. As it is said, if you wish to express this wish at this meeting, we will inform you as soon as the decision of the service is taken or the relevant information from the court is obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u251	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Basically, I must say that I am satisfied with what you have said, except that: “other matters for which the law so provides”. The law should therefore provide that proceedings may take place during judicial holidays. Personally, I think this part is completely undeniable. The fact is, in my opinion – what control will show – I do not know – that in the case of this person, Mr Kangler, this is an abuse. I believe and I hope that this control of yours will show that. In this context, I would like to ask you to convey to me, following the supervision of the findings of control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u253	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. We're going to send you the findings absolutely. Just one thing, please, you really can't do before control does its job, say it's abuse. Let's wait and see what he finds out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u255	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you a question regarding the implementation of investments at local level compared to the state level. I know it's not comparable, but I'll give you a case. Where at local level there is a larger investment where the municipality cannot fully close the investment, it must obtain the consent of the Ministry of Finance to join that investment. This is a ranking that the congregations can still afford, from a few hundred thousand to two, three million. In short, it is an investment rank for which municipalities must obtain the consent of the Ministry of Finance if they cannot close these investments themselves or have to go to the bank for credit. I understand that because it is actually an impact on the state budget. I would like to raise the question: What are the measures of consensus and risk control when it comes to major state investments carried out by various ministries having a direct or indirect impact on the state budget? What, though, is the position of the Ministry of Finance, how does it protect itself from the risks of investments which are guaranteed in the future that the state budget will take full responsibility? What are the measures, what are the legal bases and how do the Ministry control the risks – here we are talking about large state investments – for the state budget in these major investments?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u257	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u258	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Member, thank you for asking. I have to start by not giving the Ministry of Finance consent for any investment, not at national or local level. What is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance for local investment is to agree on a possible commitment. According to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, municipalities can only be responsible for their investment or developmental work, and if they wish to do so, they must obtain the consent of the Ministry of Finance, regardless of the investment involved. So, in fact, the Ministry does not consent to the investment, but rather to the act of borrowing itself. In full, the Public Finance Act applies both to municipalities and to state budgetary users in the part where Article 65 provides that the chairman of the direct user is the one responsible for the legality, purpose, efficiency and efficiency of the management of budgetary resources. In line with this, all budgetary users – and now I am going to the state level – must plan their budget expenditure and be able to allocate the appropriations independently in the budget between individual economic purposes. When planning investment expenditure, these are reflected in the development programme plan for the next four years. This is the so-called third part of the budget, which is also discussed by the National Assembly. These plans for the development programmes are drawn up after years in which expenditure will burden the budgets of the coming years and from sources of funding for the full implementation of the programmes. Investments planned and recorded in the framework of projects are subject to the Government's Single Methodology Regulation for the preparation and treatment of public finance investment documentation. And the preparation of investment documentation, mostly in these cases large projects, is not a matter of a single ministry, but of government material and in the context of intersectoral coordination, we also coordinate on the financial implications of each investment. However, at national level, as we know, a single portfolio does not have the responsibility of independently indebtedness, but it is a joint responsibility for the execution of the state budget and the payment of previously hired loans, so that we also provide adequate control through this mechanism. The risk management measures are therefore different, including the objectives pursued at local or national level, and we are going from case to case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u259	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answers. Of course, I highlighted the local debt because the municipalities are only in charge of investments, but of course not directly for investments, but actually for closing, financially, their budget. Now I'm going a little more specific. I'm thinking about building a second track. As was the case in the past in fashion that the municipalities in some way avoided the consent of the Ministry of Finance, there was in fashion a public-private partnership, which was nothing but another form of debt. But this is no longer the case now, because the Court of Auditors has found that it is in fact just a debt and nothing else. But that was fashionable and certain congregations, those who were among the first to avoid it. Now we're going to the state level. Very well, very clearly and very precisely you have told how it is at the state level, NRP, what, second, third. Now let's look at the investment in the second track. Is there a second track in the NRP? It's not. Does he have an investment program? No, it's not. Does PZI have project documentation? No, it's not. In short, if we look at the explanation of the Legal and Legislative Service, where all the risks are also explained, in the event of a bankruptcy, 2TKK assumes the obligation to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It further states that the law on the construction of the second track actually reads “the part of the risk transferred to the concessionaire involves actual exposure to market uncertainties, which means that the estimated potential loss for the concessionaire is not merely nominal or negligible”. In short, it's a big risk. But here's where we've established the law so that we can avoid it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u261	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u262	Thank you very much. First, let me mention that the public-private partnership is a fully legitimate and increasingly common form of cooperation between the public and private spheres in the design of projects or in the implementation of projects that benefit both the public sphere and the individual. For this reason, I would not want to, at both local and national level, express, as if a public-private partnership, this form of mutual cooperation, merely abuses the jurisdiction before certain legal provisions. Second. As regards the second indent law, which will now be the subject of the referendum, let me point out that this law has nothing to do with the public-private partnership. The public-private partnership was one of the options that was examined with regard to the possibility of the construction of the second track, but was abandoned during implementation. The Law on the construction of the second track lays down its construction structure, divides costs between the state budget and partially provides for the payment or financing of construction by those who will benefit the most from the second track, and in my opinion it establishes the right balance between financing from the general revenues of the state budget on the one hand and on the other hand those dedicated revenue. I think that the form of financing for the construction of the second track, which has been chosen by law, offers actually less exposure to the state budget in terms of the usual integral non-purpose resources of the state budget compared to the other options that have emerged in the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u263	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u264	Of course, I propose that this be discussed. That is, the Minister, from your point of view, it is clear that, if a law is adopted, a concessionaire is to be appointed and regardless of the risks to which the state budget is exposed, we avoid all other legal steps, so that investment in the state NRP, the development programme plan, must have an investment programme designed to be closed. In short, all these conditions are met. This is said to be the next thing that will not actually be settled, which in fact will not have all these conditions required by the rest of the financial legislation, only a law such as the Second Tier Act is passed, and then we avoid all these financial risks to the budget in an elegant way. That's a fact. You have now specifically said this; that this is the case with the law and that this investment is not in the NRP at all. Is there a second track in the NRP? He's not here! The investment of the second track is not included in the Development Programme Plan of the Republic of Slovenia. She's not here! Yes, the law has been passed, yes, we have made a circuit to avoid all these steps prescribed by law. That's a fact. We don't have an investment programme, we don't even know how much the investment of this project will be, but we all say, "Yes, we have an adopted law." But look at the explanation of the Legal and Legal Service, here are exposed risks. If 2TKK goes bankrupt, the state assumes responsibility, the state budget. But you haven't forgotten to write that down in case of bankruptcy and the budget covers that? But we could find another circuit here to cover this other marriage! These are very logical and very simple things. It's just an excuse. Let's do one circuit, we will not go along the established legislative path, where it is clear how companies are planning, that the development agenda plan provided for in the national budget must also be for a longer period, which is being amended every so long in terms of time. But in this case we have adopted a law, “yes, but here is the law.” I think this thing is a very clear indication that something is very wrong here. But here we've avoided the circuit, and now for every single thing, for every investment that won't be covered, that won't be closed, that won't show the value, we'll just adopt the law, and the thing is solved. So I propose a public debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u265	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017, in the framework of the votes. Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr. Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of Magna Steyr said in talks with representatives of NGOs that the location of their investment in the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica was not their choice or condition for cooperation, but was offered by the Slovenian side, that is your ministry. They also said that according to their behaviour, Urbis carried out the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica according to the instructions of your Ministry and according to parameters transmitted by Magna Steyr. On Friday, 7 July 2017, the Maribor water supply limited the consumption of drinking water to a further extent, as the capacity of the water network does not allow uninterrupted supply of drinking water, especially in higher lying areas. Magna Steyr intends to use 170 million litres of drinking water from the Maribor water network according to environmental impact assessments, which is more than the annual production of beer from all breweries in the country of 130 million. The revised estimate of drinking water consumption is still within 100 million litres. I'm asking you: Which legal person made a choice on your Ministry's orders between potential locations for the Magna Steyr industrial painting plant and which locations were all in the range of potential locations? Please list the remaining four locations that have been classified among the first five in addition to the current location in the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, in order of the most optimal downwards, preferably with a point or percentage evaluation of the appropriateness level. I also want to know: How do you assess the credibility of the statement made by the Maribor water supply public company, which has given the environmental impact assessment manufacturers who have concluded that the public water network capacity allows increased consumption of healthy drinking water for industrial use in Magna Styer? Please assess the credibility of the current restrictions on the use of drinking water for the population of the area provided by the Maribor water supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u267	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u268	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. At the request of the investor Magna Steyr, the Ministry sought a location of 100 hectares, although the first question was for 15 hectares, the second for 60 and finally in a very short time 100. The location determined by the amended Municipal Spatial Plan of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica for the Production Zone was already provided for in the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023. The then Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepted it 12. Ten. 2006 for the Oreh logistics centre. The decision to choose the location for the construction of the production complex for Magna was made in the process of preparing changes and supplementing the Municipal Spatial Plan of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. The municipality shall decide when and how to proceed with the preparation of amendments to the Municipal Spatial Plan, according to legislation, is completely autonomous. It begins with the municipal council’s decision on the start of the preparation, and the decision also sets out how to obtain professional solutions or which professional basis will need to be drawn up. The legislation also provides that alternative solutions may be drawn up for individual spatial arrangements. This needs to be evaluated and compared from a spatial, environmental, functional and economic perspective. This analysis was prepared by Urbis. I must say that nine, not four, potential locations were checked, including existing industrial degraded areas, both in the Municipality of Maribor and in other municipalities. I must point out that, according to the size, accessibility, infrastructure equipment and other protection limits of the area, they did not correspond to such a programme. They were specifically located in the following municipalities: Municipality of Maribor, Municipality of Ruše, Municipality of Ptuj, Municipality of Hajdina, Municipality of Kidričevo, Municipality of Starše, Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica and Municipality of Lenart. Let me say that there was another potential location in the narrower selection in the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica. It was not selected because it did not allow connection to the required infrastructure. The most suitable locations were not evaluated either at points or at percentages. With regard to your last question concerning the positive consent of the Maribor water pipeline, I must say that consent was given in the context of the adoption of the Municipal Spatial Plan. Of course, it is not the responsibility of our ministry to question their professional judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u269	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you gave me a nice answer, but there's still an infinite number of holes. Before, a colleague spoke about another problem, but he talked about the fact that there was no financial plan or nothing. I'm missing some stuff here. Why does she need Magna Steyr for 400, 300, 3 000, and a thousand 500, and I don't know how many more 100 hectares of employees, when we know that, say, the whole Revoz complex works on about 5 hectares with a few thousand employees? You say, from 15, 60, 100 — what will they do later? Do you know if the municipalities know or do anyone in Slovenia know how it will continue? How will it spread? What will spread on the best agricultural land, while some degraded land is said to have not been taken into account? Destructed areas where they were formerly factories, and these large complexes of factories that had electrical connections, had connections to the sewers, had connections to the water, had everything, and did not fit the customer or buyer or investor, while here where we know that there are fields where there is no water or electricity or nothing, but everything is fine. The airport is close and the highway for some of the unknown future projects. Moreover, it is also of little doubt that the company that was working on a spatial plan for one congregation will find the only suitable location in that congregation. It may be true, but in such cases, I immediately wonder if there is any connection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u271	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Why does Magna need 100 acres; 15, 60, 100? After the first request, we offered the location of the business zone Thesno, which is as big in the final stage as demand, but this business area is occupied by more than 60% and the rest is not spatially combined. When we arrived at 60 hectares, we offered them a location near the city of Maribor. When they increased the case to 100, we stayed at these nine locations, examined them, and proposed the location I mentioned. We have also studied throughout Slovenia – I think there is a huge number of business zones with between 250 and 300 hectares. The average size of the business zone is 18.2 hectares, the largest one is on Ptuj, 120 hectares, the smallest one is semi-hectar. The meeting of all zones shall be at least 50%. I can also talk about every single person we've studied, what I say. What do they want to do in this area? If you make a connection between 100 hectares and the first phase, you can rightly ask the questions you have asked. In the Government, we are aware and I think that we have also informed the general public of two discussions around this investment, where three phases, the first of which is confirmed, are presented in detail, the second is in the final phase and the third is not. The first stage is a famous painting room which, according to our profound judgment, makes no sense to do unless it is followed by stage two and stage three. We are aware of this – I personally visited the plant in Graz – that they need to increase the capacity of the parent factory as quickly as possible at this time. The second phase is the production of metal parts on this site, and the third stage is the final production of 200 000 car units on this site. All things make sense. Once again, the first is confirmed, the second is in the final phase and will be confirmed when we are able or able to establish the conditions for the first phase. But I deeply believe that the first or second doesn't make sense if the matter doesn't end. But we must take the first step that will allow us to bring this matter to an end. I must say that I believe that we have found an appropriate location, which is ultimately infrastructure-bound with two motorways, a railway track and an airport, and was intended for a logistics centre after a decision by one of the previous governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u273	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u274	First of all, of course, I suggest we talk about this. Not because the minister would answer poorly; I often get very evasive answers or nothing. After all, I have received answers to everything, but with some — not the minister, not the minister, that he will not think about it now — I have bad experience that there are very nice words, but some things in which more or less everyone believes eventually lead to disasters. And I'm not going to make a name for it now. So I would like to look again very carefully at the debate in the National Assembly, what is true, what is fiction, what is not. Among other things, I have also heard – I don't know how true – that Magna in Graz wants to set up a factory for, I think, Jaguar or something, electric cars and so on, and wants to save more dirty industries and bring them to a third world, which is increasingly – in the case of developed ones, as Slovenia is also developed – for Western European countries or for large corporations. Therefore, I would like to discuss these issues with you at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u275	Matjaž Hanžek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, and Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A very nice greeting to all, especially to the Minister of Health and to the Minister of Public Administration! Recently, a number of disappointed, sad and angry nurses with a secondary level of education, especially nurses who work in health homes, have been called into our parliamentary group. They were informed that after 20, 30 years of dedicated work, they would be demolished. In particular, in one of the public institutions, the job of a mid-term nurse is now classified in the 22nd pay grade for work in the infirmary, and they are also doing additional and voluntary work that is not in the job description and tasks. The nurses were told that they were expected to receive in September to sign a new employment contract with a new job valued at the 19th grade, which is a degradation for three pay grade. For their self-sacrificing work, medium nurses also receive daily pressures and mobile phones in terms of, quote, “the market is possible to get very quality medical personnel and with new distributions they could easily fill the gap”, the end of the quote. The new Health Activity Act, which I am familiar with, has nothing to do with specific cases. That's why I'm asking you: Are you aware of the announced changes to the systematisations in some public institutions, especially in health care institutions, in terms of the degradation of mid-term nurses to jobs, which are also listed by salary scale for three lower grades, while at the same time requiring the performance of tasks beyond their tasks, at the expense of savings in public institutions due to an agreement between your ministry and doctors? If you are aware of this, what have you done or are you going to do?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u277	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc and Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u278	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, let me say that the agreement concluded with the dentists’ union has nothing to do with what you mentioned at the end of your question. However, this is the problem of the mid-term nurses who have been dragging themselves since 2004, when we entered the European Union, and no one has actually taken care of the mid-term nurses and no one has solved this problem. After 9 months of hard negotiations, we signed an agreement, with the agreement and signatures of all health care unions, chambers and others, signed an agreement, which is realized or found in the transitional provisions of the Law on Health Care, which will finally solve this problem of mid-term nurses with regard to the competences and tasks they perform in their workplace. We are not familiar with the specific issues mentioned at the beginning of your question at the Ministry, so I do not know what public health institutions are, what are the mobings, threats and problems you are talking about. However, it must be said that it is the responsibility of the public administrations to act legally or in accordance with the rules, so any change in systemisation should be accompanied by the applicable legislation in the sub-laws, collective agreements. I am aware that there has been an irregularity in the past, including by deploying medium nurses to certain or appropriate jobs. That is why we want to end these inconsistencies with this amendment of the law. In this proposal for the Health Act, we are solving their status, which, as I said, has not been resolved for 13 and 14 years. This is because the directive on professional qualifications of nurses at the time of entry into the EU was not implemented in a way that would also satisfy the mid-term nurses and not only the nurses who graduated from Slovenia. Like the case in Croatia. At the same time, of course, the status of already employed nurses was not saved, nor in practice did the competences, tasks between graduates and already employed mid-term nurses systematically differed. Therefore, this amendment of the law solves the status of employees of mid-term nurses in a way that recognizes their acquired competence to continue the work and tasks of graduate nurses in the workplace of a graduate nurse. Thus, when the law, I hope, is adopted – and it is within your parliamentary group that you are blocking the reception, otherwise this amendment of the law would already be adopted at this meeting – by taking into account the acquired competence to carry out the duties and activities of a graduate nurse, these will replace formal competences in the formal educational process for the performance of these tasks and tasks. This is said to be a recognition of these competences to the nurses who carry out the duties of a graduate, and they will also be properly rewarded in this work. I would therefore expect all parliamentary groups, including yours, to support this amendment of the Health Action Act in order to finally resolve the status of middle nurses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u279	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. But I still have to go a little bit further, because I am self-aware, I wonder if you may be familiar with the many mobile phones, the threats of leaders in public institutions that occur when preparing changes in systematisations. What will you do about it, and how do you feel about it? In a specific case, I am aware that if a public office were to operate legally, it would not be necessary to cut down after unlawful intervention to reduce the salaries of nurses. Irregularity also applies to the payment of multi-year on-calls to doctors who have not been on duty for many years. Are you going to demand that business controls be carried out? However, since the questions also concern the wage system in the public sector, I kindly request the opinion and the reply of the Minister of Public Administration. Thank you very much in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u281	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u282	Thank you, President. Dear Member, I will try to briefly answer that I will leave my colleague some time. First, I would say that if we are aware of any illegality, they should be reported because there are bodies called to act. As far as the doctors on duty are concerned, you are pleased to know that during the past year, following the mandate of the so-called pro-active inspections, a systematic examination of the on-calls, the documentation and everything about how on-calls are actually performed in hospitals and how on-calls are also accounted for, in particular, according to the amount of matters that the doctor has during the on-call period, since then there are different grounds for calculating these hours of supervision. A systematic proactive inspection was therefore carried out at the initiative of the inspectorate to review this on-call system. However, let me say that when we are talking about the systems set up by the employer, and in this case the healthcare home is an independent employer, it is not a pay system, it is an organisation of work and the employer independently determines this system. If there is any suspicion of irregularity, there is a working inspection and inspection at the Ministry of Public Administration, which are required to verify and also do so, proactively in many cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u283	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u284	Thanks again for saying that. All applications or mobile phones go to the head of the office, but I can call from this place: if I get information that anything illegal has been done or that there are problems with distribution, then I must say that I have already submitted a number of applications and asked for an inspection by the Ministry of Public Administration, and have also carried out a number of checks on this basis and have, of course, sanctioned matters. However, if it does not go through the management of the institution, the first and true title is the world of the institution, which can deal with it and that also the initiative then for further reviews and solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u285	Mr Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irene Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u286	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I ask the distinguished Minister about the Triglav National Park or the implementation of the Triglav National Park Act, in a few days the Director’s post to the current Director will expire. For several years, when this topic is on the agenda, the question arises whether this matter will now be resolved. I'm asking the Minister: Will the new director of Triglav National Park be appointed on 20 July, given that the Board of the Institute has practically already chosen a new director? The second part of the question concerns amendments to the Law on Triglav National Park, in which it was promised that some minor corrections would be made at the table as soon as possible. I saw on the e-portal that these minor changes were published, but I did not see an agreed change that would solve the problem of cycling in the natural environment. In the Triglav National Park, cycling in another more secure park area is permitted under the current law. In the third area of the park, which is less protected and cycling, interestingly, is not allowed. In the discussions that we had already had on the working committee, it was somehow agreed that it was probably a mistake in that sense and that this would be resolved with the next amendment. I want to know: When will this shorter or smaller amendment of the law be in the process? There are some minor changes in the placement of alternative infrastructure interventions, specifically the Mangart road, to complement certain spatial installations with municipal spatial plans rather than necessarily DLN. And it's also a solution that was coordinated with regard to the sports centre at Pokluka. These are minor changes that should see the light of the world as soon as possible so that they can be implemented in practice later. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u287	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u288	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez. Dear Members and Members! Mr Daniel Krivec, honourable Member, thank you for the question. Of course, we talk about the Triglav National Park many times, so – I admit – you are a Member coming from the Triglav National Park, and of course – this is the topic to talk about. It is true that the appointment of the perpetrator of the duty has been repeated several times, but it is true that this authority of the Director, the managing authority, is appointed by the Government following a proposal made by the Minister. Some coordination is therefore certainly necessary when appointing, while the Council of the Institute itself does not appoint, not agree, but submits an opinion to the appointment of the Director, and this is also done by the Council of the Institute of the Triglav National Park. Or will the appointment be until the 20th of this month, when the current appointment is due, I do not hope to assert myself here today. However, everything is being done to ensure that the appointment of the Director takes place at the time necessary for the smooth functioning of the Triglav National Park. There are several parks inside our ministry. The Triglav National Park has been after age since it was established, of course, the oldest park, which is the largest in the number of employees and also on the surface. As a matter of fact, we find these areas to belong to the Triglav National Park, the Slovenians. I am sure that there is no Slovenian who would not claim that we are treating Triglav as the highest summit in Slovenia. It is true, however, that at the time of business in the past, that is, before 2013, the park was in financial trouble. In view of the fact that it is a public institution with financial problems, it is truly surprising that it is lost. And even with the rehabilitation programme we are currently implementing, these losses, which occurred in the pre-2013 period, have not yet been remedied. It is difficult to say in detail why the loss occurred, but it seems that the ambition of the Triglav National Park employees was to run on the calls for a number of projects with the power to acquire European funds and to make some positive development. Unfortunately, not all applications have been successful, no funding has been obtained from the tenders and, of course, outstanding obligations remain in the preparation of the tasks themselves. This insanimation of the park or the failure to implement the rehabilitation programme is still in the air, and several steps still need to be taken to bring about the rehabilitation of the Triglav National Park. As I've already said, this is the only park our ministry is covering and losing. About the Law of Triglav National Park itself. The law is ready and is in the process of being confirmed by the Government. But it is true that articles that are problematic, and one of these articles is also an article that is supposed to regulate driving in a natural environment, we will not open. In particular, because it has already occurred, it would appear that within this article everything that people are not satisfied with is regulated and done in the Law on the Triglav National Park. In fact, the change will apply exclusively to the rehabilitation of the investment in Pluka, and as you said, on this road to Mangart. It is also possible to adopt a municipal space act for Vogel. Immediately after the appointment of the Director in autumn, let us step up our efforts to negotiate with the municipalities, with the local communities, maybe other stakeholders will join in, and try to find the most appropriate solution within the provisions in force in Triglav National Park.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u289	Mr Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u290	Thank you, Madam President. Otherwise, I'm a little confused now because first the minister said she didn't know about the director, and then she said, "In the fall, when we name him." But given the choice that has so far been on the table regarding the fulfilment of the conditions and the positions of the Council of the Triglav National Park, there is talk about the lady, so I expect her to be the director. I don't believe we've got another circle that's going to turn around so you can name someone with full powers, so I hope you're engaged in this part. I specifically asked you. As I told you, these changes have been published on the e-portal. I asked you about the deadline, because there was an agreement on the boards. I think that all the parliamentary groups agreed to implement these minor changes as soon as possible, but there was no correction published on this portal regarding cycling in the third area. Again, at the time, in the debates in which we have already cleared these things, there was a talk that there was an understanding within the institution or within the Ministry that it was actually incomprehensible that the other area allowed cycling – since the other area was more protected, and more natural protection measures – the third area, which is wider, did not allow cycling. That's not in the novel that's on the portal. This is the direction I've been asking, and I hope to get an answer from you. Thank you, however, if a new body or new director is truly appointed, for this is what the newspaper articles say. Because by 20, it is practically one more week, and since the Ministry is the proposer to the government, I hope that you have already reconciled this to you and that we will finally get someone who will save not least the financial hole you are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u291	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u292	Thank you. I must admit, honourable Member, Mr Daniel Krivec, I too am confused. I don't know who's choosing, who's proposing, who's giving the opinion. What you said today shows that it's you. But it is true that this is my task, of course, and I am aware of it, and I have also honestly said what I said. Whether you like it or not. It is also true that I have honestly told you how this change is, I think, the 10th article, which speaks about the content or the solutions, especially the nature-protection, in the Triglav National Park area. It is true that many of us agree that the fact that cycling in nature is not allowed in the third buffer belt is not logical. But this is how the law was passed, and this illogicality, of course, needs to be corrected. When we wanted to eliminate this illogicality, there were many other requirements that needed to be met when the law was being renewed. And maybe we didn't understand each other, then we said we were going to fix it, and immediately in the autumn, we were going to make these substantive corrections, which had to be carefully thought out, well laid down, and also written in a way that we wouldn't find in a year or two that we wrote down any of the records in such a way that they were insurmountable. The ambitions, the wishes of the local communities, the people are much wider than just that wish you've expressed. Even when we negotiate with local communities, we will find it difficult to find a limit where some solutions will be adopted and others will not. It is also true that the municipalities covered by the Triglav National Park are in their ambitions, in their developmental options, different and possible solutions in the area of one municipality are not acceptable for solutions in the area of another municipality. However, the legal solutions must in some way be acceptable to everyone. Nevertheless, I hope to say that the value of this protected area has increased over the years. It is growing by showing that the visit to these places has already exceeded all expectations in the past. Next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u293	Mr Daniel Krivec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u294	I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we proceed with the Minister's reply to the debate in the National Assembly, as I note that, despite the fact that we are already talking about this whole mandate, virtually nothing has changed. In the light of the answers, however, I hope that we will get the Director or Director on 20 July, so that I will not prejudge anything again. But I didn't get an answer when these minor changes would be made. The answer, which followed why cycling was not allowed in the third zone, which was why the proposal to deal with these minor changes did not satisfy me. I therefore propose that, however, here I agree with the Minister, the most important national park in Slovenia, which is the only one, we hold a debate and that those who accompany it may finally find that a little more proactive in this regard is needed. Because otherwise there will be no more Triglav National Park. Since, as you rightly see, local communities – just as they once did and the National Assembly has also been united in order to change the law – will probably reunite that, given that no one responds to the comments and that we are not able to process any minor corrections in three years, we do not need to process such a park that does not work and does not want to hear any comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u295	Dr. Franz Trcek, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. Matei Vraničnik Erman and Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, chairman. Have a nice hello to you all, to the rest of you behind this walrus! I'll start like this. Of course, we are not just citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, both in the National Assembly and in the executive branch of government, because otherwise we would not be able to perform these responsibilities. We are all an integral part of local self-government, we are still citizens and citizens. Living, coming from some municipalities, with such and different problems and most working hours present in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Regardless of our ideological and political obstacles, we should be in the common interest of what I have repeatedly warned in almost three years of this call that a particular location would not be decisive. What does that mean? That someone who is, I don't know, from the ends – sitting there – from which Mr. Mahnic comes, or from the ends from which I come, or from the ends of the Triglav National Park or from Kopra, New Gorica, then stops, the topping, the logical end would not be deprived because it is there, according to the household. [[…]] If I move on to my question, I must say that I am very much and very faithfully reading the Court of Auditors' audit reports. I also read them because I have to say that this is an organ in this 21st century country – their summaries, their reports are personal, their infographics could also teach the National Assembly and also the executive branch of power. Today's topic is a topic with which, somehow, younger people would say, I am trying to reach both the President of the Government and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, which belongs to the Ministry of Public Administration, which has the most varied substantive tasks. This is the audit report on the financing of the appropriate use of municipalities for the first half of this mandate. So I don't run out of time, I'll be very short. I'm interested in the following facts. I come from this Court of Auditors report, which makes it very clear that the Ministry of Public Administration does not have a record of the tasks whose costs are to be taken into account in setting the average. For 2014, 2015, the Ministry of Finance did not fully comply with the prescribed deadlines and activities. To identify suitable funds for municipalities without data on the quality and effectiveness of implementation. That the Ministry responsible for local self-government does not know the specific basis under which correction factors have been established and could continue. Both ministries have the task of preparing and coordinating systemic legislation in the field of municipal financing. This longer audit report shows that there are major problems here, that there is no proper communication between you. It is even decidedly written that the Government is partially and poorly informed about these matters. It seems to me that this is extremely unacceptable and I expect answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u297	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman and Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I'm a little embarrassed because I don't know exactly what the question is, but I'm going to refer to the Court of Auditors' audit report. The audit report shall indicate the full range of recommendations and requirements for the response report. We're working on it, and we're coordinating solutions. I cannot agree with the statement that there has been a lack of communication since 2014 in this mandate or that we have not tried to coordinate issues relating to the financing of municipalities. True, however, the expectations of the congregations were much higher than those of public finances. This is not unique only at the level of municipal funding, it is actually a situation across a variety of different areas of public spending. Not only because of the Court of Auditors' report, but also because we ourselves have recognized the need for this, we have acceded to the revision of the Rules on the establishment of sub-programmes, which are taken into account for the determination of the average, and the average is in fact closely linked to the appropriate consumption of municipalities. This is now being coordinated or coordinated with the congregations. Unfortunately, I have to rediscover that it will be difficult to reach agreement, given that expectations, what we will add to the mandatory tasks of the congregations are large, while reality is slightly different. However, I hope that we will reach an agreement and that at least in this part we will be able to renew the story. The New Law on the Financing of the Congregations is already in the National Assembly, but more is likely to be the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u299	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u300	Thank you, Madam President, colleague for these words and honourable Member for the question. For a little while. I'm glad you mentioned Mr Mahnich because we come from the same village, and I think we're comfortable there. With regard to the record of the tasks and the findings of the Court of Auditors, I must say that we welcome them because, before the findings of the Court of Auditors themselves, we have already begun to work precisely on these tasks, which the Minister has also mentioned, means on clear terms what are the mandatory original competences of the municipalities and also clear definitions of what those tasks actually constitute a basis for funding. The Law on Community Financing deals precisely with this issue, improves, if I say so, the fairness of funding, that those tasks that actually bring greater burden to the municipalities have actually greater weight in calculating appropriate spending. This is mainly about preschool children and the elderly. And here we're actually changing things. With regard to the very communication between the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance, I must say that this is practically a day. It's hard to say that this is why we're having problems. The Court’s decisions will also help to make it easier to argue the Law on the Financing of the Communities before you and also to ensure that the funds available to us are more clear, transparent and even fairer. As it is said, these are limited to all other consumers of public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u301	Dr. Franc Trček, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u302	Thank you for your word, both of you. Anyway, whatever we're doing, some homework wasn't done. Part of the blame here is also on the mayor's side, some certain, strong. Let's be honest. Part of the blame is that – the next year will be a quarter of a century, which we went into reform of local self-government, which then began in practice in 1994 – after a quarter of a century, even in a more mature and more active parliamentary constitutional democracy would be a time for a thorough reflection and a change and reform of local self-government, which, of course, cannot be done on horruk. Of course, I'm probably more aware than anyone else here, of the former mayors, of the parishioners sitting inside of us 90, of the limits of some resources. But from what you've suggested, from what you're saying, it's clear that we're not actually going far enough in some way. All comparable countries have different ranks of municipalities. Usually they have three, four different pericapitas, per citizen, calculated amounts. Why? Because the scope of the tasks is also different. And of course, someone's about to start bobbing, yeah, we from the more peripheral communities are going to be even less deprived, which is not true in practice, because they have a smaller scope of tasks and actually get some more money in this way, essentially to equalize. For example, one of the Court of Auditors’ comments was also, quote: “The system could better take account of the objective differences between municipalities.” It was very similar to what the Minister for Environment and Space had previously been responsible for. In fact, we are not going into this change, and in particular in this mandate we could go because so many new ones have come into this byte that we are not under the influence of the mayor's lobby. And here you could be Mr Koprivnikar, who you were a good rhetoricalist, the best minister, and you actually fell for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u303	First Minister or Minister? Minister, all right. The word is given by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. I just wanted to point out that, given the current situation in the municipalities, perhaps the Minister of Finance will say more in terms of indebtedness, given the revenue, given the average movement, it would be difficult to say that the situation is not improving. As far as reforming local self-government is concerned. We have also recently adopted a strategy for the development of local self-government, which addresses this particular issue. For all of us, our assignments are the same. Everyone has the same set of tasks, the only problem is that we have municipalities with a few hundred to a few hundred thousand inhabitants. Here is the fundamental difference, and we are also trying to address it in part with legal changes. However, in order to have different ranks of congregations as such, this is the material that should be addressed in the country's core documents and if this material were to be opened up, it is, of course, a question for the National Assembly and for such a political decision. The task of the Ministry of Public Administration is to ensure orderly functioning and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, to ensure stable financing of local self-government, which is only an improvement in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u305	The secretary now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u306	Thank you very much. I can agree that there would be a more thorough reflection on the change in the system of financing local self-government, but, as the Minister has already said, funding is only a consequence of a situation that is being created first. Surely these changes are possible only if not only the state but also the municipalities are prepared for change. And even in this area, we can only find out in many others that we are very reserved for any change in Slovenia. In addition to the Court of Auditors' comments, however, I would like to conclude by saying that, among other things, the Court of Auditors warns or insists on the need to take into account the macroeconomic situation of the State sector, i.e. the fiscal rule, when determining the average, and in this direction, in fact, we have been working with municipalities at the actual level since 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u307	Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u308	I agree that we are somehow being vaccinated against change, but you know, it is the responsibility of policy to consider some systems, to propose changes and to justify these changes. And here we somehow need another new and different policy. A policy that will not just be reset because we know what computer reset means; the same operating system is being restarted. And here this call of the National Assembly, including the derogation of the part of this National Assembly, has unfortunately fallen. I have to admit. I am somehow afraid that there will be no opportunity to reform local self-government in the next reference. In any case, this audit report makes it very clear what I have been basically here for the third year. That in fact we no longer know in this state what the extent of what you throw away by the Government is burned through Parliament to the congregation. Of course, as the English say, it takes two for tea at five. But I come from Maribor. A third of the terms of office were to be discussed by my mayor and the President of the Government, when and how they would meet at all, and they were looking for some reasons who were more guilty of not being able to agree to meet. In response to a question asked a colleague about the Triglav National Park, the minister said, well, we will somehow involve the congregations. In this local government strategy, local government stakeholders will tell you that they have not been sufficiently taken into account, that their comments have not been included at all and so on. Probably, as my favorite author would say, “each witness lies its own truth”, but it is the responsibility of all of us in politics to reconsider these changes and actually go into these changes. After all, it's a little bit of money. We all know that the ageing population costs us and that education costs us. And why are we crushing this money? Why not, after all, centralize this money and leave other assignments to the congregations? Of course, the mayors will go crazy right away, but that would be a responsible policy, and then the municipalities would have that kind of money that might be a little bit developmental, but now, in fact, except for rare exceptions, they hardly have. These are the considerations that we need to reconsider, and that is why I propose a debate, although I fear that the coalition will vote in favour of all of us citizens and citizens. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u309	Dr. Franc Trček, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to question the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the ministers and ministers! Franci, good luck. Minister, you are well aware of this story, which happened on the 5th. 7. in Koroška, where we witnessed the American film hunting of a wild driver. There were no more police patrols involved, the stop was carried out in such a different way, and the man who was probably under the influence of alcohol probably did something else, one police car practically pushed to Drava and thank God these police officers were still alive. They had to shoot the tires, they had to block it, and at the end of the day, when this story ended somehow, it was this, I'll say, a man who was afraid and trembling, went very quietly home. I know that you will not be able to give me any concrete answer because either the investigating judge or the prosecutor is independent, sovereign and so on, but it is a concept of what we will allow in our home country as acceptable. If we're going to allow this as some kind of acceptable behavior to get people like that out of the picture, then I think we've missed the concept. And it's also wrong to actually give some wrong signal, I'm going to tell the young bastards, because I think he's 30, 33 years old, because it doesn't matter. We already have a lot of traffic, a lot of traffic accidents, and a lot of them, as it were said, and it's unacceptable that such a person is nothing to me, nothing to walk you home from. And it looks like these three injured cops were just, I'm going to say, some collateral damage in this story and you can't even see them as being human, and that they were willing to risk their lives to stop this man, because with such behavior he certainly doesn't belong on the road. I'm interested in your opinion: How should we give an adequate message to the public, including people who want to know what is right and what is wrong, and what is wrong with being punished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u311	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u312	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, Members and Members of Parliament, colleague! If your question is an expression of condemnation of such acts, I absolutely welcome it. I personally believe that crimes directed against, for example, the prevention of an official act or the attack on an official, specifically a police officer, must be dealt with extremely strictly. Not because they would be something special, but because they are exposed to such or other dangers in their work. It is generally known that most legal systems, in one way or another, treat infringements or offences, the prevention of an official act or attacks on an official with appropriate severity. I think that the message can also, of course, be given through such a conversation, through such questions or the answer of the Minister, and in this part, of course, I welcome your question. Of course, we are both very well aware that, as Minister of Justice, I will not give any previous prejudices to what has happened, because neither you nor I specifically do not know what has happened. Last week I was officially absent, so I don't know the details, for example, I know from the media, I can't even get the details directly. I do not know whether, in a particular case, a police detention has been determined which may take 48 hours, whether the person has been brought before the investigating judge, whether the prosecution has made a motion for detention or not, or whether the investigating judge has decided. As far as I'm concerned, it's like I don't have that information. [[…]] Even if I had this information, we both know that I could not have been specifically defined to do so unless there was a suspicion of any violation that might require any control in relation to the prosecution or the police. However, I still believe that such a case as has happened will not be without epilogue through the crime, and I believe that the prosecution will continue or begin on the basis of the indictment and later on the indictment. But let's give it time. Under the line, without commenting on a specific event which, as far as I am clear, we both know only from the media, but, of course, the fact that crimes against officials must be dealt with seriously. And by that, I sign every time and every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u313	Mr Matjaž Germany, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I regret that I have to return to the same subject after last autumn, because I am talking about the Academy of Arts of the University of Novi Gorica. Last fall, the media were full of praises when Goriška received the first academy outside Ljubljana after 72 years and the first academy after World War II, in an area where sensitivity is so much greater – I am talking about the western border – and the academy itself is located in Italy's Gorica. It is clear that the Social Democrats are very reserved on such issues when we are talking about granting concessions. Clearly, we advocate a public education that is accessible to all. It is also clear that we are very sensitive to the issues affecting the Western borders; we know that only with the Crommic Agreement are almost 200,000 people, Slovenians, left beyond the border. We are also aware of the European Union's perspective, and therefore we are extremely angry at building good neighbourly relations with the Italian side. I think it's very successful, too. As a representative of this area, I can argue that we have an extremely good relationship. But above all, it seemed important to raise this issue once again because of the awareness of the Government, your ministry, how important it is to maintain the presence of Slovenian life in this area. And of course, the Academy of Arts of the University of Nova Gorica is one of these institutions. Not only does it have a unique programme, it is highly integrated in regional terms, not only cross-border, but also wider. It also has the consent of other academics and universities and is, of course, surrounded by a great interest not only of Slovenian citizens, Croatian, Italian, but also of others. If memory does not deceive me, at first level more than 23% of individuals come from other countries, secondly even more, they listen and learn in Slovenian. I would like to highlight one fact: this is not a private school. It is the University of Nova Gorica, which is owned by two municipalities. Both congregations come from the bitter end, so it is difficult to say that they are of a private nature. In fact, we can call it a non-public university. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: What will be our responsibility, the responsibility of our government, if the operation of this same university that I spoke of will be limited, or even in the next school year will no longer be registered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u315	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u316	Dear President, honourable Member, Mr German, the distinguished one is present! Let me first explain that the University of Nova Gorica is one of the Slovenian universities, but according to the form of legal personality it is not a public university or its founder is not the Republic of Slovenia. You used to refer to the name privately, i.e. privately or publicly. The fact is that the University of Novi Gorica is not a public university, such as the public university in Ljubljana, Primorska and Maribor, which is why, of course, its financing is different from the financing of three public universities, which are based on the public system and, of course, also on the core of public universities, so it has a different approach to obtaining and, of course, also the possibilities of obtaining different resources. Why am I stressing this? The financing of public higher education institutions is precisely defined in Article 72a of the ZVIS, which also defines the way in which all institutions established as public institutions within the Republic of Slovenia are financed. Why the emphasis on that? What is financed through this is the study activity of the regular study for the first and second stages, the study of the related interest activities of students, investment, investment maintenance and national important tasks in the field of higher education, and then the operation, investment and, of course, the maintenance of university libraries. Points 1 and 2 which I have just mentioned are activities financed by the public higher education institutions and private higher education institutions, which have concessional study programmes. This is then the basis for adequate, including public, funding, i.e. funding from the budget if concessions are granted. While the activities in points 3 to 5, i.e. those relating to investment maintenance, library operations and equipment themselves, are financed only by public higher education institutions. The specific situation is, of course, the 6th indent, which is the national important implementation of the activities for national important tasks. There is, however, implementation and funding in relation to the allocated implementation of important tasks by the institution itself, as there are also institutions with the so-called powers of national tasks that differ. The University of Novi Gorica is, despite the establishment of public law entities – since you mentioned that the municipalities are, of course, those who have encouraged and also established this institution – a private higher education institution, its funding is directly from the state budget possible for the first two activities, i.e. those which we grant, these are the study activity of regular study and the study of related activities of interest or the execution of national important tasks where it can also be awarded specifically to the institution at any time. It is therefore very important to distinguish what is a public institution established under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia as a public higher education institution set up by the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, to say that consent is in the first cases of the establishment of a parliament and what are so-called concessional institutions. The University of Nova Gorica, of course, has a special status because it has a private part and a public part directly, which is licensed through the determination of compliance with all accreditation and other conditions and the award of concessions also for the purpose of implementing content that are different, which is nobler, which adds, enrich the higher education space. Since it is an academy, which does not have a concession granted, as you mentioned before, of course, there is a problem in financing and therefore it is also properly managed, managed, of course, also procedurally, to carry out all activities significantly related to the University of Nova Gorica itself, i.e. to its private work or the way in which it manages and manages this work. Therefore, in this case we cannot in any way directly finance the academy itself, although we are well aware of the very importance which you have highlighted, not only of national importance in some way across the border, but also of course of enriching the entire space through the activities carried out by the Academy. However, there is no legal basis for this, and the Court of Auditors rejected it, and in other cases we have a report from the Court of Auditors, so we are also preparing new legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u317	Mr Matjaž German, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I'm sorry I'm not happy with your answer. I understand that you have taken a clear position that does not move in the last year or for a millimeter. But you know, if great people in Slovenian history thought so bureaucraticly, they wouldn't come anywhere. I understand that you can quote me all the reasons why you can't, but tomorrow, when these schools will no longer be in old Gorica, in an Italian mountain where the Slovenian language is present, where the Slovenian people have been present for centuries. Let me remind you that more than a hundred years ago this city was full of the vast majority of Slovenian people, unlike all other nationalities. [[…]] And I'd like to point out one more thing. As a generation delaying its opportunity, I cannot stop fighting for just seeing what the interest is, but not just a formal interpretation of some status. But you know, Madam Minister, a few months ago, news echoed that the Republic of Hungary financed a football club in Lendava. And we know why it was in Lendava, not in Nova Gorica or in Koper. That's what I'm talking about. People's consciousness. How we, as politicians, are responsible for the friendly way in which the European perspective strengthens Slovenian citizens beyond borders. It's our responsibility. Not to stumble into formalism. If we are talking about formalism, then we can ask ourselves what we have done from creation until today to make this school a framework. And once again, it's not a private school, it's a school owned by the Gorgeous congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u319	Please, calm down. Order! Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u320	Just for a little while. I fully understand this situation and, above all, it is important to understand that we need to regulate legislation in a way that is transparent and uniform for all such institutions. Here, as you yourself have mentioned, the Social Democrats also oppose the introduction of concessions, namely the private view of education in general, which means that we will still have to find the right language, but how to act in such entities, which are nationalally crucial in terms not only of conservation, dissemination, placement of, of course, the Slovenian language across borders, but not only of the language, but also of the relevant rich development programmes. Of course, it will also be necessary to face the diversity of views and, in particular, the vision of the implementation of the relevant procedures, which give an appropriate, yet also legal, basis which must be in order to make any payments from the public budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u321	Mr Matjaž Germany, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u322	Thank you very much. As I said in the introduction, it is true, indeed, that the Social Democrats have a certain view that encourages public education – as well as the awareness of the suffering of such a vulnerable area as the Western border – and of these friendly relations that are our common perspective. But given the experience I've had with the ministry lately, it seems to me that this thinking is not going in the same direction. We're facing some bureaucratic obstacle and we're not looking for solutions. I therefore think that this kind of debate could speed up certain processes. What could happen is that next school year that institution we talked about today will no longer be in the autumn. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u323	Mr Matjaž Germany, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u324	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, honourable fellow Members, my question concerns the conduct of the police at the concert I will wear the red star that took place on 29 June in the Congress Square. I was contacted by two citizens who attended this meeting by e-mail. At this meeting we were able to see on one side the flags of the former Yugoslav State, on the other side of the Slovenian state. For the Slovenian Democratic Party, the country of the present and the country of the future is the Slovenian flag, while the country symbolises some other totalitarian times and Yugoslav times. At this meeting, the police dealt with those who had in the hands of the Slovenian flag and peacefully opposed this meeting. Here is an official statement from the lady who also gave it to the police. Quick, let me just summarize something. “We stood behind the police tape, just as we promised the police. Marko Andolšek stood next to me, holding the poster in his hands. We've got a bunch of cops standing in front of us. They were spread out about a metre apart. The other type of police is facing the Red Star. There was about three meters of space in between. One day, I saw a woman with a small figure, with thin hair, standing behind the police a little tight and leaning a little to the left, a little to the right. Suddenly, she jumped among the cops in front of Mark, grabbed the poster and tore it apart. She held a piece of the poster in her hand and tried to escape. Marko shook her hand and grabbed her, and two of Mark's police officers grabbed him with a rough police grip that he was almost on the ground. It looked like he was drowning him with that aggressive grip. The woman was also held by a police officer. I think there were two of them. She was looking at us and laughing disgustingly. Marko just grabbed her because he was defending his class. She broke into our house and attacked Mark. Why did the police let her come to us and why they didn't stop her before she attacked her? I don't know. But now I have here a payment order that Mr Marko mentioned to me. His statement is: "I say that I held a banner on the Congress Square, there's an obvious opponent, under the police tape, and I ripped the banner out of my mouth without saying a word. The woman tried to escape immediately and I grabbed her around her hips and got my poster back. The police jumped in and grabbed me around my neck and pulled me back. Even now, the reception of the police hurts my neck." Let me just remind you of article 160 of the Criminal Procedure Act: “Anyone who is caught in a crime for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official duty may take liberty. It must then be handed over immediately to the investigating judge or the police.” And what did our police find? She gave him a fine of 250 euros by collecting messages from Officer Matjaž Berkopac that a woman had taken away his poster and he began to strangle her and push her away, and he wanted to hit her. That's what they say. Andolšek Marko pushed the woman away and wanted to hit her. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary: How do you comment on police conduct? Since when is it prohibited to wear Slovenian flags at a public meeting in the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u325	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u326	Thank you for your word, President! Dear Member Mahnic! I believe that you understand that ideological debates are not my domain, at least not in this format, so I will rely on the actual situation, as I know, as far as I am aware of it, and take stock of the police's action, and, of course, also in my implementation, the professional, legal and proportionate work of the police. The administrative unit Ljubljana issued a permit for a public event at the Congress Square in Ljubljana, entitled Pevski chorus Pinko Tomažič and Svetlana Makarovič, which later advertised under the title I will wear a red star. On the same day, on 29 June, an event was also held on the market of the Republic in Ljubljana, which was announced as the Celebration of Referendum Signatures. As always, the police have prepared a security assessment and, on the basis of this, also a security plan for both events. I believe that the actual state of play is of utmost importance in answering your question, because we will, of course, cover ourselves in a certain part, and I think that this will also explain what you are asking. At nine o'clock the participants of the event in the Republic Market went to the Congress Market and then to Zvezda Park, where they also started whistles and trumpets to cause noise, but this did not have a direct effect on the event on the platform of the Congress Market. However, given that the actual situation was the same as it was, due to the great danger — that is, from a professional point of view — that a mass breach would occur, the police then temporarily restricted the movement of the police tape and the placement of police officers in a cordon in the middle of the park. This measure has been used to demarcate participants in both events, which you have somehow covered in your presentation of the actual situation. And it is true that at 9:25 a.m., a special police force in front of a police officer ripped out a poster from one of the participants in the event, and he pushed it away and tried to hit it. Police officers of special police units have used coercive means, physical force, and thus prevented further violations and both violators have been issued a payment order pursuant to Article 6(1) of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, so that your reference to the Law on Criminal Procedure is governed by one particular, other matter, not in the first place in this situation that we are talking about. If we continue to explain to the end how this day actually took place. The organizer, Vili Kovacič, was then re-announced by police officers of the police station PP Ljubljana that the event was not taking place according to the application. After warning him, he invited the participants of his event to go back to the market of the Republic, which they also took into account and went back. The police officers of the special police unit then withdrew at 9:40 p.m. and at the same time ended the temporary limitation of movement. During that time, an anonymous phone also received a report that a bomb had been set up. The police investigated everything, but they didn't find any suspicious items. The event due to the announcement has not been disrupted or interrupted, but, of course, a criminal charge will be brought against an unknown offender for the suspicion of a criminal offence using signs of aid and danger under Article 309 of the Penal Code. The congressional market event, attended by about 3,000 people, was conducted according to the programme and ended around midnight. However, the suspicion of the offence led to the identification process for about ten persons. So that's what this is about. I hope that I have been able to explain to you what the police were like and what was actually going on that day.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u327	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer, but please, this time without personal names.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u328	I do not know where it says that personal names should not be mentioned here in Parliament. Madam Minister, you said that ideological debates are not in your domain. I don't know where my debate was ideological. I presented the facts as they were, but I told you what the Slovenian flag is and what the flag of the former SFRJ is. That's, I think, clear. That they've restricted access to the tape. That's how they agreed, as the lady herself said the police told them to be there at the anchor. But you didn't answer my vital question. Since when is it forbidden to wear the Slovenian flag at public meetings? If you have a Slovenian flag at the meeting, if you are wearing a flag of the country, which belongs exactly as totalitarian as the flag of Nazi Germany, you are obviously not engulfed. If you want ideology, Madam Minister, I think the police are here ideologically, as in the case of the Thompson concert ban. That concert was banned because the singer was supposed to have a certain hostile attitude toward foreign nations, specifically Serbian, so they said because of his worldwide opinion. We all know what statements the lady who was the star of the event, Mrs Svetlana Makarovič, has. And here the police did not say that they would ban the event because of its worldwide opinion. Once again, Madam Minister, I don't know why the gentlemen, given that his poster was ripped out – here I am even wondering how the police could have allowed the lady to come by the police and go under the tape; this is said to have been a mistake on the police side – deepened if he had just grabbed her and wanted to hand her over to the police. And once again, why are you so bruised when you're wearing a Slovenian flag in public space?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u329	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u330	Thank you very much, President. Nobody said, except you today, of course, that the fine was imposed for wearing the Slovenian flag. I'm telling you again. Both violators were issued a payment order under Article 6(1) of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which does not refer to the flag of Slovenia. I suggest you read this article and the matter will be a little clearer. As far as specific criminal proceedings are concerned. I believe you understand that I cannot define this because the criminal procedure is led by an authorised official of the criminal authority. Within this procedure, there is a possibility of procedural and material guarantees if the actual situation has been either incomplete or incorrectly identified. This is a matter of legal remedies, and I believe that the persons who have been given payment orders will also take advantage of all these options. Of course, I cannot prejudge the outcome of these criminal proceedings. As far as your other readings are concerned. The public was already clearly explained why this event, the concert you are talking about, was banned. Of course, there can be no ideological reasoning, but the assessment that this intended concert could be used to carry out crimes, which is not allowed under Section 6 of the Public Collections Act, of course. Slovenia is not the first one to have somehow gone this way. Individual concerts of this particular person have already been banned, and it is also possible to conclude that several European countries have already recognised that, on the basis of a security assessment, which is a professional concept, for security reasons, these concerts should therefore be banned.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u331	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u332	The President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that tomorrow's vote be taken to discuss what criteria the Slovenian police have in favour of approving or prohibiting exits, concerts, and, of course, what criteria the Slovenian police have when issuing payment orders for wearing symbols, flags of the home country and of course also foreign countries, including those that are no longer. Madam Minister, I read the police's opinion on the Thompson concert. Let me know what the global visual belief is, if not ideology. It clearly says right at the beginning, “because of the world-renowned belief of the singer Thompson”. That's what the police wrote, so don't say the ban wasn't ideological, because that's what it was all about. And you said that it was explained to the public, yes, of course, I think that the court explained to the public last week when it decided that the ban on the concert was illegal. So the main question is who will answer here, given that we are in the Republic of Slovenia. I suppose no one, but of course, will go to those who have been harmed, I believe, in the lawsuit. I don't know how the police act in this case if someone rips out someone's object, then they take it? Now, I don't know, this is where this cop obviously made up that the guy who was defending his case, then he wanted to hit her again. And then the police will give you both a fine. So, whoever attacks someone and wants to take their property away from them, they take it down, and then they take it down, and then they take it down, and they hold it down, and they hold it down, to hand it over to the cops. In short, unusual police procedures that give clear signs of how police act, what Slovenian police are instructed to do. Not to mention the Defence Inspectorate, which we know how he shares the penalties for wearing symbols, especially the symbols of the Slovenian Army, but of this once again. In short, let's talk about this debate, see what kind of police we have. Above all, it is possible to get a confirmed feeling through the debate or to get rid of it, that the police, in at least such cases as have occurred, either right or wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u333	Mr Jan Mahnic, the Minister of the Rules of Procedure cannot answer. However, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2017, in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, 11 July 2017, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
