ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Anja Bah Žibert, Jelka Godec, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 16.30 p.m., Maruša Škopac, Andreja Potočnik until 11 p.m., Irena Grošelj Kosnik until 13 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Marjana Kotnik Poropat until 13.30 p.m., Violeta Tomić to 16.30, Milan Brglez from 18 h.m., Franc Laj, Alexander Kavčič, Marjan Dolinšek, Jožef Horvat, Uroš Prikl from 16 h.m., Franz Breznik and Tomaž Lisec from 13 h.m. We're moving on to 13. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on amendments to the health protection and health insurance law. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 6 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members of Parliament are the first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin. I'd like you to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u2	Dear Members, Members, good morning, good afternoon! In recent days, we have taken quite a few non-systemic solutions that have been written on just one company or to solve a particular one problem. If I expose yesterday's lex Mercator and the law on the second track is a special law for Magno. All of these were non-systemic laws which in one way or another interfered with the Slovenian business environment. Today we have brought to New Slovenia, I will say, a systematic change to the Health and Health Insurance Act. Why is he actually going and what are we proposing? These are so-called regression claims, such as when a worker is injured and it is found that there may have been a lack of measures concerning safety at work alone. The treatment of this worker can be extremely expensive, long-term and also high costs. These costs can even sink the company, which can also sink more jobs, so in New Slovenia we would like to make the business environment more predictable and bring things into some manageable framework. What are we talking about? In the law, if it is intentional or intentional circumvention of measures that provide greater safety at work, then we do not legalise or expect any mercy from entrepreneurs, and we agree that the whole treatment of these injured workers should be passed on to the costs of entrepreneurs, but that these penalties or regressive claims by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance should be limited to around EUR 15 000. So if a company, a craftsman, were to be harmed by a worker and the inspection found that not all the standards of protection at work had been met, this craft would still be punished, but in all this punishment we are placing in some manageable framework, and this is on a 20-fold minimum pension basis because I said it would amount to around EUR 15 000. If we do so, then it means that craftsmen also have the opportunity to insure such potential threats and unpredictabilitys in different insurance companies, making the business environment more predictable again. If we were not to think about it, I would like to point out two concrete examples. Four years ago, a worker was injured at work in a company dealing with mechanical installations. The employee was tested for protection at work and was taught about all the devices he used, but the accident was due to the negligence of the worker who fell over the lower wall. The company received a regression claim of more than EUR 70 000. It must pay all the costs incurred in the treatment. The next thing that is even more absorbing in the sky is an entrepreneur, a singer who was involved in painting or fasader activities, also received a regression request of €75 000. In performing painting works he fell off the ladder, then he was even more than a month in a coma and now, of course, he is receiving a disability pension of EUR 400, and the ZZS is demanding 75 000 euros as a regression request for this treatment. According to our assessment, these things need to be placed within manageable frameworks and also introduced — for those who may hear more about this word on the left hand side — a little more solidarity in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Ana Medved, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia fully opposes the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which amends the fundamental principle of compensation law in order to compensate the person who caused the damage at the level caused. In our opinion, the bill also opposes the basic principles of the Law on Safety and Health at Work and also interferes with the fundamental obligations of the Labour Relations Act. The current regime is based on the fundamental principle of compensation law in order to compensate for the damage at the level caused by it. The draft law does not follow the principle mentioned above, as it proposes that the CFSP should have the right to request the employer's caused harm only when the disease, injury or death of the insured person was caused by the employer's intention or serious negligence to suspend the implementation of safety or health measures at work, appropriate hygiene sanitary measures or other measures prescribed or designated for the safety of persons. Furthermore, the proposal further limits the employer's responsibility by proposing to limit the amount of damage caused in the event of gross negligence to the 20th timer of the lowest pension base. The compensation obligation is of a civil nature and therefore its purpose is not to punish the responsible person, but to establish the situation prior to the occurrence of the damage. Therefore, the primary function of compensation law is to eliminate the unfair situation in which the injured person was found, that is to say, in eliminating his deprivation, in this case of damage. This is a so-called compensatory or repatriation function of compensation law. The draft law follows only partially the principles of compensation, when the disease, injury or death of the worker, i.e. the insured person, is caused by the intentional abandonment of the implementation of safety or health measures at work, appropriate sanitary measures or other measures prescribed or designed for the safety of persons. It limits liability in the event of gross negligence and it is important that it forgets the liability for compensation in the event of light negligence, even in spite of the fulfilment of the general assumptions of civil delinquency, i.e. unlawful conduct, damage, causation and guilt. Here I would like to point out that, if the employer complies with the rules on safety and health at work, the CFSP does not have a legal basis for the enforcement of regressive claims in case of an accident at work. Therefore, the current arrangement in the CFSP also expresses a secondary, therefore preventive, function of compensation liability. The proposed solution reduces the importance of existing legislation on safety and health at work if not even eradicates. The drafter proposes that the employer should not be liable for damage if the disease, injury or death of the insured person is due to the failure to carry out safety or health measures at work and the employer is unaware of the possibility of damage, but should be aware of and aware of the circumstances and personal characteristics of the worker. This means that, in the field of safety and health at work, the standards of employer responsibility would be substantially reduced, while such arrangements would be contrary to other principles of protection at work laid down in Article 5 of the Law on Safety and Health at Work and the determination of the employment relationship that determines that the worker is subordinate to the work process. Indeed, the employer is a professional in a particular activity and must be aware of all safety measures and therefore be subject to stricter criteria than the average person. In view of all the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reiterates its support for the proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin, as the proposal for a law opposes the rules of employers' compensation, the rules of protection and health at work and the obligations of employers arising from the labour relationship itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. That's a good-bye to all of you! For the third time, the proposed amendment to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance introduced an almost identical text of the bill into the parliamentary procedure. Thus, for the third time in our Group of Members, we have been reiterating the arguments that we will not support the proposal this time as well. In the Desus Group, we still believe that the novel proposal largely unties the employer’s responsibility when a worker’s injury, illness or death occurs, as it is called in the law. This is unacceptable to our Group of Members this time as well. In Desus, we are committed and will continue to advocate for a clearly defined responsibility of the employer, who must invest in the health of his employees by ensuring consistent protection at work and providing favourable working conditions, which ultimately leads to greater satisfaction in the workplace, a lower disease, a smaller number of injuries at work, a reduction in the hospital stock and also greater productivity. The proposal before us is going in the opposite direction, as we provide it in our parliamentary group and party. While we can see in the proposal of the novel that the employer would be obliged to pay for the damage caused in any form whatsoever only in cases where it was caused by severe negligence on the part of the employer or where it was caused on purpose. At this point, we are still asked how to prove to the employer that, for example, it was for a great deal and not for a minor negligence or that it was caused on purpose. This time, too, I cannot pass the mention of known practice when the worker is usually blamed for accidents at work. It is rare for employers to be held responsible for the accident. In the course of both previous discussions on the proposal, we have expressed our view in our Group that the proposal clearly protects the stronger side, i.e. the employer, at the expense of the worker's safety, which, in relation to the employer, is generally weaker and in a subordinate position. The motioner did not listen to our concerns, which is evidenced by the almost identical content of the law. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal for a new law sets the economic interests of employers high above ensuring the protection and health of workers, so in our group, we will also oppose this proposal for a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As we have already heard several times today, for the third time we have been talking about the New Slovenia proposal, which touches on regressive claims. As last time in the Group of Members, we will not support this proposal for exactly the same reasons as we did a few months ago. Again, again, third time. The proposal follows the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce, once again unilaterally and beyond the agreement to amend the area of compensation claims by limiting the liability of employers. The NSI therefore reiterates its proposal that the employer's liability should be acceptable only if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence, in cases where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of light negligence. Moreover, the claim for damages is limited to 20 times, if it is a matter of great negligence, and is limitless if the damage is intentionally caused. Indeed, employers expose the manna of the ceiling for compensation and also that there is no distinction between whether any damage was caused by negligence or negligence, which they consider to be a heavy burden, especially for small businesses and craftsmen. On the other hand, it refers to us with a counter argument that, if we were to limit the amount of regression claims, so would the damage caused by the employer by his inappropriate conduct and that he would exceed a certain limit, burden the health treasury and thus solidarity of all contributors, i.e. those employers who consistently and exemplaryly implement all safety and health measures at work. Employers point out that these claims may endanger their business and require that employers and employees share responsibility for injuries at work. The health insurance company does not check the liability of employees for injury in the workplace, and employers can prove the worker’s guilt in the judicial proceedings. Nor can employers be able to protect the risk associated with the regression claims from commercial insurance companies because they do not offer these services. As regards this content, the other party points out that the purpose of the regression claims is to reimburse the resources paid for the guilt of someone else, in the event of damage at work from the employer who has infringed or abandoned measures to ensure the safe work of workers, adding that the regressive claims even force employers to take care of the working environment and protect workers from threats. The application shall be made only after the occurrence of a work accident where the rules of protection at work have not been complied with when the employee’s duty to protect is waived. This is the third time that we have therefore rejected the law because it is harmful, contrary to the fundamental principles of the protection of the employee and contrary to the fundamental principles of the protection of human health and safety at work and means the reduction of existing rights. On the basis of this, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. The content of this proposal is simple. Christian Democrats propose reducing the costs of employers, at the expense of reducing the safety of workers. In addition to fines for offences, compensation is one of the forces for employers to ensure safety at work. Labour inspection data show that all these forces are not sufficient to increase safety at work. Although there were a few fewer fatalities last year, general trends continue to go downhill. The inspection also notes that the number of infringements has also increased in 2016. In doing so, disproportionately many deaths usually occur in small and micro-enterprises, which New Slovenia particularly wants to exempt. Given that the number of espouses and micro and small enterprises is steadily increasing, it is clear that compensation is not an obstacle to entrepreneurship. This proposal therefore does not solve any real social problem, so one wonders why the party with the kobayagi best economic programme of all possible measures has been proposing exactly this lame law for the third time. Of course, the NSI voters should answer this question. The socialists' views on safety at work are, of course, different. The most immediate problem is lack of work inspectors. We already have 206,000 business entities and, on the other hand, the number of work inspectors is constantly decreasing. The end of last year was 78, of which only 31 were in charge of safety at work. In short, safety at work is getting worse, and all governments have been responsible since 2008 that have literally suffered from the labour inspection. First the government of Borut Pahor, then Janez Janša, and Alenka Bratušek, the current government of Mir Cerar. Unfortunately, this problem does not touch the general membership of the National Assembly at all. In the United Left, we have tabled an amendment at each budget to raise labour inspection funds. No one supported him. We have tabled an amendment to the Labour Inspection Act to increase inspection powers, and you have also rejected this by Members. Last year, when the inspectorate finally banned the holiday work in the media houses, the ministry approved the employers' complaints. It is clear from this that the political class does not support the prosecution of violations of labour law, with any kind of sweet words, although it serves the public of Slovenia. Therefore, it is not surprising that the cases of the Marof Trade type are multiplying and the labour inspectors are either demoralising or even abandoning the inspectorate, which is, of course, a logical consequence. Why would an inspector expose himself and risk his head in the pursuit of port service providers in Luka Koper, for example, if he saw all governments allow this criminal exploitation peacefully? To improve the situation of the working class, we need a radical social policy that I can summarize in three points. Firstly, we need to strengthen the inspection services, let's say with the 12 million euros that will cost the permanent installation of the Slovenian Army in NATO's operation in Latvia. Secondly, we have to radically raise the minimum wage, because the best penalty for illegal abusers is bankruptcy. Thirdly, we need to provide decent social benefits to all unemployed so that they do not have to tolerate the exploitation regime in various IPS and Marof traditions. In short, we need to stop all the workers living from social dumping and finally get all these people to where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues! The answer to the key question why Nova Slovenija has prepared a novel of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is indeed in hand to ensure justice. In a fairer way, in Nova Slovenija we want to regulate the regression claims that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in case of injury at work or occupational illness applies from the employer. On the other hand, with nothing to stress, we do not in any way undermine the safety of workers in this proposal or reduce the responsibilities of employers. Regret claims or claims for damages arising from an accident at work or occupational disease may be lodged against persons responsible for the damage caused under Slovenian law both by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. The obliging code of the Republic of Slovenia defines compensation liability as an obligation of an individual to remedy damage to the occurrence for which it is responsible and which arises only if four conditions are met. First, unacceptable behavior, secondly, damage, causation and then as a last resort. Indemnity liability for health insurance is more precisely regulated by the Health and Health Insurance Act. The ZZS therefore has the right to claim compensation from the employer, i.e. the amounts paid if the injury, illness or death of the worker is due to the failure of the employer to take appropriate measures for the safe working environment and the safety of persons. New Slovenia's proposal regulates employers' claims for compensation in such a way that they are responsible for injury at work and occupational disease only in the event of serious negligence, while in other cases the costs would be reimbursed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, where employers pay their contributions. The purpose of such an arrangement, respected colleagues and valued colleagues, is therefore to regulate safe and particularly healthy work, to prevent injuries at work and occupational diseases and to ensure social security for those who are injured at work or who suffer from occupational disease at the same time in a predictable legal and business environment that endangers the existence of a cause of injury. To the Christian Democrats, we, therefore, feel that the current legislation is unfair mainly to a small employer, who is in fact responding indefinitely in this case. It is said that even with their personal property, independent entrepreneurs are responding, even though the harmful income with high material damage has been caused by some small oblivion of an obligation that can only be attributed to a little negligence, and there may be various, including family tragedies. And such cases, truly, respected colleagues, we have a great deal in Slovenia. Indemnity contributions can therefore jeopardise the business of some employers, especially those who are economically weaker, small and medium-sized. Nor can employers be able to protect the risk associated with the regression claims from commercial insurance companies because they do not offer the service at all. And here is the key or very important question why insurance companies do not want to enter the area of this market. Why won't they? The answer is simple. Because this indemnity, that is, unlimited upwards, is essentially unlimited and insurance companies do not want to take that risk. In Novi Slovenija we therefore propose that the employer's responsibility is only if there is a occupational illness, injury at work, injury at work or death due to severe negligence on the part of the employer or intentionally, while in the event of low negligence, the regression claim is not enforced. Why not? Because all employers pay a contribution of 0.53% for injuries at work and occupational diseases in compulsory health insurance. These revenues are spent on financing all health programmes, not just what is one of the major shortcomings. So this program that would go for professional diseases or for petty negligence. Employers' liability for compensation under the proposal for the amendment is limited to 20 times if the damage is caused by serious negligence and unlimited if the damage is intentionally caused. Therefore, the restriction is that in individual cases the existence of a cause of injury, especially of small and medium-sized employers, is not jeopardised, since it does not allow for their stable and predictable operations. Therefore, we believe that such a proposal, as proposed by Nova Slovenije, constitutes a fairer burden sharing among all stakeholders, and therefore this law certainly deserves support if we are to improve the business environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the law before us today is to regulate compensation claims for injuries at work. The proposal before us would give the employer responsibility and thus payment only if it was a matter of serious negligence, and in other cases the costs would be reimbursed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. There is no doubt that safety at work needs to be taken care of, but it is responsible for the fact that the Chamber of Commerce has long warned us that the employer's liability for compensation is particularly problematic if he is acting as a sole entrepreneur, as he is responsible for his business obligations also with all his assets. We can probably imagine what a larger compensation claim might mean for a smaller independent entrepreneur. As I have already said, the proposal or initiative of the Chamber of Commerce has been on the table for a long time and it is right to discuss possible solutions, even for the third time in this mandate. However, I certainly do not want the proposal that we have on the table today to sound like a reduction in safety at work. This too has been said many times today, unfortunately, and according to my and our estimates, this is not true. Safety at work must be taken care of equally and with equal responsibility. Whether the proposed solution is the best and the most just, I don't know, but the proposal on the table is an opportunity to discuss, discuss and try to solve the problems that entrepreneurs face. Since we believe that the problem addressed to colleagues in New Slovenia needs to be resolved, we will support the law today, if it comes to it at all, unfortunately it will not, and we also expect answers to certain questions that are on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Vlasta Počak will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The New Law on Health Care and Health Insurance has been introduced by the New Slovenia Group for the third time in the National Assembly, despite the fact that, at the first reading of the proposal and later on, it has proved to be not the most optimal and appropriate solution, despite the good intentions. The applicant seeks to regulate the area of employers' claims for damages in cases of injury at work. It is a request for reimbursement of the costs of treatment which the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance may require from one which is intentionally or negligently causing health damage to employees. In the case of various forms of injury at work or occupational disease, the employer is usually responsible, which also assumes liability under the bond and compensation law. This is, of course, not automaticism in the sense that it also means that the employer is guilty of compensation, and it is often very difficult in the process of determining the responsible person whether any damage was caused by negligence or by chance. Employers point to the grey field in the labour law system, which needs to be properly regulated. We believe that the employer must, in any event, comply with the applicable legislation in the field of protection at work and must do everything in its power to ensure safety and health at work unconditionally. If, in terms of safety at work, the employer has all the measures, such as the safety statement for risk assessment, the pre-health checks of the staff, if the workers have a safety test at work, if the employer teaches them from the outside, gives guidance on measures to ensure protection at work and so on, it should also be taken into account that an accident may have occurred by accident or is the responsibility of the worker himself. Although these cases of serious negligence are relatively small, employers point out that, in the case of regressive claims, the cost recovery may be so high that it can jeopardise the company’s survival, which is particularly true for smaller economic operators. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the area of compensation claims in the event of the employer's liability deserves a search for solutions under the existing legislation, but unfortunately the proposal we are considering today is not well placed and will not be supported in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Both the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service point out that the proposal is contrary to the fundamental principle of compensation law, which states that the cause must be compensated in the amount caused or in the way of establishing the previous situation. The proposal also threatens the protection of a weaker customer in relation to the employer – a worker where the employer already has a number of obligations under the applicable legislation to ensure safe and healthy work. Finally, it should be borne in mind that the adoption of such a solution, contrary to the applicant’s assessment, would have significant effects on the public funding collected by the Slovenian Health Insurance Office on the basis of the contributions collected. The decommissioning of these funds from the health register would mean less money for health care, which would indirectly harm all citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u18	Your Honor! The Health and Health Insurance Act provides that the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia may apply a claim for compensation in the event of work injury from those who intentionally or negligently cause health damage to the insured person. Thus, from the employer, if the disease, injury or death of the insured person was caused by the failure to carry out appropriate sanitary measures, occupational protective measures or other measures prescribed or designated for human safety. In particular, the law highlights the responsibility of employers if the employer does not provide real data or if it intentionally violates legislation. The provisions of the law also relate to the liability of an employee in the event of an offence committed. However, it is also established that the institution has the right to demand that all the damage caused be reimbursed by the employer. According to existing legislation, such compensation claims may jeopardise the business of certain employers. This is mainly the case for economically weaker employers, says small and medium-sized enterprises, because they cannot be insured in commercial insurance companies because these insurance services are not actually offered by insurance companies. In view of the changes and additions to the law, it is only proposed that the employer should be liable for compensation only if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence. However, if the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of ease of care, the employer shall not be liable. The proposed solution therefore excludes the employer's liability in the event of his ease of negligence and limitation of liability when the damage is caused by the worker's negligence. The employer would therefore answer if the damage was done on purpose or if it was serious negligence. However, light negligence would be a burden of compulsory health insurance, where employers pay a special contribution to injuries at work or occupational diseases. In its opinion on this point, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has stated that it opposes the amendment of this Act, as it changes the fundamental principle of compensation law, which provides that the damage caused by it is reimbursed. It is true that the employer must in all respects ensure the safety and health of workers in relation to work, but it is known that employers and workers face unforeseen circumstances in their work that are not under the control of employers and workers. Sometimes such events cannot be avoided. For example, the worker is under severe pressure to achieve his norm, which, of course, is also partly stressed and somewhat overlooked in his work process, causing so-called easier negligence at work. So in this case, he's going to be a punished employer. However, when it comes to serious injury at work, which causes permanent consequences, disability, or even death, the cost of treatment can be greatly increased. The worker's absence costs are also high, which can last for several months, and such a request can reach up to €80,000 and more and, in the event of disability, a life pension. Such requests may endanger the business of the company, especially the liability of individual entrepreneurs as they are responsible for the obligation to operate with all their personal property. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes the amendment of the law concerning the limitation of the amount of damage caused in the event of gross negligence to the 20th timer of the lowest pension base. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that the current solution for determining the level of liability of compensation left to the court is correct. But we know what's going on in our courts. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance states in its letter to this point that anyone who causes harm to another is obliged to repay it if it does not prove that the damage occurred without its fault, as it deters the wrong conduct of the worker or employer by threatening to pay compensation. This raises the question of how many such cases there are for employers or workers to cause damage on purpose. Of course, the health insurance agency does not provide information in its writings on whether it records cases of intentional mistreatment and how many of these cases are there, if of course they are. I don't think there's much of a case like this. Mistreatment is mostly due to ignorance, in an increasing number of cases due to overcrowding of workers. In its letter to this point, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance also states that the regressive notes account for an inflow of 1.2 million in 2013, 1.4 million in 2014 and 1.2 million in 2015. Interestingly, the Ministry of Health, in response to the question raised by its colleague Mahnič, answered the following questions: "With regard to the business report of the Health Insurance Institute in 2014, this had a revenue of EUR 20 million for regression claims. The Health Insurance Office has data for each debtor separately but does not have the data collected according to the status form.« End of quote. Of course, the question now arises as to which data to believe or why data is not able to understand the influx of regression claims. And, of course, the next question is why there is no data on how many injuries there are due to intentional misconduct by the employer or the worker. We will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, proposer. Get Mrs. Ludmila Novak ready. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u20	First of all, I would like to thank the SDS Group of Members of Parliament, or Mrs Alenka Bratušek, who understood what we are proposing with this law and why we insist on these things. Some of you made fun of me and stressed the fact that we've been investing for the third time. Obviously we are very grounded and we see in Slovenia what is going on and what are the problems. Since it's probably a wall-to-wall thing to talk about marriage solutions, I'm going to try to present to the Members at least specific things that I hope they'll be a little distracted by their decision to vote against this law. It is interesting that even some members of the coalition acknowledge in the corridors that this is a problem when they have the opportunity to solve these things and head to table as if nothing had happened. I can give you an example of a company that deals with machine installations. This company comes from the ends where Member Škoberne is home. What happened? That's where the worker fell over the wall and got hurt. What did this worker have to do? Of course, he had a health check, he had a safety test at work, he was taught about all the devices he worked with, and he also had security equipment provided, and yet the accident happened and the ZZS demanded that this company be reimbursed for the cost of treating this worker. One case. The second example, here, should be addressed mainly by socialists, the United Left and others who say that you are very disturbed by what you are doing — even by me. And this is where we're talking mainly about espouses. Most likely you have already met with some painter, according to the local word, more Slovenian painters or fasader, many of them are independent entrepreneurs. Also, one of the independent entrepreneurs who provided these services happened to fall off the ladder. This fall was so severe that he was in a coma for more than a month, and after he woke up, he couldn't reconstruct the events. But the important thing is that the ZZZ made it clear that he didn't have a properly fixed ladder. Those who get to know this job probably know that if you dance, the ladder has to be moved all the time, because otherwise it doesn't work. You can't get her into the ground or the wall. This injury was so severe that this individual retired with disabilities, and today he is receiving EUR 400 of disability pension, while the ZZZ demands EUR 75,000 to pay back all the damage they suffered with treatment. Dear socialists, representatives of the working people, where is your justice, correctness, solidarity now? This man, of course, because he was an espouse, also responds with all his belongings. Don't forget that. Where's the sense of man now? Specific cases because clearly they don't depend on the word on paper. If, of course, you do not believe me or the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, please contact the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where I am sure they will be very happy to present these specific cases to you, the cases of their members, the problems they face. And where the point is now – and if you want it, not only is the case that is not fair now, it is disproportionate. For a smaller company, a regression claim, or a claim for reimbursement of the costs of treatment of EUR 75 000, EUR 70 000, does not mean only a disaster for the owner of this company, the employer, but it can also mean that the company is failing to destroy two, three, and up to five jobs. In order for the country to be at least smart enough to apply a principle of proportionality here so that businesses do not sink because all those employed in this company pay contributions and taxes. These people are paying for health care, pension bills, buying goods, paying VAT, all this goes into the budget. In the views of the parliamentary groups, there was one such winter obvious that this law reduces safety at work and that this means that these capitalists will now rot, business owners will be able to exploit workers even more and that they will care even less about safety at work. Well, please, come on! Let's think of a better argument against. This law does not speak in a single sentence of any way of reducing standards of safety at work. We do not weaken standards for better safety at work by this law or by a millimeter. Not for a millimeter. I don't know where you're getting your security back. And we don't untie employers' responsibilities or untie them if that happens, but we put it all together in some manageable framework. I'll be very clear. We've classified this into three forms, let's say that there's a lack of safety at work. If it is a matter of minor negligence, if it is a matter of greater negligence, another matter, and if it is an intention to do so. And I'm going to be plastic again, and I'm going to use again what that would mean. A slight negligence would mean that, say, the employer did not provide the workers with enough quality gloves and that their hands or fingers were damaged as a result. That would have been our estimate of a minor negligence. A greater negligence would be our assessment that the employer, for example, inadvertently insured the construction site and that resulted in a larger accident. And the third thing is slander, and these are the worthless exploitative barabs that literally force workers to work unprotected and in inappropriate circumstances. Three levels, three types of violations. This law, which we are proposing today, provides for the punishment of employers in all cases. In all three cases. Therefore, it is not true what some people say that this obliges employers to untie business owners to take care of safety at work. Let's go in one order. We propose that, if there is less negligence, it is that, for example, we do not provide real gloves or real shoes to the worker, we propose that the treatment or treatment costs of injuries are covered by the funds that employers are already paying, namely 0.53% of the salary, and this is charged to a special fund and according to the data we have gathered into this fund about €70 million, that is what employers are paying into this fund. We propose that from this fund, which is now being spent by the ZZZS and also by the Ministry inadvertently for other things, even though this item on our salaries is written for the injury at work and for the disease. So, for a little bit of negligence, we suggest that he hides himself from this fund. If this is a matter of greater negligence, in terms of, I do not know that the construction site was not properly secured or that it did not have adequate protective equipment for workers at all, we propose that this entrepreneur, who did not provide it in accordance with the safety standards at work, be punished, say, up to €15 000. This is kind of the limit that we set, or 20 times the minimum pension base. So it's not just about the employers being forgiven, but we're just setting a limit. And if the limit is set, of course, this will mean that employers will be able to secure these matters in insurance companies, and in this way we will somehow create a more predictable business environment that they already have in our northern neighbours. Just to make sure that no one thinks we're special here, in Slovenia. Now we get to the toughest, thirdest, form. And that's up to the bare exploitation of the workers. Here we do not foresee any mercy in this law. For these exploiters and for those who force workers to work in totally inappropriate circumstances, there is no limit for these, and it is justified that the ZZS may require full amounts to the cost of treating this injured or sick worker. No mercy. And I ask you, as you continue to debate and criticize this law today, to now state where there is such a great danger that standards or safety at work will only deteriorate. Where do you see this? I have clearly divided that in all three cases the employer pays. However, it seems fair to me that we should do things in this way more justly, as we have talked about today, was spoken of by my fellow Member, Vrtovec. More rightly, if it is a minor matter, to pay for money already imposed for this purpose in some way, if it is a larger matter for the penalty to be determined or the reimbursement of these costs up to EUR 15 000, but if it is a matter of naked exploitation, there is no limit. There is one more thing I must add to this, because it is likely that Ambassador Murgel will warn me about this because I am using the term of punishment a little so frequently. Of course, those lawyers who stick to these things will say that this is not a punishment, but a cost recovery. Yeah, they're right, they're all right, but for better understanding, I'm using a more familiar term, in the sense that if an accident was caused, if a worker got sick, he got hurt, the employer in this way is covering these costs. Just because we are a parliamentary group, and let's say, the competitive advantage of small parliamentary groups is that we have the opportunity to walk in Slovenia. I believe that the parliamentary group of 36, 35 Members is difficult to walk in Slovenia, to visit institutions, businesses, institutions, but we as a small group can afford it. Practically a month goes by when we do not make a field visit and when we find out about such specific cases on field visits. The craftsmen are asking us to do something. And that's also why we came here for the third time with this law to get things to some normal European level. I hope that at least the third goes well and that you will not claim so much that at first reading this law will be stopped if it is inappropriate for further consideration. The law is appropriate, but if you have better solutions, of course, with words per day. But if this seems fair and fair to you to sink singers and craftsmen, and to be a social problem, say it out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u22	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! It's true. This is the third time we've filed the same law. Why? Because we just feel like we need to fix this problem. After the second hearing, the second time we introduced the law and listened to your debates and accusations of how we are against workers, against security, how we protect the exploiters and so on, I said that we would no longer file this law, because I can no longer listen to it. But when I heard specific cases again, and these specific cases were also discussed by you, my fellow Members, when we went on the road with the delegation, we went to Celovec once to Vienna, specifically talking about problems that happened to your friends or acquaintances. I know who was talking about it, I won't be named, and that's when I said, "Do you remember that we made a law that would solve this problem, and you didn't even know we proposed it?" So I'm going to repeat once again what my first-signed colleague, Matthew Tonin, explained in detail. When we visit entrepreneurs when we talk to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, they point out that many independent entrepreneurs are afraid of hiring workers because they are too threatened or because they cannot be protected enough for such accidents. That's why they don't want to hire anyone. Who wants his employee to get hurt? I don't know who enjoys it, but I don't think there are any. But disaster never rests, and an accident can always happen, even if they predict everything, but we can never predict everything. We know that if we look after a little child, we can look after him like that, and he can roll over and hurt us somewhere, because it's impossible to predict everything. Employers are already paying for accidents, i.e. for accidents at work, 0.53% of gross wages. So they're already paying. And we suggest that the smaller things in this fund are then paid, if they are already paying. Then why are they paying? And secondly, if there is a slight increase in negligence, which was not intended to limit this amount to around EUR 15 000. Do you imagine that someone, a small independent entrepreneur, has to pay $70,000 or more? It's one apartment! This is not only a threat to the existence of his company, but also to the family, as a result, we may have some social problems. But if he was deliberately demeaning, he must make things right. So we're not protecting anyone, but we're protecting cases that happen casually, and that's why we don't have to destroy the individual, the company, or even the whole family. Where's solidarity here? And my colleague Kordish, who speaks so vehemently about exploiters, said it was a lame marriage, and he would put those who were in prison. So someone who didn't sit at home waiting for social assistance, but opened up his company, worked, paid contributions, hired someone else, he would put him in jail. And he gave everyone universal basic income, but the question is, who will work for it? Someone has to create this. I am not saying that this law is ideal and everything is supposed to be and is the best, but that is why we have the first treatment where we expose problems, where we see possible solutions, and then we can finish the law. I don't want that to happen to anyone, but remember when you meet a friend, a acquaintance, a coworker, maybe a relative in a situation like this again. Here I have a feeling it's just a political calculation. There are many fewer employers because you are fighting for workers, and we are also fighting for workers to have jobs to have jobs, but someone has to provide them with these services. These are employers. We no longer have large companies that employ several thousand workers, but thank God we have many small, small, family-based companies that also employ workers. And this one even dominates. Therefore, let us also consider that employers are not exploiters. Those who are and do not pay contributions should be caught by the State and prevented this from happening again, but if someone creates, he works instead of waiting for social assistance, and he gives work to others, and he is worthy of all respect. Unfortunately, in our country, we burn too many of them and even consider them enemies of the country. That's very sad. In New Slovenia we fight for those who are responsible, the workers who want to create something, we fight for such people. However, those who cannot afford to exist are, of course, paid for social assistance, scholarships, pensions, and so on. Dear fellow Members, Members, consider that this is not about reducing security, but it is about reasonable proposals, including solidarity with those who work and create.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am sorry that we have to stress again and again what our economy, family enterprises need, we must repeatedly stress that they need to be heard in an area that is not actually competitive, which does not give small craft the same rights as some large companies that have the opportunity to have certain cases secured. However, I would like to say one very specific case. Soboplesska hired a young boy, and he didn't know what the trouble was. He had problems with certain matters, and he was simply tired of coming to work every day. This guy went dancing on a ladder. And what happened? He fell asleep on this ladder. Good thing the employer noticed him, of course he saw what time it was, and he sent this boy home and, of course, he canceled. But would he now be a bit sloppy or less reckless or less casual if there was a case that this boy fell off a ladder because of his work, because he had some problems? Who's being careless here now? And now, if such a case were to happen, this employer would be punished — here we have a case — with 70,000 euros. Let us be realistic and listen to what is happening in real life as well. What we are proposing is no reduction of rights for workers, far from it. It is only here that we treat all legal entities in this country equally. All legal entities. Because if such negligence occurs or such a mistake occurs in a minor craftsman and such a mistake occurs in a larger company or even in a public administration, they are completely different. Isn't it? Completely different treatments. There everything goes on the shoulders of a self-employed craftsman, an entrepreneur, proven to be guilty, sought fault, and, on the other hand, easily if he is employed in a public undertaking, he can still, I don't know what he does, is secured through an insurance company and has all the rights under this title. We want nothing more in Novi Slovenija than to balance all legal persons in the Republic of Slovenia with these rights. However, there are still cases where for an entrepreneur to take on greater risks in this country, the laws are different — how much longer? I'm just wondering how much longer we're going to take them as some other legal entity than someone else. You know, fellow Members, you know for yourself that there are cases in your vicinity where some craftsmen have to pay for such a mistake. I have a case in front of me. Four years ago, a worker was injured at work in a company dealing with machinery installations. The employee was tested for protection at work and was taught about all the devices he used. But the accident was due to the negligence of a worker who fell over a lower wall. Very similar to what would soon happen to that craftsman. The company received a regression request from ZZZS worth more than EUR 70 000. The case is still in court. It must pay all costs, from bandages, hospitals, supplies to transport costs. Even the police and the company director came into the company with a criminal complaint. As a result of the criminal complaint, the company is no longer able to participate in the public tendering process, although it is not the director who is responsible for the accident. How long will we divide people into those who can be given something, and those who are actually enemies, so they used to be enemies of the nation. I think that the first step towards equalising the rights of all legal persons, all legal entities in the country, is to regulate this in this case. Then we can talk about the social state that we all want to have, about public health, which we all want to have, but we all have to be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I would also like to point out that I do not understand the representatives of the United Left who should be the main advocates of the working people, especially before the holiday of work, which will be celebrated so much. That they do not see the pressures or problems faced by certain workers and by employers. Even self-employed craftsmen are not capitalists, but are workers who serve themselves and pay contributions and taxes to the state. We've got car insurance where you're protecting your car, where your insurance company will pay you back even if you're guilty. You just can't be under the influence of some illicit substances or alcohol, and the insurance company pays you back because you pay for that insurance. Entrepreneurs also pay for a fund where 80 million funds are raised annually for this purpose, but if possible, this money is spent for something other than the basic purpose. We have a series of parts where you just can't be competitive if you take into account all the security measures that are defined by different rules. Those of us who have ever been responsible, the leaders of the work, are very aware. Even when I was under 20 years in charge, later, when I was in the military, I thought about what would have happened if I had injured one of the fitters who worked at a height, because we simply couldn't follow all the rules, all the protection criteria, because we would have spent more time editing, a few times more time editing a safety net than just editing. There were no baskets back then, just like they are now, when the workers are protected. Or work is done outside these baskets because you can't make everything out of the basket. Sometimes, even in such weather conditions, when we should never have done it, we had to do it because of deadlines, because of the damage that would have been done. I was aware that if someone got hurt, we could get a prison sentence by law by a year and a half, but we took that risk several times. Even if all the conditions are met, something can happen. Just yesterday at Odessa, an accident on a ship in the middle of the ocean, where all the rules were followed, safe and everything, just happened. There was an explosion, two of them died. They may be next time, although all the upstairs employees have been to some extent qualified to offer first aid, especially officers, but secondly, I do not know if the regulations will require that each ship still have a helicopter with it, so that it can take the injured person to the hospital at any time or anything. Well, it happens. We talked about road traffic accidents that each death is worth about a million 800 000 euros. And it can happen that someone sues the employer for a million 800,000 euros. I am convinced that many of the small entrepreneurs who are self-employed are already due to administrative obstacles or bureaucratic measures that we have imposed on various tax warehouses and so on, especially those who have lost their jobs or work at 50 and more years of age, many of them have either stopped their activities or have not gone on to increase or work, increase their volume of work, even if they are aware of it, and probably most of them are not aware of the danger that if they are injured, then the insurance company can sue them for large amounts that either sink the company or the entrepreneur with all the assets. Therefore, it is logical that insurance should also be provided for these cases. Also, an accountant who runs your books is assured that if he causes you any damage with his fault, the insurance company will pay him back. Someone might have said it was on purpose there, but the insurance company wouldn't have paid it off. Why can't you do that in this case? I am even more surprised that the United Left does not support this, just as it does not contribute its signatures to the Second Tyre Act, probably because it has the name of the Left on its behalf. In a different sense, it's important. In New Slovenia, in our delegation group, we are aware of this because people on the ground are witnessing this. I am sure that many of these small entrepreneurs would not register, would not be doing business if they were aware of all the dangers that follow them at work. One of the best entrepreneurs in Slovenia, Akrapovič, has already explained in the newspaper that they have done an analysis of whether, given the social support we have, it pays to work at all, to be employed. [[…]] The finding was that no, even for those with a few other dependent family members. That is why almost no one is employed in the Roma community in Dolenjska. Because it's just not worth it. But if he has the opportunity to inherit a property from his relative, he will give up on it. Even if the car is worth 20 and more euros, because it no longer has social support, which is essential more if you count it in some time distance. We've come so far. Instead of going to the hands of those who want to do what is right, to pay all taxes, to create added value, because the only criterion for the rich — we simply do not see it. Probably because of this, as I read, as long as the taxpayers are in power, it will be the way it is. But when the power is taken over in Slovenia by taxpayers who create added value, then we will have the right masters. Because if the masters are at home, they will also be able to manage state property and adopt regulations that will benefit those who work and create. It is not for the benefit of those who merely expect from a country that is aware of only their rights, but not their duties. Sooner or later, we'll have to get to it or we'll get sick. We can only observe how we are overtaken in the development of the left and from the right-wing former Yugoslav Republic, before which we have had a very great advantage in the time of independence. And not just in front of them, but in front of the Baltic States. Now all we can do is wonder. We used to wonder when Czechs, Poles came to us or via Slovenia to the Adriatic coast with some cars, now we can be surprised again, but in a different case. Now they're not 20 years old damage, but there's either new damage or Mercedes, about that kind of car. And we can only envy them. Why? What have we done wrong on this? I think we're doing a lot, and we're still working. And it is time for us to begin to make amends, and we can imitate these countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. The drafter of mags has the floor. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u28	Do you know what's eloquent today? I've been a Member for some time now, and I don't think I've experienced this. There was virtually no debate after the presentation of the views of the groups. We discussed practically only Members of New Slovenia. Of course, thank you to all those, here I once again expose the SDS Group and the unrelated Members, Ambassador Alenko Bratušek, who have supported this law. How am I supposed to explain the silence of the other coalition members and the United Left? I suppose I would have been naive to imagine it in a way that, if, well, they had overlooked it, because in the views of the parliamentary groups, their main point of view was that it would deteriorate security, but I think that in my deliberations I have clearly proved that security will not deteriorate with this law. Once again, the safety won't get worse. This law is without prejudice to any standards of safety at work. However, this law will greatly improve the business environment, make it predictable and, above all, it will preserve a wide range of jobs. If the coalition were based on the fact that each employee is a dual benefit to the country and that every unemployed person is a double damage because not only does the employee not have to give up certain social transfers, but it even pays into the state health, pension and other cash, the double benefit of each employee is, on the other hand, a double burden on the employee, because not only does it not pay into important cash such as health and pension, it also receives from other social goods transfers. It should therefore be in the interests of the coalition to absolutely support any law, whether it is such or different, even if it is the opposition, which contributes to the creation of a job or to the preservation of a job. And that's what this law is about. But I'm afraid that's what I'm going to add, not only are the opposition Members present at the events organised by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, but they're also government representatives and coalition members, and you've probably got it in your hands or they've ever sent you that booklet of the Request for Slovenian Crafts and Entrepreneurship. [[...]] The regulation of these regression claims within a predictable framework is one of their fundamental requirements. And if you say no to that today, you're gonna be all over this shit. It should be added that this debate is certainly on the ground, and how very current it is that, before the holiday of 1 May, an additional issue needs to be added to the question of the excessiveness and the espionage. To many espouses who today guarantee all their possessions, this law would mean much salvation or at least much greater security. And it is difficult sometimes to understand this ideological contradiction of yours, because there are no substantive contradictions here, there is actually no harm to my workers to make their working conditions worse, but it is only to do things so that they can abstain for a long time and that even when there is a claim for reimbursement of health insurance costs, it is within such a framework that the company can survive and that jobs can be maintained. Here I would expect the support of at least those who fight for the prelude and for all the espouses. In addition, I said that there is now in this debate, which has not been in our first and second attempts of this law, but there is now a new moment in the third and also in the law on apprenticeship. If you have met and met with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, then they have probably told you as well as we do that they see a great deal of danger in these regressive claims, too, that things might go wrong in the case of apprentices and apprenticeships. What am I talking about? We have been warned that apprentices are, of course, still inexperienced workers, young people at the beginning of their journey, who do not yet have so much work experience, so much knowledge, and that these individuals can have accidents much faster. And perhaps some apprentice will also contribute to making an entrepreneur in trouble, so this is even more of an argument that this law of ours today will see the light of the world. But you know, in this House, it happens very often or most of the time, either ideologically or politically, and you insist. Most likely, the decisions to oppose this law, to fall on your parliamentary groups, to go to that speaker, to say the position of the parliamentary group and thus to conclude the debate and debate. But I would be very interested in what your discussions would be. I would like to have a dialogue if you would also like a word-to-word fight so that you can face questions about what you are actually reading to this law. I hope that this law will be adopted at the end of the day, because virtually those key reasons that you have highlighted, this means reducing security, do not. Another argument was raised, which I may have forgotten to comment earlier, but it was pointed out by the Member, who represented the position of the SMC Group of Members, which said that this law could be detrimental to the health treasury. It is interesting that neither the health insurance company nor the health insurance company has any accurate data on these matters, since, as already mentioned today, various data are emerging, namely that there were up to EUR 200,300 000 of regressive claims in one year and, on the other hand, there were up to 20 million of these regressive claims. But here's the important point. These regression claims do not fall out of the sky, but these regressive claims, I have previously talked about specific cases, are required of very tangible people, individuals who today employ people and who can be definitively sunk by this regression request. That's why I wouldn't be looking at this cost so bureaucraticly, okay, this law means a million euros out of health bills. I think if we were to draw the line in the end, this law means plus for the state treasury. Because if you take into account all the contributions paid by employees, employers, then by those employees who will keep the services and who will not be submerged by these claims, more money will flow into the budget than will fall out of it. I would also like this debate today to show a little more ambition on the part of the coalition, but we are following the most successful Member States of the European Union. If you look at statistics today that talk about economic indicators and also about the social indicators of Slovenia, you can find that Slovenia is average everywhere. A lot of people are gonna say, great, we're in the middle of gold. And I think that's bad, because our goal should be to be among the first in the areas that we think are strategic, where Slovenia can make a development breakthrough, where it is important that we move things forward. But since we are average everywhere, the thing is usually that if you're not troublesome, if you're average, you're not even on the radar, and you're simply not there. Here I would expect a greater ambition of this coalition to improve the business environment. Ambassador Lach spoke to me about these matters, and some of you smiled a little bit, but what does that say? Oh, there is! He's got a connection. The connection in this sense is that it is because of our poor business environment that the former socialist countries have begun to overtake us, which we have taken in the 90s many steps forward. We're happy with that, but I think it should be a red alarm for us to do something. Again, this bill we are proposing improves the business environment and makes it comparable to the most developed European countries. To be honest, we actually find hot water here if you want to hear it. Warm water in the sense that something exists and works somewhere in the Western world, we do not understand the point of why we should not transfer these things to Slovenia and make useful use of them. I see that you are in a hurry, which is why I will no longer burden you with my discussions, but despite all the surprise that has taken place in today's debate, that no coalition Member has actually participated in the debate and I hope that this means that you have softened your firm positions a little bit and that the law will be supported at the end of the day when the vote is taken. However, if he is not involved, then at least we know who should then be addressed with comments and difficulties when citizens face it in the future. Then when I walk through the field, I can say, look, I've tried three times, failed, common sense has not helped solve this thing, let me turn to coalition now, maybe they'll take it easier. Perhaps there is a question of prestige here too, perhaps if it came from the coalition, it would be very quickly accepted, we will see. Let us be surprised and I look forward to this afternoon's vote with impatience.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We haven't spent time yet, so I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this. No, no, no. Then thank you very much, I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the protection of the elderly and of the family. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members, first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Mrs Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The government of Mira Cerar has been talking a lot over the past year about improving the economic situation in the country. As a result, it releases a number of austerity measures while increasing budgetary expenditure in a number of areas. Let me mention just a few measures that the Government has recently taken and introduced. This is the recapitalisation of SDH and DUTB in the amount of EUR 250 million, the increase in public sector wages, the re-introduction of 2 January as part of the day off, the increase in the minimum pension for the full period of non-remuneration. [[…]] Therefore, some of these measures are welcome and necessary, and for others we can only see that they are the sharing of political candy. We are assessing that the release of austerity measures should start in families, and we are therefore setting out a number of reasons below. The demographic picture of Slovenia is extremely poor, one of the worst in the European Union. This is also highlighted by the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. The normal functioning of the country or all of its subsystems would require approximately 30,000 births per year in the coming years, but unfortunately we do not reach the number of 20,000 and the trend of births in Slovenia is declining. The extremely low fertility and consequent ageing of the population are, according to the European Commission, one of the biggest social and economic challenges facing Europe in the 21st century. It concerns all Member States and most of the European Union's policy areas, in 2025 more than 20% of the European population will be 65 years of age or older, in Slovenia it will be one in four, and in particular the number of elderly people aged 80 years or older will increase. The coalition and its government seem to be unaware of this and do not solve the problems. Therefore, in New Slovenia, this amendment of the law proposes three essential solutions. First solution, the return of the maximum amount of payment of parental compensation to the level before the adoption of the ZUJF. Second solution, removal of the limits of parental compensation and the amount of parental allowance. And the third solution, the reintroduction of the universal right to help with the birth of a child and the right to an allowance for a large family. The solutions proposed follow the principles of the protection of the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth, as set out in Article 53 of the Constitution, and the principle of the best benefit of the child and the principle of long-term sustainability of the pension system and fair distribution of goods. The main objectives and objectives of our proposal are: to enable families to optimize their family budgets and to ensure an adequate socio-economic situation; to ensure a fairer distribution of public finances; to encourage domestic consumption; to help parents to better coordinate family and professional life and, as a result, to decide on the birth of several children; and to improve the demographic picture of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sincerely asking you to respond to this proposal and to enable families to live easier and better lives. I invite you to support our novel's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Martini Vuk, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u32	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main task of the country is to identify changes in family life and family policy in a timely manner by responding to these changes and by drawing up such strategic documents and legislation that will fully regulate this area. The rate of change in birth rates in Slovenia is similar to that of most European and other developed countries. Demographics have been intensively looking for answers for decades concerning the question of raising the rate of birth, but they point out that there are no simple and universally effective solutions. In this way, social and family policy countries take many and varied measures that may have a positive impact on the rise in fertility rates. In Slovenia, we have witnessed a stable scope of family policy measures or even their gradual increase since independence, but unfortunately this is not enough to raise the fertility rate to the desired level. The Government is aware of the importance of births for demographic policy and is therefore pursuing the objective of creating an enabling environment for decision-making for children. To make it easier for future parents to decide for their child or for more of them, they need as many support services as possible to facilitate their parenthood and, in particular, the coordination of work and family life. Measures that may affect the field of fertility must be considered and planned in the long term. Once a country introduces measures that have a negative demographic impact, as was the case with the adoption of the ZUJF in 2012, it takes a long time for the effects of these measures to be eliminated. Since 2014, the following measures have therefore been taken in order to improve the income situation of families: from 2014 onwards, the children's allowance for the following rights and subsidies has not been fully taken into account; we have introduced a new scheme for the subsidy of lunch and lunch which allows for free lunch to the fifth and free lunches up to the third income class; in 2016, we have increased the child's allowance by 10 % in the fifth and sixth income classes and thus brought it back to the level before the implementation of the ZUJF; we have also raised the price for the acquisition of the State grant; we have introduced additional paid days of paternity leave, so that in 2018 fathers can be entitled to a total of 30 days of paternity leave with a refund, i.e. we have abolished so-called seals, i.e. a ban on the availability of real estate; we have abolished refunds for recipients of social assistance and a protective allowance. Ten days ago, a new Family Code came into force. Not only does the law provide a more modern approach to protecting the benefit of children in family relationships, it also provides the basis for family policy to have a more suitable place in society. The Family Code introduces the RS Council for Children and Family and Family Support Programmes, also provides for the granting of status to an organisation acting in the public interest in the field of the family, and, last but not least, the Family Code requires the Government to draw up a resolution on family policy for a period of 10 years. This is a fundamental strategic document of the country in this area, which has not been updated in Slovenia for 24 years. In the resolution on family policy, which is currently under way, we will identify the key directions for development in this area and also identify measures. In the planning of the measures, we will draw on research and analysis, not to think about them, to think about them, to think about them, and to be liked. The Ministry also ordered last year to produce a situational analysis on the situation of children in Slovenia, which we also sent to all parliamentary groups in printed form. We have commissioned a study on the good practices of other countries with regard to measures to raise fertility. We will both be encouraged by the preparation of expert consultations where all of you will be invited. Now tell us some more about the proposed amendment to the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act. Article 112a of the ZSDP was adopted in 2015, which regulates provisional remuneration, which means the extension of certain savings measures from the ZUJF to the fulfilment of two conditions or so-called anchors. One is that the rate of employment increases by 1.3% and that GDP growth is by more than 2.5%. By the end of September this year, it will be known whether both conditions have been met. If so, I'll take 1. 1. 2018 will release all these temporary measures, if not, and we will work at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to do so. However, what New Slovenia proposes with the novel before us does not constitute a release of these austerity measures, as they propose the deletion of the article which goes to the provisions of the ZUJF. These provisions no longer apply. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u34	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The New Slovenia Group proposes a new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits aimed at returning the maximum amount of parental compensation to the level before the adoption of the ZUJF, i.e. at 2.5 times to eliminate the limits of parental compensation and parental allowance levels, reinstate the universal right to assistance when the child is born and the right to an allowance for large families, and reintroduce regular coordination of maintenance benefits. With regard to the proposal, we agree with the Government's conclusions that the deletion of the Article in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, which goes to the articles of the Public Balance Act, some of which have ceased to apply since 1 January 2016, would not have had any effect. With the amendment to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which we confirmed in November 2015, we have indeed extended some measures. At the same time, since 1 January 2016, we have released some new old measures, which also pursue the objectives of family policy, to the starting level before the reduction we have returned the children's allowance in the fifth and sixth income classes; we have provided fathers with an additional five days of paid paternity leave in last year and an additional five days in this year, another five days will belong to them in 2018. So 15 days together. The demographic picture of Slovenia and trends are similar in most European and other developed countries. Low mortality and fertility are significant and relatively low or even negative natural population growth. Despite the search for answers and solutions, the profession is united that there are no simple and universally effective solutions. While the country can promote and create favourable conditions and measures in some contexts and thus strengthen family policy, it has no guarantee that it will be reflected in higher birth rates. Only with various transfers, subsidies, reliefs or other benefits of low fertility will we not reverse. Research and analysis show that such and other measures to increase fertility have a very small and generally short-term impact. The Public Finance Balance Act has made the situation of existing and future families significantly worse, and has also brought other measures that have led to uncertainty among young people about employment opportunities or the maintenance of the service, which are very important factors of birth. Thus, it would be wrong to believe that only through transfers can we promote higher fertility without looking at the picture more broadly and at the same time promoting other aspects of social security, such as employment and housing. It is also necessary to strengthen support services that facilitate parenthood and to facilitate the coordination of work and family life. The government takes measures, but nothing changes overnight. In addition to the measures already mentioned, we are also taking measures to promote the employment of young people indefinitely with the aim of improving employment opportunities for young people. On 12 April, more than 22,000 families received a large family allowance of at least €395 for three children and 480 for a family with four or more children. In 2016, €10.6 million was earmarked for a large family allowance. But it is true that the problem of family policy is that the middle layer falls almost everywhere. We all know that one of the largest single family spending is the payment of kindergarten and a heavy burden on the family budget. Therefore, it would be useful to further subsidise the cost of kindergarten to those families who have children both in kindergarten and in primary school. This is just one of the proposals. The set of measures is large and the Interdepartmental Group must consider and draw up a list of such family policy measures that will produce the desired results. Unfortunately, we cannot say that for this proposal of the law, so we will vote in our parliamentary group against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for your floor. In the United Left, we always stress that we support exactly all measures that address the harmful effects of austerity policies. And especially those introduced by the Janšev government in 2012 and supported by you in Novi Slovenije. In the United Left, we have been pointing out the harmfulness of the belt tightening policy, which brings poverty and general social decline, without any economic recovery. Therefore, in line with what we have been repeating over and over again, we always agree with proposals that address the harmful effects of austerity measures in the field of public services and social transfers. However, this amendment will not achieve a major solution in the proposal. The situation will not change in any way. The proposal does not restore the maximum amount of parental allowance payments to 2.5 times the average wage, does not affect the amount of parental compensation, does not introduce universal entitlement to support at the birth of a child and a large family allowance and does not in any way change the state of coordination of maintenance allowances. For the applicant deletes an article referring to the application of the provisions in the ZUJF from 1. 1. 2016 is no longer valid. In the meantime, it completely overlooks the Article in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, by which the Government extended the savings measures from the ZUJF. So, as I have already said, the proposal does not eliminate the austerity measures that it claims to be, so there is no point in supporting it. Here it is either a mistake made by Nova Slovenije or simply to promote a party in an attempt to make the neoliberal free market flossules and the sale of the common property appear at least minimally social, while, of course, scaring their Catholic quasi-patriot agenda related to low fertility and unjustified intimidation with the consequent extinction of the Slovenian nation. The proposal is similar to the NSI proposal to return the kindergarten payment regime to the state before the adoption of the ZUJF, with the exception of articles and main solutions, the text of the accompanying text is exactly the same, so our arguments against this will be completely identical. In short, it is a proposal to encourage birth decisions and solve the demographic problem. A boost in the quality of life of our citizens is a goal in itself and does not need to be further justified. On the contrary, Nova Slovenija bases the change on population ageing and poor demographic imagery. The discussion that we need to have more births in Slovenia mainly treats children only as a future labour force. It seems that Nova Slovenija does not advocate family policy, but a naturalistic policy. We can also challenge the proposaler by allowing demographic problems to solve migration for a short period of time. We would be interested in their enthusiasm for receiving young families to Slovenia on the basis of a demographic argument. Whether the right policy in Slovenia would adopt an open-ended young refugee family or a migrant family and ensure the successful integration of their children into Slovenian society. The answer is clear — no. The births they talk about must be domestic, Slovenian, in traditional families, in traditional relationships, is called a domestic birth autochthon. The ageing of the population is an inevitable fact for us and everywhere in Europe, and sooner or later we will have to deal with the consequences. Whether it will result in a permanent breakdown of the social state, or whether society will adapt to a new reality by better organisation of work, shorter working hours and other progressive policies, this is our task and we need to talk about it. The proposal, which has no effect and is also based on wrong arguments, cannot be opposed or supported in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u37	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u38	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! What exactly do we propose by this law? Firstly, we propose that the maternity rate is again 100 % over the entire period, not more than 90 % in the last 9 months. Secondly, we suggest that when a child is born, all families, all of them. And the third time that everyone gets a big family allowance. These are three very concrete, very clear proposals proposed in New Slovenia. Today is the first time that this law is discussed, if certain individuals and Members have problems with certain nomotechnic problems, it can be arranged elegantly in a second reading, because you know that the first readings are intended to discuss general principles and guidelines. Now, as to what is the reason why we proposed this in Novi Slovenije. Lately, we have been saying that Slovenia has three extremely important challenges to tackle in the next ten, twenty years. The first challenge is for sure demographics, the indicators are bad. The second challenge is definitely to improve the business environment. The third challenge is a high public debt. And if you look at these three challenges now, you can find that Nova Slovenija is constantly introducing laws that solve problems in these three areas. First, with regard to demographics and demographic indicators. Here, too, this law is just one of us, we have prepared a whole series, five different laws that help increase fertility. The one we are dealing with today is only one. When research was done, researchers found out what made it possible for young people to choose more or less children. As the first thing was exposed to values, or this society, the family encouraged it. Another very important thing was work. And the third thing was the apartments. If we, as a country, manage to address these three things properly and offer suitable solutions, then the number of births in Slovenia will certainly increase. As far as the apartment is concerned, it is clear that if young people do not have apartments, they do not have a roof over their heads and find it difficult to decide for families. If they don't have a job, they can't survive their families, and it's hard to make a family. It is extremely important and can also be helped by this National Assembly to establish in this country a climate that is favourable to families, to establish an climate that is favourable to a large number of births. See, even within Slovenia there are important and many differences between areas. Many times I expose the valley of Poland and the valley of Selska, where the standard is literally 3, even 4 children. In some much more developed regions of Slovenia, these numbers are much smaller. To return to the essence of this proposal of our law. We want to eliminate as many reasons as possible why young people should say no more children. These small details, which may seem irrelevant to the United Left and others, may be of great importance in those border decisions. This law, which we are proposing today, is a 100 per cent maternity allowance, child support for all and a large family allowance for all, is just one of the five different laws we have drawn up. As for demographics and challenges themselves, the following. If you look at demographic indicators, things are pretty tragic. The birth rate in Slovenia is even lower than the average of the European Union, not to speak from developing countries where fertility is extremely high. And no one will say I'm comparing myself to these, but I'm telling you that fertility is even lower than the developed Western European countries. And that certainly cannot be an incentive. The next concern is that young families make relatively late decisions about their children. The mother’s average age, when she gave birth to her first child, has been over 30 years in Slovenia. The current birth number is 1.5 children per mother. If we want to survive as a long-term nation, it is essential that our goal and our actions be targeted to ensure fertility, in a specific case at least 2.1 children per mother. In concrete figures, this means that we would need to reborn in Slovenia in order to give birth to 30,000 children per year. My generation, born in the early 1980s, is the last such generation in Slovenia, the last generation still having 30,000 children, and then these numbers fell all the time until they reached the bottom there in 2007, 2008, when only about 17,000 children were born. Now there will probably be again difficult political debates, who is responsible for this, but I am sure that our then government, with all the measures it has taken, from the second child in kindergarten free of charge to the special other benefits, has also contributed to the fact that then, in 2008, the trend has turned a little upwards so that today about 20,000 children are born in Slovenia. But as I said, as long as the nation survives, at least 30,000 children should be born in Slovenia, but they are not. In New Slovenia, of course, we want our nation, our tradition, our values to be preserved, and therefore, in this light, our fertility and the number of children seem to be extremely important. And as we say, with all the measures that we have already proposed, with all the laws that we will be proposing in the coming months, we are pursuing only one goal, that is to eliminate all the potential reasons that prevent young people from deciding to create a family. As was said, values, jobs, and housing are three key points around which more or less decisions revolve. I think that this Parliament would take a step forward if we started to promote a culture of life if it were not marked by those who have three, four or more children, if there was something positive, something beautiful and good recognised also by politics or the state, that more children are something beautiful. Another important thing is jobs. We have a lot of work to do here, and at least at the previous point, with a small correction, we have tried to improve the business environment, which would allow more jobs. Finally, we reach apartments, but for a rich country, as the Government says Slovenia is, should not be a problem. In order to establish an appropriate housing policy that would enable young people to live or solve the first housing problem at affordable prices. I would like to see today's proposal to reintroduce a hundred percent birth rate, to assist in the birth of a child for all, and also for all large families, to see the light of the world and to continue its proceedings in Parliament. The new Slovenia will, of course, support this and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u39	The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Erika Dekleva for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u40	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The family has an important role to play in society and is also of great importance to its protection by society and the state. After too many years, this call from the National Assembly last month adopted a new and needed Family Code, which in a modern way regulates family relations and represents primarily a child and its benefits. Although its content is not directly related to the amendment of the law that we are considering today, it is a good example of how the country is able to formulate and guide family policy in a comprehensive way and with comprehensive measures. In fact, today's debate will be aimed at relaunching the 2012 adoption period of the ZUJF, which was then also cut into the family policy area. Some measures are still in force today and most of these measures are already being released. Let me mention it's from 1. 1. 2016 onwards, the child allowance in the fifth and sixth income classes raised to the baseline before the reduction. With 2016, fathers are entitled to an additional 5 days of paid paternity leave, and the gradual increase continues in 2017 and 2018. Children from families belonging to the first, second and third income classes receive 100 % lunch subsidy, 3 000 218 students and students receive more scholarships and, last but not least, in 2016, savings were fully eliminated in the area of monetary social assistance and in the case of protective allowances. Since the economic situation in the country has improved, the New Slovenia Group proposes to Members and Members to adopt measures to relieve family policy, i.e. the return of the maximum amount of parental compensation to the level before the adoption of the ULJF, the abolition of the limits on the amount of parental compensation and the amount of parental allowance, the reintroduction of the universal right to assistance at the birth of the child and the right to an allowance for a large family, and the reintroduction of regular coordination of maintenance allowances. These measures are intended to have a positive impact on the demographic picture of Slovenia and on improving the socio-economic situation of families. There is no doubt that the demographic picture of Slovenia is poor, because Slovenia is like most developed countries today an ageing society and no one is challenging it. Most European countries face this problem. In Slovenia, fertility has been declining for a good 100 years. Under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the State must take all appropriate measures to help parents or others responsible for children to exercise the right to a standard of living corresponding to the child's physical, mental, spiritual, health and social development. The recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Social Charter also underline the importance and demand for different measures to ensure the conditions for the creation and full development of the family. However, social policy measures may have a slight impact in the short term on the level of fertility, but not on the basic trend of development leading to a decline. Therefore, it is not necessary that the extremely positive economic results, the reduction of unemployment and the rise in real income automatically trigger the increase in fertility. In the SMC Group, we estimate that today's proposal by New Slovenia is partial and in certain places, especially in the work when the proposer assesses its financial consequences. Partial interventions in the area of family policy cannot produce results, as shown by both research and statistical data, as stated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its opinion. Even though we recognize and realize the importance of family policy and within it parental protection and family benefits, we will not support the modern proposal's Party Group. The change of law will not solve the problem of long-term fertility in the country. The resolution of the demographic problem must be carefully planned, taking into account the financial sustainability of the country, and should not be based solely on an increase in fertility. Unfortunately, the proposed changes have proved reckless and represent another pre-election candy, as the applicants themselves say. Even though the economic situation in 2016 was more optimistic and despite the positive prospects for the future, this does not mean that we can spend everything that economic growth has put forward. Each government is happy to release austerity measures or to give citizens a better quality of life. However, it is important that he behaves primarily in a responsible manner. It is therefore expected that the temporary austerity measures governed by the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits will be released in 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u41	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are convinced that there is yet another way to help and improve the conditions for the functioning and survival of the family as the basic cells of our society. In an extremely acute financial and economic situation in 2012, certain measures have been taken, which must now be addressed if we are to be a fair and negotiated society. At the time of the adoption of the ZUJF, due to the financial situation left by the Government of Social Democrats, spending in all areas had to be reduced, but only temporarily until the financial picture of the country improved. It was temporary measures that were linked to a growth rate of 2.5%. In view of the fact that this reduction in public consumption was justified, the fact that all other coalitions did not repeal these measures and even extended them to a greater extent, although due to 2.5% of economic growth should have been eliminated already in 2015. The extended measures in the family have linked the current coalition to the simultaneous fulfilment of the condition of 2.5% of gross domestic product and the growth in the employment rate in the 20-64-year-old group to 1.3%. Therefore, the removal is linked to two conditions at the same time that must be fulfilled in the same year. The final condition has only been fulfilled once in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, both at the same time never. It is extremely sad and two-faced by the coalition and Minister Anja Kopač Dark to mislead the Slovenian people in such a way. If the entire ZUJF adopted at the time of the Janša government were to remain in force, the total family income would have been refunded by 2015. At the time of this government, budget money is distributed without proper consideration to all those who clenched this government against the wall, whether or not they were the most eligible for it. Thus, there is no problem of recapitalisation of SDH or DUTB of EUR 250 million, as well as of raising public sector wages, spending money on setting up unnecessary agencies and could also be listed. But when it comes to families, there is a great deal of money running out in the state budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the economic and financial situation in Slovenia is more favourable in 2017, so it is also necessary to help families to increase their birth rate, improve the situation in their budget and that the lives of most families will be decent in the society and the country in which they live. That is why we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which will enable families to optimize family budgets and an adequate socio-economic situation, introduce a fairer distribution of public finances, encourage domestic consumption, help parents to better coordinate family and professional life and, as a result, decide on the birth of more children and improve the demographic picture in the Republic of Slovenia, which is one of the worst in the European Union. It is proposed that the maximum amount of payment of parental compensation be refunded at the level prior to the adoption of the ZUJF, 2,5 times the rate of the parental allowance and the amount of the parental allowance be abolished, the re-introduction of the universal right to assistance at the birth of the child and the right to an allowance for a large family and the re-introduction of regular coordination of maintenance benefits. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this bill, as I have already announced in my position in the introduction. We are convinced that maintaining a positive family policy is extremely important for the development and future of society. I hope we are all aware that it is the family that is the basic and key cell of every society.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u43	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The proposals for the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits make changes to the poor demographic picture and to the negative effects of savings caused by the Law on Public Finance Balance, so-called ZUJF, to our citizens and citizens at the time of the worst crisis. Today, we can say that we have also overcome the crisis with the help of the ZUJF, but it must also be said that it was inappropriate for us to believe that the excessive price of the crisis was paid by the less wealthy and the poor, including all pensioners, because the social state did not play the necessary role. Today, we also have doubts about the adequacy of the identified deficits in banks years ago, making it possible to invest around €5 billion in banks. In Banka Slovenije, which should then adequately protect us from bank abuse, obviously this business has not done well enough, criminal investigations have been ongoing for some time. Without the prior establishment of adequate control over the procedures for identifying bank deficits and without prior adequate control over the use of money invested in banks, the then government took the population, including the socially threatened, to fill the bank hole. However, it should be pointed out that since the adoption of the ZUJF a number of measures have already been popular, particularly at the time of this government. With improved economic indicators and at the same time taking into account fiscal commitments to the sustainability of public spending gradually, but we are steadily increasing, for example, expenditure on pension protection and also in the area that we are talking about today, which has already been detailed by the Secretary of State. So let me just mention that it's from 1. 1. 2016 onwards, the child supplement to the fifth and sixth income classes raised to the baseline before the reduction by the ZUJF. With 2016, fathers are entitled to an additional five days of paid paternity leave, and a gradual increase in the number of days of paternity leave continues in 2017, as this year fathers will receive an additional 5 days of paid paternity leave, and another five days will belong to them in the following year. In the Desus Group, we would like to be able to unfreeze everything that was defrosted in a moment, but unfortunately it is not possible to fix or get into a pile of sufficient financial resources at night so that we can redistribute something that has been diverted in the meantime to other, larger or smaller needs of the country, which has been carried out through quite a few governments. In the Desus Group, we will certainly continue to strive to bring back to the people everything that was taken from them by the ZUJF. The problem with the law that we have before us today is that whether we confirm it or not, this law would have no effect. It is a mistake for the applicants to propose the deletion of the article in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, which is referring to the articles of the Public Finance Balance Act, which have expired, so the adoption of the proposed law would not have any effect and would have brought a certain degree of confusion and confusion into our legal order. Since the law refers to articles that no longer exist, there is no point in voting for such a bill. Even in the Desus Group, we are convinced that more attention should be paid to the field of demographics than ever before. But it is also a problem of missing values in our society, because we should all strive for a country that is friendly to all generations. As long as some of us have no shame and condemnation of others, it is difficult to expect positive changes in society. I am speaking first of all about the need for intergenerational integration and solidarity and respect for the individual. I'm talking about a society that doesn't care about an individual. However, as regards today's vote, it has already been made clear that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u45	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First of all, Mrs Iva Dimic, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Why are you afraid of life? Yet this preserves us, preserves us as individuals, preserves our families, preserves our communities, our local communities. I don't know why there are reasons why marriage isn't suitable for further consideration, but it does help to put things in their place in this country. I'm talking about deciding what kind of policy we're going to run. I firmly believe that our Slovenia needs family policy and social policy, and in New Slovenia we are talking about family policy and today you were talking about social policy. We've opened two different subjects today. We wanted and want to open family policy with measures that support family policy, and you are always talking about social policy. Now, first of all, it would be necessary to clear up the child's allowance. Children’s allowance and other benefits from today’s law are not social aid. They are not social aid and they are not intended for social assistance to families, but they are investment. Thus, family policy, what we are saying today, what we have prepared in New Slovenia, we are talking about an investment policy. We need social policy, of course we need it, but in a narrower sense of assistance to those at risk, those who actually need it; and, of course, we need politics, family policy, child-investment policy and their relevance. There are two things we are talking about today and we are discussing. I can say that the legislator repeatedly repeats and stresses the most necessary assistance in children's allowances. With this, of course, the proven impact on our conscience, on our heart, but right here, to help people in distress and disaster, is right; but the marriage and birth of a child must not be an accident and must not be a social distress. It can't be. Marriage and the birth of a child should not be social distress, but family policy should address it and it should be very different. But we listen all the time to what was done. Of course it was done. If you hadn't fixed it, dear coalition, everything would have been already done in 2015 and it would have stopped, but you still haven't prepared one specific family policy. Last but not least, if we agree that the case, a family with several children, who will make a long-term pensionable millions of euros plus, wins that they have to show their social distress, material hardship for a child's allowance. [[…]] I think we've come to terms with economic and valuable confusion. If it has to prove that they are in some kind of trouble, they will be entitled to some of the child’s supplements — for we have strayed from the path! This can't be a relief. We must have a social policy that actually helps those in need of social policy, and we need a family policy that helps coordinate family and professional life that helps families feel secure in making decisions, in shaping their family policy. Of course, this family policy is also a housing policy, but if we don't start where it's important, it's true in respect of life, I don't think we're going to need it in the future, not in social policy, not in housing policy, not in health policy, not in the budget and not in government, because we won't have it for anyone. It seems to me that family policy requires some small resources, because today's proposal is not some terrible burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and, of course, it is a good will for us to start working on family policy in Slovenia, as is known by all our successful European countries – France, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland. They have a stable family policy, which is counted in decades, not decades, in decades. Personally, it's very close to the system. You get one kid a chicken, it includes, you know exactly what, according to the odds. And in advance, you know, with another child, you get such a sheepfold, with a third sheepfold, without any search for any material social pressures for families. Social policy must resolve this. Of course, with some little resources and some good will, it would be possible for the country to have the benefit of the child before its eyes, because in this way it would promote some healthy childhood, of course with some rights, with some help that would be clear in advance. That way, everyone can make long - term decisions about what and how he will lead his family life and his professional life at the same time. With us, however, we have all things too intertwined and simply do not go into policies that promote a family life. If I just mention housing policy. A young family with a third child on the way wanted to save a housing policy — it was mentioned today that housing policy is important. And they went to one of the Slovenian banks for credit. What do you think they got? If you were alone, you'd get a loan, yeah, because there's already a third child on the way, you know what, but you're too risky for us, and we can't grant you a loan. This is the housing policy we currently have in Slovenia! If you have more children, you're at risk for the country, you're more risk to the banks, and no one's just funding you. What policy do we want to develop in the future in Slovenia? And so are you who are in the Ministry. Look what we should do with housing policy! I personally believe that someone who is responsible and feels that they can have more children, that this is not a risky element in the country. He's not going to fuck up. He's going to the tax havens. It does, however, take root in this country and, of course, fills the state budget. But as long as there's such a stepmother relationship, it seems to me that we've actually come to terms, as I said before, with some kind of economic and valuable confusion in this country. It's a positive supplement for large families to all get it, which I think is very important. No matter who you are, it's for your children. Last Saturday, when I was with the nanny Mrs Nussdorfer at Anna's warehouse, a meeting of large families in Ljubljana, in Shentjakob, was exposed – also large families, with 12 children there was one family. She said she didn't understand why we're all from three kids forward and we're all the same. It is true that if someone has such a number of families, that their needs are different, there are not many in Slovenia, we have discussed the number of such families on the Labour Committee. It seems to me that there should be a positive attitude to this, no matter what government it is. No matter who the government is. Because it actually enriches all of us and, of course, not least the state budget. As calculated, it has been shown that they help a great deal in the state treasury, of course also in the pension register. It has been said that we do not want some families to accept, refugees or such. I think that on the New Slovenia page we have never opened this, that someone simply wants to expose these things, how we are closed, how we want everything traditional and don't know what. This seems to me so much like hair drawn, so you don't have to deal with that thing that's actually very important. However, a family policy is important in our country, which has been stagnant since 2007 and has been trying to erase it through various measures and to mix it too much with a social policy. Indeed, this social policy does not help those who have problems that actually live below the poverty threshold, because it helps them so much that the water does not flow directly into the throat, only when there are some extraordinary events, it floods them. When there are some extraordinary expenses in the family. It's not a social policy! We must help the weakest, most vulnerable groups, while maintaining and supporting that family policy that will allow them to reach their homes, young people. I'm sorry. I am truly sorry that, according to all the data of Death, all the warnings of the European Commission, despite the coalition preparation of the vision of Slovenia 2050, you do not see the need to change something about the basis of life, based on family policy. We can do not yet know how many research, visions of Slovenia, can until 2100 years, where I do not know if this Slovenia will be green at all, but what is essential is what we will do today and for the next 10, 20 years. We, in New Slovenia, are moving forward. We were confident that in the coalition you would understand what was necessary and that we would step together. Even today, if any, an article has been misremembered. And it seems to me that things can be fixed. Like I said, with little means and good will, and obviously good will in supporting the family, there's not much in your species.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u47	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the word to prepare themselves for the Mag. Tanja Zink and Mr. Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u48	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Cardinal Rode won the Bob Award years ago when he said that love for the people starts in bed. And in that saying, there is a great truth. We all know that fertility, demographics is a problem in Slovenia. Sometimes it was considered that every woman should have three children, one for herself, one for her father, and one for her country. Now we have 1.5 or less children per woman and it is not just about whether we have enough money for children, especially I think there is often a lack of will in Slovenia. I must remind you, one lady who looks at us and has also called our parliamentary group and said that someone who does not have money cannot have children. But our actions would help young people to have more money for these things, but I know that there are rich couples, rich families with few children, and modest families with more children. Well, the relationship to life is the one that matters most. Given that we have a poor demographic picture in Slovenia, the whole society should be encouraged – we cannot force anyone to have more or less children. However, I am convinced that if we set up a family policy that encourages young people that enables young people to do so, they will be better able to make decisions if they know exactly what rights they are entitled to. We have to do something. Or will we just wait for the Slovenian people to die out, as I will once comment on the colleague of the Girl who said that we cannot save the demographics by birth. [[…]] Yeah, but what can we do to save her? Of course we also have immigration, but I want most Slovenian people to be born and raised in Slovenia to speak Slovenian to continue Slovenian culture. This does not mean that I am impatient or that I do not like others, of course, but I want the majority of our people to remain Slovene, but we can only save this by birth. I have another suggestion. We can also do something about repatriation because we know that after World War II many families had to move out forcefully to save their lives, we can take measures that will help to bring more of these families back to Slovenia now in the third, fourth knee. When I was in Argentina, I met a number of such conscious Slovenian families who would like to return if the country helped them. So, this is, but I still think that we can do the most by turning our relationship to life into a positive relationship, into an encouraging relationship and by separating family and social policy. New Slovenia is also often evident that we have become a party to capitalists because we talk a lot about the economy. Of course, the best social state is the one that has a good economy, because it allows more people to be employed, allows better income, allows more payments to different cash registers, including pension pensions, as well as better pensions. There will be an increasing problem with us because there are too few employees who are paying into the pension fund, and the demographic fund will not solve this far. We already know that the country is paying about a billion 300 million a year as a supplement to the pension fund, and the demographic fund is a drop into the sea if we compare it. More than we have a child, and when we talk about spending, there will be more spending, more VAT will be paid, and eventually more than employees, more contributions will be paid, spending and so on. Unfortunately, we talk more about death than life. Remember last year, when they were spinning a movie at the Franciscan church, and they all screamed that we were up against an abortion, that this film was against an abortion. And I saw this movie. What was that movie talking about? How life develops, and in the end it was just a sign: Choose life. In one word there was no mention of abortion! Is it ugly if this film was being played there to encourage us to choose life? And there were comments by people who didn't even see this movie. Recently, there was a meeting of women in Parliament to celebrate the recording of the right to abortion in the Constitution. I regret that some women use it, and I don't judge anyone because it's their decision. I don't need this law because I respect life from beginning to natural death, but it's not an achievement for me, it's not something for me that we should celebrate a lot. Unfortunately, this is the situation where someone chose to do so because he was in a difficult situation. I wish that it would be as little as possible to do everything possible to encourage and propose such a woman as possible to provide other solutions; but this is not today's topic, but it is linked. I was the only minister in the government at the time when we accepted the ZUJF. I know that at the time I personally fought against all the measures that were reducing women's rights during the maternity period and then; I know that these measures would be even stricter, and I have also fought against them myself. And now that we're releasing all the measures, I think it's only right that this comes back. The payment measure of another child in kindergarten, which we have also talked about, is one such measure that encourages young people to opt first for the birth of another child. We know that when we have our first child, it is also related to certain cancellations, problems, and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on, the second child’s birth is delayed, and it seems to them that it is too late to return and so on. See, these are small measures that do not force anyone, but a more positive attitude toward this issue would help us to make easier choices for young people. Of course, certain conditions and jobs must be met for this, employment is one of the first. That is why we always stress, see, we are losing a lot of opportunities, a lot of opportunities in the economy because we have too complex, too long-term administrative procedures. I have already said this many times, and the Members of New Slovenia have already stressed many times when we go to the field, say entrepreneurs, we would expand production, and we wait years and years for permission, too red tape, too much of this, we have even prepared proposals on how to enable the economy to build or increase its capacities, and this lies somewhere in the government drawer because we gave the SMC to the customer, and we regret that we have prepared proposals together with experts. We also have a number of such potentials in Slovenia. In the end, what people want most — to live normally, to be employed, so that they can survive, not with social assistance, but simply by doing what they deserve, by living, by supporting their families. Social assistance only comes when someone can't help themselves, whether he doesn't deserve enough, whether he's sick, or he lost his job, then. However, we propose to separate family and social policy in order to encourage thinking so that we can still have some more children in the family. Since money is often not a problem, of course it is very important, we often see that well-situated families are, and they have not made up their minds because of the lack of a positive attitude of society towards it. If I can remember the times of socialism, very aside, those families who had more than two children were watching. There were two of them, and the boy was a girl. That was perfect. If anyone had more children, he was almost an enemy of the state, conservative enough not to say old-fashioned or anything else. That's how it was, I'm sorry. In some countries, they go even so far that mothers who have three children and more are paid for it. What helps us if we take all other measures, but we will not have children, we will not be able to live on as a nation that is naturally being restored. There's nothing to help us. Or we can just leave all our fates alone, say that as it is, it will be, it is not my concern. If we are responsible citizens, then we must all do something about it and I am sure that we can; first with positive thinking about life, then with appropriate family policy and, of course, with appropriate economic policy. Then we can do much for change in the nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u49	The word has magic. Tanya Zink. Get ready for Mr. Jean Mahnic and the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you, President, for your word. If I start in the opinion of the Government, there are a lot of arguments as to why we cannot adopt the law. The change you are proposing in New Slovenia is important. I agree with that, but it's not about what you're looking for with this novel. I'm thinking about raising birthrates here. Indeed, some economic indicators have clearly improved during the time of this government and therefore savings measures are being phased out. But they can't all relax at once. Neither did Slovenia suddenly sink into a crisis. Although the birth rate in Slovenia has been declining for the past 100 years, this has obviously attracted our attention only when we found that the indicators have dropped below the level of ensuring the renewal of the population. If we scan our memory a little bit, in the area of family benefits in 2016, for example, a free savings measure in the children's allowance in the fifth and sixth income classes was released and raised to the starting value before the reduction with the ZUJF. Also, with 2016, fathers gained 5 days of paternity leave, an additional five will be obtained with this and with the following year. So the release of austerity measures apparently also started in families. It is not true that the budgetary resources for parental compensation are on the item listed in the proposal. It would also increase expenditure by a proposed amendment of 29 million and not by 3 and a half, as you state. The government has already warned us that we do not deviate from the trends of most other European countries in terms of demographics. At the same time, studies show that such measures have a negligible impact, if any, on the increase in the short term. If you have looked at the report of the survey carried out in Slovenia in 2010 by the Institute for Social Protection, the communication shows that the trend in the reduction of fertility is characteristic of all European countries. The difference may only be in the speed of the process. Only alleged social and demographic policy measures have an impact on the level of birth and tend not to change. However, the study carried out in our country showed that family policy measures on fertility have no significant impact. It should even be pointed out that the country's support measures to create a family and raise the quality of family life on international standards are beneficial. According to Eurostat, countries with a higher birth rate than we do, particularly those that place a high emphasis on gender equality policies. These are Scandinavian countries, which also have one of the highest levels of female employment. It is true, however, that demographic trends, which appear, are a fact and, of course, must be taken seriously and considered in relation to long-term policy planning, such as family policy. If I finish. So there's no mistake, I support your thoughts. Last but not least, the government is focused on the same goal. It is only that the Government has approached the release of austerity measures gradually. I am convinced that if the applicant sat in the government, he would do the same, if not the same. The bill, of course, follows, among other things, the constitutional principle of the protection of the family, motherhood and so on, but let me remember, and we must not forget the fiscal rule, which is also a matter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and which binds us to a more cost-effective treatment of public finances. In view of the favourable indicators of the current economic situation and the favourable forecasts for 2017 and 2018, I believe that we will be able to achieve the targets gradually.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u51	Ms Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u52	Halla beautiful colleague, also Tanja Zink. At this point, however, several more debaters from the coalition than at the previous point. The government releases austerity measures gradually. That's right. But the rhetorical question was, what would we do if we were in the government? We'd probably release them, we'd release them, but maybe this priority is where we start, maybe different. We would start to relax probably in family politics in order to, however, stimulate economic growth in some way and reduce, of course, taxes in the long term. However, we would not immediately be able to give any other measures that have no direct impact on the budget. I think that here our policy of seeing the release of austerity measures is different from that of the coalition, if I say so. It seems to me that the comparison of the trend with other countries, that everyone is facing a decline in population, is correct and I agree with it. However, again, we must take into account the second point that the countries facing a decline in population are 60, 70, 80 million. There's two million of us. There should be a difference on the side of us that much bigger. Germany has 80 million inhabitants if we take one such European country into account how they face falling and, of course, to some number. I think it's very important for 2 million people to know how it is. That measures in support of the family are beneficial, look, I said, but I can say again how beneficial these measures are in support of families. In our country, it's easy to support families, I can tell you, it's not good. For example, if someone does not get a housing loan to solve the housing problem first and does not get it from Slovenian banks, because a third child is on the way, and this presents a risk to banks and, therefore, to the country too much, it seems to me that this is a completely wrong policy. We should say more, and here they'll do their best to get to it. However, this has happened, of course, but it is an eternal mix of social and family policies. Once again, the birth of a child must not be a social distress and must not fall under the category of social assistance, including the child's allowance. There's just some fog. And then we say, we released the 5th and 6th grade children's allowance. If it were within family policy, it wouldn't have happened at all. Those who are in actual social distress would benefit from a social programme. This is what we are talking about in New Slovenia! That all too much social pressures, which we then resolve on the shoulders of family politics, must be called an end and begin to unwind where it begins. First, it begins with maternity leave, large family allowances, and child support. Every child who comes into the world is supposed to receive help, respect for the country with the help of a child, this has been in the past, I have received all this in children, but from now on it is easy, and this is only for some children. Yeah, why are the kids different? I think that the children are all ours and that we need to have such a policy that treats everything equally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u53	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get ready, mags. Bojana Muršič and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Here we see about two principles of solving the same subject, the same problem that I believe we are all aware of, and that is demography. But the principles differ in the sense that the right hand would solve demographics by implementing positive family policies, positive demographic policies to take measures to benefit families, for the benefit of fathers, mothers, children, and the left hand would save demographics by colonizing Arabs. We've witnessed this in the last year and a half. Leading European politicians themselves have said that migrants who are now coming are going to solve, in particular, European demographics. This is a way of solving demographics that I cannot agree with, because when Arab migrants are imported, culture changes, culture changes, political map of Europe changes, we see what can happen in France, we see what is going on elsewhere, extremes both on the left and on the right are coming to the fore. On the right, we advocate a different solution, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, particularly Slovenes and Slovenes. The law before us today is to support, it is not such a cost that the state would not be able to manage it, but it is an investment; an investment for the future, because by promoting measures, by adopting measures that will positively affect demographics, as a result we will have more births, more children, more future taxpayers and taxpayers. It's no problem to invest money from the state budget into something you know will come back to you in the future. See, it is not a problem, as has already been said, that more than EUR 200 million will be given to SDH, where, of course, money will be distributed according to the principle of social capitalism, left hand-to-right or circular economy, as the Prime Minister of the Government says, but the problem is to give 3 million euros and a half to encourage the birth of Slovenes and Slovenians. In this proposal, the law is well drawn up or written an international comparison of how family policy is maintained or what those measures with which positive demographic, positive family policies are implemented by other Member States of the European Union. Is that what it costs? Of course it's worth it! It also happened that Janša’s government, in order to have a positive impact on demography or some family stress, introduced a free, warm meal in secondary schools to introduce a free kindergarten for other and further children, under the guidance of then - Minister Chernač, the students and students came to the subsidised tickets. These are all things that relieve family budgets and that have a positive impact on the family. On 20 May, the Slovenian Democratic Party has a congress, we will adopt a resolution, and we have also written in this resolution: We will provide young families with a favourable credit for the settlement of the housing issue, the purchase of a house or an apartment, with the capital of the loan being reduced by 20% at the birth of each newborn child. Will that cost you? Yeah, it's gonna cost, but once again, it's not a problem to give money from the budget or even take credit for it, it's easier to get it by selling some state firm if you know where that money goes, where you put it, and put it where you get it back. This will have a positive long-term impact on the budget and, of course, if more children, more taxpayers, more employees, more contributors, this will also have a positive impact on health, pension, social welfare. This measure must be adopted. Let us avoid this political prestige that if the opposition proposes something that the ruling coalition rejects it, it will come alone with this proposal after a while. We've heard a lot about these pre-election mints. In fact, such measures are usually taken towards the end of the mandate, but if we did something for the pensioners yesterday, when we gave a minimum pension for those with full-time employment, we have not done everything we should have done, because just like those who will have 500 euros or who now have less than 500 euros, they have empty stomachs and they also need food for those who have 200 or 300 euros, of course, on this account because they do not have a full-time job. I will support this law, and I hope that in the future, not only by the opposition, but primarily by the government, we will get some specific laws that will have a positive impact on demographics and that Slovenians, Europeans and Europeans will be born on our soil, not the import of Arab migrants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u55	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, the proposalant! In your explanation today, you mentioned why we do not have the good will to support this law, why we fear life. First of all, I would really like to ask if this has anything to do with this proposal that we are dealing with. I don't think so. I must say that the Government's proposal has given us an explanation, or even if we look at this bill, that certain measures have already expired. It is true, however, that the aim of the law is to enable families to have an adequate socio-economic position, to encourage domestic consumption, to help parents to better coordinate family and professional life. I can't say no to that, and I don't object at all, this is the goal that we both want to achieve here in this Chamber. Of course, we all want to help young people decide to be born because that is the greatest value that we can achieve. This will also fix the demographic picture that is in Slovenia, I will say, really bad. However, all of this needs to be seen in 2012, when the Public Finance Balance Act was adopted, which has proved to be, we often speak of it as completely inappropriate. Certain measures have been corrected, which is certainly commendable. At the time of the intervention in 2012, the Ministry noted that the measures taken by this family policy, adopted in 2012, would have a very negative impact on the quality of life of these young families in particular, and also on fertility. Of course, that proved to be true. If we look at the research that shows from statistics that 21 000 938 children were born in 2012, while only 21 000 111 children were born in 2013 after receiving ZUJF, which is 827 children less. We really need to look at ourselves in this place and ask ourselves what we need to do to start raising fertility. Whether these measures by releasing the ZUJF will really achieve that effect, it is very difficult to say, you need to look at an integrated picture. The way of life needs to be changed. We know what jobs are like today. The services are from morning to evening, the children are most alone in the afternoon. Employers are also looking for women who will not decide for their children, who prefer to hire men because they are more available. There is also a real need for employers to pay more attention to social obedience in order to form families. It is true that a number of employers who encourage their workers to decide on the birth of children also introduce protection in companies. These are the key factors that can boost birth growth. It is also important to ask whether young people will decide at all if the tax system does not allow it or does not allow it. It is also crucial that the young family wants to live on its own, it is said, that housing policy needs to change in this place. The applicant mentioned that a young family expected to have a third child was sent to a bank where they did not allow it to be credited. Here banking policy needs to be looked at and also at banks to appeal that such a family cannot be in a worse position than the others. It is true, however, that personal income is so low that it is simply a question of whether such a family will actually be able to pay the loan. So there are a number of concerns, a lot to think about, a lot to talk about, and it is therefore commendable to have such a discussion. But this law, which has been tabled today, cannot really be supported because it has already been abolished, so I do not understand it. It is also true that more well - thought - out families are planning their families more carefully, and there is a need to ask why this is happening. Poor families may not understand this policy that much, so more children are born. They really need to be helped by these social policy measures, but it is necessary to think about having a child in order to easily offer the child the best that you can. We need to be aware that when children face each other in both kindergarten and high school, they want more and more. Many parents cannot offer this to their children, so it is also on the parent’s side that they make very careful decisions about the birth of children. As I mentioned, the demographic picture of Slovenia is really bad. We are an ageing society and every birth is absolutely necessary. It is true, though, that when a woman finds herself in a situation or retains a child or decides to take another, very sad measure, abortion, she should not be prevented, for when you are in such a crisis, you simply decide to do your best to actually know what you will be able to offer in the future. I think it's right that this matter is as settled as it is in our constitution. In other words, some positive measures by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have been taken. From 1. 1. In 2016, the children's allowance in the fifth and sixth income classes was raised to the baseline before the reduction under the Public Finance Balance Act. Also, every year, fathers receive five days of paid leave, and in 2017 they also have five days of new leave, and in 2018 they will also have an additional 5 days of leave. So I hope that social policy will continue to be positive in this area and that we will in fact ensure as much fertility as possible, without falling below 20,000 children per year, but to begin to increase to at least 30,000 at the annual level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u57	The proposer? Ms Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Colleague Bojana, I really said why you're afraid of life, because the simple action that is before us today, which we have proposed in the New Slovenia Group, is the measure that actually happens at the beginning. So it's 100 percent maternity, a big-family allowance, child support. I think that these measures, which should actually be acceptable to all of us, do not put any great pressure on politics, tax policy or public finances, and I think that there is a positive attitude to these measures. I agree that this relationship to life should also be addressed to us. Anyway, I've already listed how I see it myself, I think, and I've mentioned many times, the employment advantage. It's a positive relationship. A negative relationship, such as where births were intended to be restricted, was taxed on a child, a real burden. Just all those countermeasures. Greater job security — too many times we hear why young people do not make decisions; because there is no safe employment. That's a very big factor. I also say again, and today, I hope that the Secretary of State will take this into account if we have the positive or the protection of young people who have the advantage of employment up to 30 years of age and over 55 years of age, I am sure that you have enough people in the Ministry capable of drafting a bill that would also give security to women when deciding on their family. I'm sure it would be to make real more secure jobs. That's the way to think. If this were to happen, I am sure that some trends in the decline in births could mitigate and, of course, turn the trend in a positive direction. In fact, with these measures that we come to New Slovenia to this Parliament – these are free kindergartens for another or every other child, then I don't know, 100 percent maternity allowance, a large family allowance, child support, and we still have the housing schemes ready and on – it seems to me that these measures have actually started turning in a positive direction now almost 10 years ago, a trend since 2007. Let me just say that there is no rule that maybe more disadvantaged families have fewer children or that more numerous families are reckless. I don't think it's said that larger families are poorer. Of course, I do not agree with social policy, which in fact forces a larger family to go into some material hardship because of a child's allowance. I've already said this before that if we agree to this, we're in some sort of valuable mess. Therefore, it should not be a child's allowance of some social category and the elimination of some social distress, but it is necessary here to all those we have too much in Slovenia, because more than 200 000 assistance is considered necessary, to adopt a slightly different policy, and that to those who actually want to realize family and professional life, even to these approaches in an appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u59	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Pojbič and Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! About a year ago, when I was talking to a parishioner of one Serbian municipality, which has about 8 thousand inhabitants, out of which 3,000 people work abroad, he explained to me that about 10 times as many people die each year as they are born. Probably because those who go abroad for work cannot create a family there, not give birth, but want as much as possible and earn as much as possible to return, invest back and return to their country and then move on with a better life. These congregations give 10 times more at the birth of each child to a family than our congregations, which give some 100 euros at birth, even though they have significantly less resources for other original tasks. They are aware that investing in children, in childbirth, in natility is the best investment. Even in Russia, he also told me that there is a woman who gives birth to three children, who has three children, who already deserves a pension, she doesn't even have to go to work. Education and education are likely to be involved, not only in financial terms. Then I'll skip. My sister has been a caregiver for over 30 years, and during this time she also monitors the upbringing of children or of some families. It is sad to say that about one third of children mean to a family, a mother, a father really rich, they would give everything for them, education, asking themselves, trying; one third is about like this, they bring the child, they come to look for him, they come to meetings, but more and more children of those who are overparents and can't wait to be brought to kindergarten and then they come looking for them as soon as possible. It also happens that these kids don't like to go home. But I can't understand that as the father of three children, grown-ups. Why is this happening? After listening to how young people should get their own apartment as soon as possible, go on their own, live away from their parents, and when I hear how the mother wants to give her child as much as possible – of course, Mother wanted to be 40 years old. Then how are these people going to make a family? We face social problems differently. Not everything is in money, as we say here, we have different problems and there needs to be solved. There used to be families, three generations, on one farm, all worked. Young people have learned to work, working habits soon. Now don't let the minor do anything. I'm supposed to go to work there at 30, 40. It's different in Germany, but they're a more successful country than we are. There, or at the age of 20, children are expected to become independent, reach their families as soon as possible, form a family, and get to work. There's something wrong with us. Probably from those years when I was still small, socialist – to create a modern, highly qualified slave who will speak a few languages so that he can go anywhere so that a servant can be able to communicate with anyone. Is that the goal? The family is a fundamental cell of society and also more children together, we know from the past, has created a better life, it is better organized if there were more than fewer in the family. They were not rich, but they were probably happier if there were more.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u61	The representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I would add that the research we have done in Slovenia shows that Slovenian families would like to have on average one more child than they have. But here comes the main question: trust in the country. Because of real uncertainty, they have shown research, they do not hope to make decisions. It seems to me that this case is also for the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities to approach these problems, to address these uncertainties, and then to see whether it is with some security, with some security, then it is possible to encourage a positive attitude towards families. Once again, I would like to say that there is no rule that more families are less viewed or in a weaker material situation, that this should not become a rule, that families are treated that way, or that they are even reckless. I don't think it's necessary to say such words here and that, finally, even in the constitution, there is a respected secretary of state. The Constitution states that the State is committed to creating conditions that will enable family life to be coordinated. That's what it says in the constitution. But we can look at what we have done recently or in the last ten years to make this article in the constitution the best possible way and to enable family life to be coordinated and, of course, professional life. Here I want to say that we must also have mothers, including women, the opportunity to coordinate family and professional life. We have this right, and I am fighting for this right myself, but the state must ensure that we can do so, which is to protect women at some point in the family's life, or in the pension system, so that this contribution to the nation can be taken into account in some way. However, it certainly seems to me that it is important, as far as the focus is concerned, to improve job security. I think we've all done too little here. Once again, greater job security is also 100% maternity. Personally, it's some kind of greater job security, because that means I won't be deprived because I've decided for the child, for the life, for one part of the income. I think it's that first step and it confirms it. Please understand, however, that this is the step that allows women to coordinate family and work life, 100% maternity. That's what we're proposing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u63	Ms Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! I think this debate is constructive, I can say necessary, but it is not directly related to the draft law that we have before us. We are talking about family policy measures, we are talking about measures to increase fertility, we are talking about measures to increase confidence in the institutions of the country, we are talking about measures to increase security. This is all very important, and here I think we all agree that this is the way we must go if we want to provide a stable, secure environment where trust is created, so that people live, create, operate and create a family in this environment. That's our basic attitude. If you've listened to my opening act, I've spent 90% of my performance talking about family policy measures and measures to increase fertility. Because we think this is an important direction forward. But in order to reach this key document called the Resolution on Family Policy, we had to first adopt the Family Code, which came into force a few days ago. And now we are fully prepared for the Resolution on Family Policy, which, by the way, was last adopted in 1993. 1993, when trends were already forecasting and when there was some knowledge and also an international comparison and our picture, where we are going from the point of view of demographic change. Like I said, we don't want to do things on purpose. Some of the studies have already been done, one you mentioned, probably the one from 2010, which showed a lot, and other similar things show. They show that changes in decision making on the birth of children are slow, especially changes up. Hence, a person’s decision to have another child besides those he has to decide for his first child requires a very strong incentive, sovereignty, trust, and an appropriate firm partnership. All the rest of the environment, I agree; from the housing problem, safe employment, to all the other circumstances that lead us to it. What do all these comparisons show? This shows that where measures appear to be effective, it is those that encourage women, partners, to make early decisions for the first child – that is to say, to reduce the age at the birth of the first child, because then there is a greater likelihood that they will have more than one child – and that such measures will be taken to encourage a faster sequence, i.e. a smaller age difference between children, so that there is a greater likelihood that they will still be able to choose a third if they are two with a small age difference. These studies also show that, as I said, this change is extremely slow and that change down can be very rapid. It is therefore necessary to take measures down very carefully. I don't know if you know the data, but did you know that in 2015 the birth rate was 1.55, and in 2003 it was 1.25. Which means that in fact our fertility rate has increased in 12 years. However, during this period it fell the most between 2012 and 2013. Now there are no changes, these short-term trends are only attributed to a very narrow segment of action, because a wider demographic picture needs to be known. It is also necessary to know that this period was when the largest group of women were of childbearing age and that now the number of women of childbearing age is falling and we will fall into the future, which means that we must take measures to preserve and at least partially increase this rate of birth that we have. These measures, which we all talk about all the time, and which show up both from international comparisons and from domestic research, as well as what people say they want, refer to a number of groups – transfers are just one group that I said they have more negative if you take them as positive if you add them. This security is extremely important, i.e. housing security and safety in terms of employment. If you think that the Ministry of Labour can provide safe jobs, permanent ones that will only encourage women to decide for greater fertility, and in this way to write it down, then I can tell you that we have already written it down. There is no discrimination in employment, there is no question of interviewing for employment about any family situation, plans for the future regarding private life, just so that this is not the reason for discrimination, the reason why no one would be employed because of family plans or because of the family situation he has. We are introducing different measures of coordination between family and professional life precisely to allow for the maximum possible employment of women, precisely to allow for the sharing of work and care for children between both parents, because this has proved to be true in Scandinavian countries, for example, which have shown progress in raising fertility rates here, including as a positive measure. In 2%, no country within the EU has gone, but some have approached this percentage and our goal is to go against this percentage. The resolution on family policy will be prepared this year. It will be valid for 10 years, as defined in the Family Code, and will be accepted by the National Assembly. Within these resolutions, all the measures, all the positive incentives that will be shown for those that can help improve the situation of families, the higher birth rate, the better situation at all, including what you have warned, the overall better acceptance or the climate, if you want to, why it is – probably a large majority disagrees – are the family of some fundamental building of society. It is because at the end of the day, except in extreme depravity, where there are some problems or unhealthy relationships, we all find ourselves in our family. However, as far as the draft law is concerned, I have already stated in the introduction that even if this law is now adopted in this form, it does not abolish these austerity measures, these three types, i.e. in terms of parental protection compensation, in the area of this package or compensation, the award at the time of the birth of the child and the allowance for large families, which is paid once a year, because this 112.a article, which has determined the temporaryity of these measures, and then in the transitional provisions, bound them to the fulfilment of the two conditions, remains in force. As I said, the autumn of this year will be known whether these two conditions were met if they were, then these austerity measures will be released, the same will apply in the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which regulates children's allowances and state scholarships, which were also limited by the ZUJF, the price has been reduced. And why the child supplement is really a family policy measure. As you know, the children’s allowance scale is adjusted according to the income of the family member, which means that it encourages — more when family members are involved, the total amount the family can have is still entitled to a child’s allowance. For example, now I've made a quick calculation. The current limit is 64% of the average wage, which is little more than €640 per family member, and for a family with four children, this means €3 000 840, a little more, income per month. We cannot talk about the social category here, but it is really an incentive through the child supplement, and the scale of the child supplement is also designed to increase the height of the child supplement from the first to the third child and then to remain at the level of this third child. Not because it would be assessed because it is known that it is purely economic to increase the total cost with each next child, but because it is a measure of family policy that encourages decisions or helps, it should also help to make decisions for a larger number of children. In the end, however, we must say that it is a decision, but the state can take individual measures that encourage it; it can also work with a positive affirmation, which is why in any case, at the end of each individual’s decision or, rather, each individual must be respected and absolutely respected. And only when it was said how measures will be taken for Slovenians and Slovenians. All of our measures under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act are linked to permanent residence. The same applies to the exercise of rights from public funds, they are linked to permanent residence, and this means that everyone residing in Slovenia has acquired a permanent residence, is entitled to these transfers or subsidies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u65	Ms Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your response, Madam Secretary of State. The fact is, in a way, you've told us how a child's supplement is arranged with which scale or progressive scale. Today we are always around the children's allowance, and our marriage is not a child's allowance, our marriage proposal is, of course, a hundred percent maternity allowance, the return of a large family allowance for all and the aid of having a child for all. However, the fact is that in some ways all this family legislation may be somewhat too complicated. True, family benefits may not be able to decide for an additional child in the family, but those who choose to do so can be very helpful. Our marriage proposal is going this way to help them. Above all, in order to help coordinate and enable families to optimize their family budgets and to balance their socio-economic situation and their family and professional lives so that they will not be in doubt about how they will decide in the future, because they know that some security will still await them in the form of a hundred percent maternity allowance or a large family allowance or assistance at the birth of a child, I am finally stressing greater security of employment. There's not enough in this area. Our proposal for a law goes at least one step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u67	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare for the mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Jernej Rotovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I initially said in the position of the Group of Members, I will support this law. But I can't help but say a few more words in the introduction to this unfortunate ZUJF. I simply cannot understand and will never understand that those who have caused the situation and the situation that the government of Janez Janša had to accept the ZUJF speak nonsense here today. That this ZUJF is troublesome, that I don't know what's wrong with it, and so on. In fact, it is the government under the leadership of the SD that is absolutely responsible in large part for bringing Slovenia into a situation where there was an urgent need to act if we wanted to ensure the functioning of the country even in the future, if we wanted to ensure that people received a pension, that teachers got paid, that doctors got paid, that nurses got paid and so on. It is unreasonable, unacceptable and extremely low that those who have caused such a situation in this society are here sending the mind how problematic this ZUJF has been. I would really like once to ask you to stop pretending and tell that first part that's the key, why actually the ZUJF was adopted. And those culprits who have brought this country to this point should be locked up, not walking peacefully in Slovenia today, for the pigs they've made. I don't know what, 10 billion in three years, my dear, that today the poor nation pays a billion and a half interest! We need 4% of economic growth to pay only interest. Where is development, where is everything else, what family policy, what do you think about family politics? What is the Ministry's view on family policy when their key objective is to ensure and realise the interests of LGBT! This is for them the story of the future of Slovenian family policy. It's not funny, it's fact and truth! At least show some culture to the Slovenian people. And don't say one thing about family politics, and the other one, make sure that even the story in this society is in the hands of LGBT citizens. If it's family policy, then the hell with me. Both – well, because everything is the same, I apologize. It's unacceptable that I have to listen to this, and I'm listening to this now for three or four hours. The new Slovenia, which has proposed this law, has proposed with good purpose. The fact is that we have a situation where the demographic picture is the way it is and that it urgently needs to be solved. Not to say what I have just heard from the Government and the representative of the Government: we are investigating, we cannot, we are not inclined to the narrow segment of the measures, we are preparing a resolution, and this ZUJF, unhappy, is still in force. [[…]] Those who keep saying that he is so harmful are so bad — why haven’t you stopped him for a long time? If only after what the Slovenian Democratic Party had proposed – that is, when we led the government, because there are some other parties in Parliament who agreed at the time because the situation in the country was catastrophic. What we wrote at the time in the ZUJF should cease to apply in 2015 in this area, which we are talking about today. But why didn't you do it? This government coalition and this government has extended it! It has extended these measures. And today they're talking about how harmful he is. Look, this is something that an ordinary Slovenian man can't understand. You're making a direct fool of people, you're making a direct move, you're cheating and you're lying! I just can't say anything else, or I don't understand this story. We have a problematic family policy and a problematic approach to the resolution of family policy by this government, left-wing. These left-wing falanges, which have a completely different view of some things than what is fundamental and crucial if we want to follow the path of true family policy, family as the basic cells of society and so on. Everything else is more important to you than this. You don't care who's gonna take care of the reproduction and so on. The second part of this problem, which is crucial, is this what has been done in the field of the economy? Tell me! What was done is that people today would have normal wages, so that they would not have to move out of Slovenia, so that they would not have so many and so many thousands of people today under the poverty threshold, on a minimum wage! How can two people with a minimum wage afford to create a family and can function normally to have two, three, four children? How, tell me, those who have little heart and see what is happening in this society! How can a lady who works in a store that is seven days a week at work and never know when she will have those five minutes so that she can be with her child at all. And so on. How can we think in this direction that this is the right environment, a decent environment for demographic change in Slovenia? How? That's a question to be asked. It is said that this government is pursuing anti-social policy without creating conditions for the economy to be strengthened and for jobs to be opened up, the one with higher added value. You know, today no young family or almost no young person will be and can't afford a child, unfortunately, this is a sad truth if they can't get to an apartment if they can't get to work, and we can't do what we can in the National Assembly – I speak here separately from the economic policy that the government and the coalition that have scissors and canvas in their hands must lead. And nothing's done about it, nothing. The country is additionally indebted, the interest is increasing, poverty is increasing in our society. But is it a responsible government, a responsible coalition, but is that what the Slovenian people want? You're bluffing and talking nonsense here, so the poor people have to laugh when they listen to you here. You say some things that you believe for yourself, that absolutely do not contain any real judgment. Absolutely no real thing. That's not right, that's not fair. There is no problem today to speak with words about resolutions, to speak here, as I had previously heard about research and so on. That's not a problem. These are papers from which the poor people have absolutely nothing. You will not do anything about this in the field when we talk about improving the demographic picture in Slovenia. On the other hand, look at the situation we're in. We have 780 thousand pensioners about, we have 120,000 unemployed people, we have 160,000 people in the state and public sectors, and on the other hand, I'm talking about roughly the approximate numbers of 680,000 people working for this whole machine. How do you imagine this will go on? How do you imagine? I don't understand. It's simple. I hope that at least if you, the coalition and the government are not able to propose important good proposals, you will support those put forward by the coalition, i.e. the opposition. I don't want to talk here today about the policy of lions, rights, as we usually say, yellows, yellows, I don't know what kind. I'm talking about what's crucial to this society. Demography is crucial to this society. Slovenia is old, it is an old society, one of the oldest in Europe, and if we do nothing and today say that we will write a resolution for I don't know ever again, for so many years and so many years, but in fact, we have not taken the measures that are possible to be taken immediately, immediately if we want to help and create at least a few conditions for these young people to "establish" – if I say so. And if they don't have a job, like I said, they're going to work seven days a week in stores for minimum wage – there's no alternative! Ask these young people who are working after these that I won't say, I'm not going to talk about the names of these malls right now. [[…]] It's a shame, it's beneath every level! All these people live practically on the threshold of poverty and break through every month just to pay the bills and nothing else. They practically can't afford anything, nothing, nothing. We also have group J in the public sector, which we have talked about several times. On the one hand, in the public sector, some live as gods, and here is a group of people who do not even have minimum wages. That's embarrassing. What country, what state policy is it that leads such a policy? What's that?Oh, my God! And what kind of coalition is that?Oh, my God! You must ask yourself after three years of rule, what has been done in this area. What was done to create new 200 or 300,000 jobs? Remember, there were 56,000 unemployed in Slovenia in 2008, and almost 90,000 work permits were issued, and then we were able to say that people decided to be born, to start a family, and so on. Because they had a salary, they could buy an apartment and so on, so I won't explain everything that matters. This government is, look, completely out of focus. For them, LGBT is an important story for them, which is a key story for them, and everything else is a second-rate question for them right now. This is not right, it is not fair, it is not for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and citizens, it is not for the benefit of young mothers, it is not for the benefit of all those who want to have families, but under such conditions as they now rule here in our country, it is not realistic. I am very sorry, and I am very sad when I have to debate this way here in Parliament, instead of saying today that the Government, yes, you have proposed the law, let us do everything we can to ensure that it is adopted after a reduced procedure. Anything that's gonna be short-circuited if anything has to be changed, we'll change it. [[…]] That's the first reading. Where does it say that you can’t upgrade this law to be acceptable and to eliminate these measures, which you are talking about, are still in force? He extended them – who? That government has extended. Why don't you do it? Don't come in here to piss our brains off because we know what this is all about. Come here with your solutions. We governments, who walk in our minds to give lectures, don't need to. We need a government that will bring the right solutions to the National Assembly, which will be written on the skin of those who need the most help and these are the most vulnerable groups in this society. In addition, because of the demographic picture, everything needs to be done to increase the birth rate in Slovenia. But in words, with resolutions and research, we will not come to these solutions. That's one thing. The second, which I think is very important, but I will conclude with this, let's do something about this stinking, corrupt corruption. Please, everyone sitting in this House, let's stop this corruption once! Let's draw the line! And there would be enough money for these family stories across every border. If we pulled the lines, I don't know how much money was stolen in health every year. You'll see slowly when this committee that works on health, when it brings certain things to the public, what happens in our society, how corrupt people live in our society. And nothing is done in this area. Even when we're talking about social inspection, and I don't know what these companies are, why don't you go take a look at what they're doing to people. Go and see, for God's sake, ask! Call people and let them know how they treat them, what they have to do! They don't even hope for anything else, merchants. They can't replace each other to make a deal with each other. It's terrorism! It's terrorism! And here we're thinking about some family, some success story. From now on, I demand: inspection services at your disposal – all of these companies! Now! We're going in order tomorrow! If necessary, five more will be employed — we will go there! Let us protect our Slovenian man, our merchants and so on! Let's do this! But do you understand that I'm sick of hearing these and other discussions?Oh, my God! [[…]] When we spend time, minute by minute, and people suffer more and more; they suffer more and more; they are constantly on the threshold of poverty. And here you're trying to manipulate us into being a bunch of assholes, sitting in Parliament, not knowing what's going on in this country. Yeah, we're going to the people! We're going to the people! I've never been a pure bureaucrat. Never in my life! You have no idea what life is like! Because when the moon came around, you got paid. Doing what? Doing nothing — the same story. Does that seem normal to you? Once again, I hope that in this society, people will say that those who did not “work” not a minute, forgive me – I speak in sayings, even public servants are very good, and some of them could be driven away long ago, because if you follow these stories around, you see what's going on. I mean, let's do it in this society; for the first time, let's do it together, let's create the conditions for parents — that is, young people, both moms, and fathers on the other hand — to have an interest in providing those basic conditions so that the family can function normally. There will be no problem, and things will change. And the demographic picture will also change in this society of ours. We're just creating conditions for them. The first condition is that the economy works. That people will have a job, a salary, and so on, so that they can take credit if necessary, because today they are — with minimum wage and no credit! How are you gonna get the apartment, how are the young people gonna buy the apartment, tell me? How? God forbid they're two young people, one on a minimum wage, and the other on a social work center. How? Yes, my dear Government, you are on the move! Well, the coalition's on the move! Take the decision to make a change here so that young people can get to the apartment. Without an apartment, it's just very difficult for you to start a family; it's very difficult because you don't have any conditions. And there are young people sitting in this Parliament because I know they are facing similar problems, they are meeting their people, their young colleagues and their colleagues, and they are talking about it. Why don't you go to college and see what they're saying? What did the state do to get married early and to have children born to mothers, such as at 26, 25, or 24, not at 29, 30, 31, and so forth? And you don't need any research. Go to the people! What kind of research?Oh, my God! Again, a few hundred thousand or a few million to spend on research, for those who are shoved up on their backs — what is it? - Department of Social Affairs. Just to pull the money, but they do nothing, no added value. The same way we talk about those active employment policies when someone teaches them to write applications. Now I'm going to ask the Ministry for once how much money has been spent in the last ten years teaching someone to write applications. And who are those companies that were attacked up there? Let's see what this is all about. And you'll see how much money has been spent and what the results are. People have a suitcase full of this when you go to coffee with him, he says, just please, Marian, don't tell me anything because I'm going to throw up. Because I'm going to throw up. And so on and so forth, but now I'm going to finish. Once again, I support this law, I am sure that the proposer of this law has done it well, and because he has done it well, and because it is still necessary, we will, of course, support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that it is suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u69	On the subject of Procedural, please, Mrs. Erika Girl. [[…]] You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u70	President, thank you for your word. I would just like to ask you to intervene a little. However, I understand that Pojbič is very difficult to concentrate and direct, but we do have a proposal for a law prepared by Nova Slovenija, and it is right to talk about what colleagues have prepared, not everything from A to Z, because then we can really be here all day. Besides, I know that a colleague has one and the same debate, regardless of the subject and regardless of the proposal, but for the second time, I am asking for a little guidance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u71	Mrs. Girl, your observation is in place. I just wanted to, but I do see that Mr Marijan Pojbič is raising his hand and that he would also like to do it on a procedural basis. Here you go, Mr. Marijan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u72	I would like to make a procedural suggestion, Mr Vice-President, that you understand the role of Member [[advertising from the hall]] . The Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to express his opinion on such or other law. I have given my opinion, and I think that my opinion is purely credible, completely acceptable, because what I am saying is true — whether it suits anyone or not! Therefore, I ask you to tell Mrs Girl that if she knows nothing else than what she has just said, it is better not to get up in the National Assembly and it is quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I agree with you that we have both our rights and our responsibilities. It is our responsibility, of course, your right to speak, it is true, but it is mine and it is also yours to talk about what we are here for today. [[…]] Yes, that's why I didn't want to intervene that many times or most of the time we're all allowed to speak outside the box and because Mrs Erika Girl warned me about this, I believe you've heard it too. I note that we have another procedural proposal. Mr. Jože Tanko, you wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, as well as some members of the coalition! If you have listened carefully to the debate by colleague Marijan Pojbič, the debate was conducted in a comparative manner, comparable to the specific content covered by the specific area. The Minister also spoke comparatively about certain matters. I know the debates are different. Many Members, in fact those who prefer to talk about agenda items, are most pleased to read only the last paragraph of the Government's opinion when the opposition makes proposals for laws or other acts. It is said that “the proposal is not comprehensive, is not systemic, is partial, does not regulate in its entirety” and so on. These are colleagues who know the most about how the debate is being held in the National Assembly. Your observation, Mr Vice-President, is not in place because Mr Pojbič has embarked on discussions in a comprehensive and sufficiently reasoned manner. He also said what the right solutions were for specific problems. I suggest that such inappropriate procedural failures, which are solely intended to respond to some arguments with some, may I say, painful observations that you no longer allow them to do so. If they have something to say in the SMC to apply for the debate, they have had enough time to say what they think, but not to argue here in a procedural proposal with the debate of a Member. She can have a replica, ma'am, and she'll tell you what her friend said she doesn't. The Secretary of State may say that, but none of what Pojbich said is true. Hold everything. That's what I'm telling you is that it's true, because I've known this stuff long enough, and I know it in enough detail. I suggest you don't just sit on the kind of stuff that those who don't have anything to say or defend.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I would not like you to be involved in this debate, like yours or our predecessors. It seemed right for me to allow Mr Pojbich to express his opinion, just as I had been allowed Mrs Erika Girl to express her opinion. I would really suggest that we all stick to this agenda item. The content is already relatively difficult and, therefore, let us allow this debate to take place to the end. As for real and non-real data, I think that Mrs Martina Vuk, Secretary of State, will respond to certain allegations and give her my word. Madam Secretary of State, please. I'm sorry, procedurally. Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. This content is not difficult, it is extremely understandable, and anyone who wants it understands it. But it is difficult for the coalition to support it, which I believe is because the proposal did not come from the right side. I also suggest that this is not how you deal with the applicants, because the purpose of the applicants is defined in the Rules of Procedure, it is proposed to resolve certain matters, whether it suits the coalition or not, is another issue, but it is only wise to defend yourself if you do not already want to support it, not by discrediting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u77	Mr. Jože Tanko, everyone can create their own opinions and impressions, who attacks someone and who speaks inappropriately. Therefore, I propose that we continue, and I repeat to you again, and I believe that your next intervention will not serve any further useful use of the time allocated to this item on the agenda. That is why I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Mrs. Martina Vuk, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Everyone can afford their opinions, but they are not allowed to be insulted, humiliated, discriminated against, and so forth. If you don't mind, I'd like to continue my discussion. The argument is based on facts – not every observation given by someone is based on facts. If someone talks about how he lies all the time, how he thinks he's making up, what he's trying to hide, what's more important than family policy – then it's not an argument. And after mentioning numbers that are completely wrong – this is not an argumented reference to facts. I'm sad, Mr. Pojbich, who's gone when I'm listening to all this. My heart hurts too when I listen to all this – always the same debate. I wonder, too, how much did you raise the minimum wage for all this time? How long before people don't live for that minimum wage? How many applications have you filed for a work inspection if you know about the exploitation in stores and the like? How many applications? How much? Let's talk in an argument, then let's act, not just talk if it's necessary. Come on! 120 thousand unemployed. There are no 120,000 unemployed, there are no more 120,000 unemployed for a long time, and you know it, but from month to month you're repeating that same number! From week to week, this number is dropping, last time it was about 92,000. 92 to 120 thousand – quite a difference. You know, we can't talk like this. We have already opened a debate many times that everyone is moving out, and the numbers have shown that they are not. So they don't probably go into the holes. There's an increase in employment. Employment is growing! But what about numbers, but not, what about arguments, what about research and findings, if we don't need them when we can think of them! You know, when I said family was the basic building block of society, I meant it. These are serious things we're talking about. It's not a performance, it's not a performance, it's serious stuff we're talking about today. When we talk about whether it is right for all families with three or more children to receive a large family allowance, these are serious matters. And when this measure was introduced to get it to all families, it was introduced for some purpose. Therefore, next year, we expect that this measure will be released and that next year all families with three or more children will be entitled to a large family allowance and that all families will be entitled to assistance when the child is born next year. All the families. We are even thinking in the direction, not as it used to be, to introduce a package, but to introduce some form of a voucher, that these are really meant for the child, so that you can cash it for those products or for those services that are intended exclusively for the child, so that it is indeed for a period of time, so that it is really meant for the child. Because we're dealing with these things and because we care about these things. It's important! [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u79	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u80	Because it seems important to us what quality of life is in our country and how people live. We think it's important. And it's very ugly, it's very ugly to say what they're meant to do, and to talk about how everything else is more important. It's very ugly and rude to say something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u81	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Mr Jernej Vrtovec should be prepared and then the concluding part of the general debate followed, where the first word is the word of the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u82	The law that we are considering today is really very simple. We've had a lot more complicated laws before, but this one is really simple, and it has three key points. Are you in favour of reintroducing a 100 percent maternity period over the entire period? Our answer is yes. The coalition says no. Did you want all families with more than three children, three or more children, to receive a special supplement? We say, yes, the coalition says it's not time yet. And the third element that this law bears: Are you in favour of all children receiving help at birth? And we say yes. The coalition says it's not time yet. Things are very, very simple, and when I listened to today's debate of the coalition Members, I did not get some tangible reason, and I also found it interesting that no one has seen any financial reasons, because, as you say, the crisis is over, but a tangible reason for supporting this law on the coalition side is not. So it's obviously just about prestige. When we discussed today, of course, because this is a first reading, it is a general discussion, we are also talking about the principles and objectives that this law should pursue. We have made it public that this law is part of a set of measures that would help to eliminate as many reasons as possible why young people do not decide for children or for larger families. It is clear to me and also to us in New Slovenia that no letter on paper will contribute to young people deciding for children. That's clear. But we are confident that, as a country and a parliament, we are obliged to remove all the obstacles that arise at this point or in this context. Nor is it right for us to have a system that punishes those we are married in some way, or that women who decide for their children are punished in some way. If they went to work, they'd have a 100 percent wage, because they have children, they care about them, and they keep them at home, and they have 90 percent of that income. Is that fair? It's not. Even when we take action, we must take them in the direction that we are not being punished by those we are married. One last thing, because some calls have now been made to our parliamentary group, what we are saying and what we are doing, as far as fertility is concerned, and to the debate of Ambassador Tomic, let me make it very clear that we have no problem with this. We want as many Slovenians to be born in this country as possible. At least as far as the New Slovenia Group is concerned, if you look at us, these 6 Members, and calculate our birth rate, find out that 2.8 children are on [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thus, we have moved to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, she has the word "representative of the government." State doesn't want to? [[…]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the proposer? Yeah. Mrs Iva Dimic therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you very much for today's debate on, as colleague Tonin said, with some simple law that very clearly says in three points what it brings, there are no complicated and unreasonable procedures at the back, how to calculate it. Because in fact family policy or family legislation in Slovenia is too complicated and it seems to me that it actually forces families into a situation where actually some material distress is better than where there is no distress. Of course, I am also talking about children's allowances, for which we really want them to be the same for everyone and to be attached to the child. It seems important to me that I stress that confidence in a better family life and a return in our population movements should build trust in the active conditions of parenthood in demographics in view of the ageing of the population. That's not new. The Secretary of State also said that they knew this; that they knew such measures and, of course, the stable conditions of parenthood in France, Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands. That is why I think it is necessary to build measures to support families that will build and support, and above all to move in a direction that does not undermine what has been built so far. It was said that a resolution on family policy would be prepared. I must say that I look forward to this and, of course, I hope that in fact, the resolution on family-based family policy and on the necessary measures to support and strengthen the family and, above all, to harmonise family and professional life. Of course, I am thinking about the security of employment for women who decide on children, and this is too often forgotten that more equitable distribution is needed, not least in terms of family policy and social policy. It is not right, once again, I stress that it is wrong to mix social policy into family policy, because the actual birth of a child must not be a hardship and must not be a social problem, but must be a family policy and a positive attitude towards life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u85	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Nobody. More? Then I ask you for Aha, like this, I must first read: Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. [[…]] If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Mrs Iva Dimic, and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will be given the word as the last, first the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor – five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It is a shame that there is enough money in this country for Mr Cerar's private trip to Paris and his team, that there is more than enough money for hiring client staff at social work centres, that there is enough money in this country for the various stupidities that are then caused by compensation claims, that there is enough money in this country for the second track company, that there was enough money for the Slovenian state society that manages forests and so on, and that there is little money to fix certain things in the field of social policy, where rights were reduced during the so-called ZUJF. It is a shame that, while millions of amounts are being distributed to various groups of civil servants, trade unions, such and others, and so on, the millions, ten million amounts, are not available for several million euros to fix certain things in the area of family policy, pension policy and more. That's rude. Until those representing an authority, a government, in this area, are some representatives who should take certain policies and proportionate decisions, they will not be aware of that until then, there is no assistance to that country. Until then, it will be financed and will only allow certain positions for various privileged groups. We are witnessing this, there are groups that are not stopped by any crisis. We have set up new institutes, new offices during this period, in times of crisis, and there is no way to do this. That office you set up as guardians of the principle of equality or whatever it is, advocates of the principle of equality could also be set up in two years, when the situation would be even better. But before that, all the things we're talking about right now could be settled. There is no problem in providing enormous amounts for migrants – they cost so much according to the Court of Auditors, a thousand 963 euros – but the problem is to give 20, 30 euros or 50 euros more to some groups of Slovenian citizens. That's rude. If necessary, we will hold a special meeting on these atrocities that are taking place during this period. I think he's gonna say something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u87	Mag. Matthew Tonin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u88	Another additional thing that surprised me in today's debate is that perhaps there is no real sense of debate about demographic issues and demographic indicators. While this is a top topic across Europe, the most important topic that is debated and, above all, looking for solutions, how to encourage, improve demographic indicators, we are obviously some fools all those who open up these topics and talk about these things. Certainly, there was a crisis, there was a crisis, and if we look at these numbers honestly and responsibly, who actually carried the burden of the crisis that came to Slovenia after 2008, we can come up with interesting conclusions, which are objective, which are not subjective. From 2008 until today, if you compare the number of employees and the mass for wages, you will find that I will say exactly: in the private sector, this is in the real economy, and from 2008 to today, the number of employees has decreased by 12% and the mass for wages has dropped by 1%. On the other hand, you have a public sector where, from 2008 onwards, wages have increased by 14% and employees by 3%. There is no need to give any additional adjectives and any explanation, but I would like to say the following. When this government declared that savings were over from now on, it was time to share this economic growth among people, it would be fair to do so in a way that all people would receive it; not only those who are employed in the economy, but not only those who are employed, including Members, in the public sector. That would be fair for all citizens! However, the measures relating to the so far release of austerity measures have been linked in one way or another to the public sector in particular. While those working in the real economy have not received any additional special burdens. In a similar light, we should also look at this modern - day law, which is very simple. If you're up for getting 100 percent maternity leave from all citizens, all of you. Similarly, this law does not distinguish between those in the public or private sector, this law applies to all. This law would bring 100 percent maternity to all, a large family allowance to all and a child support to all, regardless of whether the parents are in the public or private sector. At least in this light it seems important to me that when we write laws, we write them in a way that will benefit all citizens and not just for one segment of the population. That's one aspect. The second aspect that I think is important here is that I do not know when, if not now, we will begin to address the issue of fertility and the question of demographics. Perhaps even some coalition partners, my dear Desus, who says he cares about pensioners, should be the first to be interested in the birth of as many young people as possible in this country; as many young people as possible, because it is these young people, when they grow up, who will be employed and paid into pension and health bills, and it will also pay for the dependent sustainability of the systems that the pensioners will benefit from in the coming years. So those of you who say you stand up for the pensioners, for the working people, that you have social sensitivity, that you fight for the welfare, today have a unique opportunity to prove it with your own vote for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u89	Mrs Iva Dimic also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much. It's over. Both the demographic picture and the family are now in material distress, pressures of values, spiritual distress, and improvements are urgent. We have come one step further in New Slovenia. We wanted to improve the situation of easier coordination of family and professional life by allowing women not to be deprived of their lives when they choose to live, so we said they should be given 100 per cent maternity leave. So she doesn't feel like she might even be a little less valuable because of her motherhood than someone who stays at work and doesn't make a decision. I think it is imperative to take this step. Because of the message value, it is important to support the law in this reading. Because, last but not least, the wise government, the one who wants good and who sees more than its mandate ahead, would rush ahead with improvements, and so it actually translates to the next year, to the year when it will be. This “when” is always longer because there are always some new reasons involved. I don't know. I can say I'm sorry. This is the reality of today's or this time's government that, in fact, if a good proposal comes out that actually equates some exclusion of women and equivalence in some way and with some value of about 3 million and that of the opposition species, it is unacceptable for the coalition. Unacceptably, this will be resolved or resolved in itself next year. That's what we'll all be waiting for. I don't know if that's the right answer. I think we are in a situation where it is necessary to understand that there are too many people who actually want to harmonise family and professional life who want to be equal, and of course who want to have a possible child more. As I said, research in Slovenia shows that they want to have at least one more child. That's a fact. But it's up to us to make it possible for them. If research had shown that this was not among respondents in Slovenia, then I would have said, I understand, there is no such desire. But it's a wish. And the task of decision makers and the legislative branch is to make citizens feel accepted in this country and to make their wishes come true, of course. In a way, it is really bad for me, because the New Slovenia proposal, once again, brings a hundred percent maternity allowance for a large family to all families, which enables everyone to help with the birth of a child, whether in financial form or in the Vucharian system, that this is not understood by economic growth as an opportunity to approach the easier coordination of family and professional life. I can say that this may even be a step in the wrong direction of the coalition, and I do not see how easy this proposal will be or how to correct the picture in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u91	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, immediately after the end of this item on the agenda. I interrupt this item on the agenda and we move on to the vote. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will first vote on the 13th item and then on the 14th item of the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is a proposal made by the Government of Slovenia in connection with the migration problem. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to sign. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. Before we go to the supplementary explanation of the proposal, I would like to point out that I have examined the Magnography of the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and the Local Self-Government which addressed these recommendations. On this basis, I would like to draw attention to this: today I expect our debate to remain within the constitutional framework. You are also because the Law-Legal Service is autonomous in relation to the rest of the National Assembly, and in particular to the parliamentary groups, I do not want any attack on the Law-Legal Service. That's two things I'd like to point out right now. For supplementary reasons [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] . Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] . I mean, now, Mr. Janez Janša, you are very rarely present. [[…]] I'm not used to you falling into words, I'm not used to you hurting, and I'm giving you a reminder. [[advertising from the hall]] In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims. [[advertising from the hall]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u92	Mr President, I am calling about your introduction to this item on the agenda, because you were thinking of me. That's why I'm calling. Look, Mr President, we are -- I'm only going to read two things. In the recommendation on this item of the agenda – only the first, because time does not allow me, we wrote: The National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it respects constitutional principles consistently and implements the measures within its competence by first addressing the social problems of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that in no case will they be illegal migrants and asylum seekers or international protection in a privileged position according to the situation of citizens and citizens. So we're stately. Listen to me, President. [[…]] We have recommended to the National Assembly, that is, to the Government. The law enforcement service, which you have just referred to, has said that we must not interfere with another branch of power. Is that right? That's what you meant. I will now read to you the item on the agenda on traineeships in the judiciary, where your committee, i.e. the committee led by the SD representative and your coalition members, has adopted the following decision: The Committee on Justice has taken note of the issue of traineeships in the judiciary and recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accelerate all necessary activities with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia – and so on. So it's recommended. Next: The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court should be reported to the Committee within 6 months. So you, by your decision, have ordered the judiciary and the government to report to the National Assembly. This is not illegal, this is not an intervention in another branch of government, while our recommendation is to the Government, where we recommend that something be done but unconstitutional. Mr President, double, double criteria – I do not agree. Never! And I won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u93	I don't think you understand what I'm saying. I was talking about two things. One thing is that I want the debate to be within the constitutional framework and those limitations, which also exist for us. On the other hand, I was talking about the Law-Legal Service, not the relationship between the various branches of government, but the relationship that the Law-Legal Service is autonomous and, as President of the National Assembly, I am obliged to defend its autonomy so that I do not consent to any attacks on the Law-Legal Service. Nothing else. Nothing about constitutionality and legality and similar matters. None of this. And that's why I warned you. I understand your case regarding double criteria, but you're speaking in general. I am only talking about my role because I intend to defend the rule of law because in this House, he is doing his job well. And it can do well if it is autonomous and if it is not under attack by individuals in a way or another to deny it what it is doing. Nothing else. Mr. Jože Tanko, I presume it's procedural? Yeah. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The National Assembly is probably set up to monitor policy in specific areas. So, cumulatively, what is in charge of working bodies is covered by the National Assembly. I guess we're okay with that. Therefore, in the framework of policy monitoring, I will say, the powers to control the work of the Government and other things in certain matters in the National Assembly are possible, permissible, permitted and compulsory to debate. Another time. We're members of the constitutional category. Legal and regulatory services are not a constitutional category of the National Assembly. Members of Parliament have certain rights where it says that our work and no one can influence us. And it is not the President of the National Assembly who will be able to influence me as a Member. You can run the session. Given that you have some points that we are proposing, what introductory comments, I find this unworthy. Look, I say this, it's unworthy that someone there ex-Cathedral allows himself to tell us what Members can say. You probably want to, so I understand this debate that everyone comes to you with their written product, you do the hooks and repairs, and then we can get to the payphone, to the microphone and tell you what we think. That's how to understand your instructions. There is no need, Mr President, we know our role, we have drawn up the agenda item that is being processed, and we will discuss this item of the agenda as we think it is right and that the Slovenian public deserves it. Not as the President of the National Assembly thinks it should be, not as the Government thinks it should be proposed, and the coalition follows it in these matters. We will discuss this as we think it is right, and we will also argue these matters. We still are, and we will now. Such interventions, I must say, are demeaning for the National Assembly, for the candidate points, for the material you have on the table, for the proposals for conclusions. We do not allow anyone to be the editor of our recommendations and conclusions. He can write an opinion, this opinion can be remedied by the coalition with his suggestions, if he has them, he can reject it, like you did here, but, you know, he refuses them a thousand times, and he's not good at it a thousand times, but it's funny. This is also what this power looks like in these two and a half years, which is accompanied by us and also by the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u95	I didn't quite understand what was meant to be procedural about the whole thing, so I think we should move on. [[advertising from the hall]] No, there was nothing procedural about the whole thing. You've given your opinion, again like before, at the previous point, you've misused the procedure, and that's it. In order to further explain the proposal, I have given the word magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u96	Your Honor, everyone has a very nice greeting. It is also a greeting to all those who are leaving and taking advantage of the opportunity given to you by the President of the National Assembly when he has violated the legal principle always in force in Parliament that parliamentaryism is made up of written rules and unwritten rules that apply as written. It has always been so far, when there is a general debate, before the final vote is held at the meeting. This is the first time in so many years that, at one important point, the coalition first destroyed all the proposed conclusions and did not propose its own, and then the President of the National Assembly called for a debate on a topic that is crucial for Europe and Slovenia and for the fate of all those who live here only after the conclusion of the vote at this meeting, which is, of course, very sad, he says much. But more is said sometimes by the numbers, ladies and gentlemen. And the numbers were defined by the Slovenian Parliament yesterday. Yesterday, Parliament defined that everyone who reached full-time must have at least EUR 500 pension. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already defined its number before, past Parliament. Any illegal migrant who comes to Slovenia and wants asylum costs this country and the taxpayers of Slovenia a thousand EUR 963 and then gets an apartment and everything that goes with it. For this apartment, by the way, there are calls that require glass ceramic plates, leather seats, LED TVs – because you won't believe it, I don't have it – and probably a lot of Slovenian families don't have it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is happening in a country where, with the efforts of everyone in Parliament, the starting point for a man who has worked legally for 40 years, his life, his health has been given to the construction of this country, amounting to EUR 500. But someone who comes, and three-quarters of them are calculating, not any refugees, but everything else, and they say, "I'm an asylum, I want asylum, it comes illegal, and he's four times that." This, ladies and gentlemen, is a real situation when we look at it in numbers, and it is an eternal shame to all those who have participated in such a decision at government level. For then the government denied that a thousand 963 euros was not only a cost for every illegal migrant every month, but that it was also the wages of all those working on it, but the material costs I do not know what else. Von Hayek, Nobel laureate for the economy, said nicely: If left-wing people had any idea about the economy, they wouldn't be left-handed. And those who say such things speak universal nonsense. These are costs that would not have been incurred if there were no illegal migrants. Pika. This is said to be the cost of illegal migrants. Slovenian taxpayers pay thousands of €963 for every illegal migrant every month in this country. Shame on the shame! For in this same country, ladies and gentlemen, which has written in Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution that Slovenia is a legal and social country, according to official data 300,000 Slovenian citizens and citizens live below the poverty line. 300,000 Slovenian citizens and citizens, ladies and gentlemen! And 30,000 Slovenian children, according to reports from NGOs, could not go to sea last summer, and they wanted to. What did the Slovenian government do? She grabbed the migrants, took them to sea, and took pictures of them there. You know, that's fake humanism. It's called false solidarity. That's because taking pictures of you being in Soros co-financed media and then showing off nicely, you're a multiculture. But, ladies and gentlemen, what about the multicultures? The Universe was Paris, the Universe was Nice, the Universe was Berlin, the Universe was Brussels, and all the other parts of a miserable Europe that now enjoys a multiculture of wealth, as left-wing people said, I can list. And I'll count by tomorrow morning. Even Britain, which has only decided to flee because of migrants, is recognized. They've had 2,000 acid attacks in a few years. Do you know what that is? When a person is permanently depraved, it destroys life. 2,000 acid attacks. Until Europe started importing migrants from radical Islam, it did not even know about such attacks. That the bottom is even bigger, but now Antifa, those radical leftists or militant leftists, leftist fascists, have started using the same tricks at home. And recently we could even read that one of them was arrested under the charge of preparing an acid attack. Interesting, isn't it? Not only have Antifas and migrants in the field of radical Islam been working hand in hand for some time, and they broke Paris together, they broke Berlin, they broke Hannover together, they broke Hamburg together, they met some of the city quarters in the northern German cities, they're obviously already copying methods, the craziest criminal methods, which says a lot. We were also able to see this with the pictures we saw on Kotnikov's, when some of them were already covered, and with the sticks in their hand, to defend foreigners against their own people, while others were reading the Medici, holding the Slovenian flag and not falling for provocations, which unfortunately included some member of the National Assembly from the left province. And this is the real situation, ladies and gentlemen, the reality of which in Slovenia this winter, which has been extremely severe, so much about those stories about global warming, which by the way depends on the sun, but not so much on what a person is doing, this is a marketing trick, it was even a lot of frostbite among people who couldn't raise money to buy enough chicken. Someone even died of hypothermia. But obviously that's not what you're interested in. Once again, according to the Constitution, Slovenia is a legal and social state, so it is the duty of the State to take care of those who for objective reasons are not able to take care of themselves, at the appropriate level, as much as the State can. Only then, ladies and gentlemen, can he help anyone else. No one should say that the right to asylum is a fundamental human right that is boundless and similar to the stupidity that we hear over and over and over again. Whoever thinks such a thing is to read Dr. Lovr Šturm's constitutional lawyer, who is a professor of constitutional law who has said, not only does the State have the right to restrict entry and the right to asylum, but he also has the duty to do so because it is his duty to provide first to his citizens and citizens who also pay taxes for this purpose. That's why it's taxes, ladies and gentlemen! Not by throwing them out the window, we celebrate the most productive part of our own nation, young, young families, entrepreneurs, we send them abroad into a more friendly environment, and we import migrants under the cover of false solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, a crime against your own people, not a policy that is consistent with the Constitution. This, however, is the fact that a 40 - year - old who has been legally employed and receives four times less than an illegal immigrant, is a disgrace over all the disgraces and is obviously an unconstitutional situation in this country. There's another article in the Constitution that says we're all the same before marriage. I believe that the coalition does not fit in to discuss this, so she tried to put the matter under the rug with all the tricks that I have already counted. What did we really suggest? We proposed three recommendations. First of all, we recommend that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comply consistently with constitutional principles and implements measures under its jurisdiction by first and foremost addressing the social problems of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and by not being illegal immigrants or asylum seekers or persons with recognised international protection in a privileged position in relation to the situation of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So what in a normal country should be self-evident. The coalition has deleted this conclusion. We then recommended recommending that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia strengthen its activities immediately to prevent a possible major increase in illegal migrants in the event of a new migratory wave starting again. Because it will, ladies and gentlemen, it's only a matter of time. There is no greater illusion than to think that the migrant crisis is over. It hasn't started yet. At this point, the flow of migrants to Italy is greater than ever. And that's what everyone's involved in. Prosecutors in Italy now find that NGOs are working together as a mafia, and in fact, the mob's hunters go back to the governments and then to Brussels. Someone has come up with the idea that they can just suspend one part of European Union law. This was first, because you know, in Germany, then what European institutions should never have done, and finally local countries, national countries, including unfortunately the Slovenian government, were involved. Conscientiously, there was a violation of the legislation, a conscious violation of the Constitution, and a conscious violation of international law. I'm sorry, what is a premeditated violation of the rule? That's the characteristic of a mafia society. And when it's said, we have to make sure that the mob doesn't take part in the illegal movement of people, in the transport of people. Yeah, what else was that? In this respect, governments, including the Slovenian government, unfortunately, and then institutions all the way to Brussels as the collective, largest mafia organisation in history, which illegally brought millions and half of people into the European Union. And don't think this story is over. Now it's quiet, you know, and it'll be quiet until the second round of French elections, where the choice is bad, you don't only know which one is worse, one is a short-term problem called Le Penova, the other is long-term, it's called Macron, which of course is no middle candidate, but he's an ultra leftist. And when we get another ultra leftist in Germany, which will be the very likely end of the story that happens there – what will happen next minute? Yeah, there'll be open borders again. And the next wave, ladies and gentlemen, this European Union will by no means survive. It'll fall apart and then it'll just be a question of who's ready and who isn't. The security and well-being of citizens and citizens will depend on this readiness. We have therefore proposed a third decision, which was announced that we recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to use all available legal, technical, human and international options and measures to secure the border, the security of people and their property and to establish control over the entry and exit of migrants into and from the country. But why are we really witnesses? To complete absurdity, when someone in Europe, and unfortunately with the help of our government, works a fool out of their own people, when people now stood six times for the exit from the Schengen area at the southern Slovenian border, and even after 10 hours at a time, at the same time that our citizens were being controlled by a little less than the surrounding area, they were shaking a little, and they imported about 9,000 new illegal migrants without any control into Italy. This is the reality that we are now witnessing and that reflects the absurdity of this situation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have been repeating since the beginning of this story in the SDS that we must prepare ourselves to comply consistently with the legal rules, including the Constitution, including those of the international rules that one would like most to rub under the carpet, because they do not meet or do not comply with them at the moment, and that we must organise ourselves in such a way that we are fully able to ensure the safety and well-being of our citizens and citizens and in this context and, on this basis, of course, to help, in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, to establish a social state for our citizens and citizens first, for those who objectively need help to live a life worthy of life, and only when this goal is fully achieved when every Slovenian child can go to the sea, when every Slovenian family is able to provide adequate heating, security, for their children, for everything that is worth living, for them, and for them to help them, and then we will be able to please. In this case, however, it will be necessary to make a sharp distinction between who is actually needed, and who is an illegal migrant who has come for economic purposes or with what is worse than we have been, unfortunately, many times in recent months.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u97	The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government on 11 April 2017. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mrs Janji Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much. At its 34th meeting, on 11 April 2017, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal to be a working body. Following an additional explanation by the applicant, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service, in relation to paragraph 1 of the proposal, had found that it related to the State's action in the field of migration in relation to measures aimed at solving the social problems of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and added that the assessment of the privileged situation of illegal migrants and applicants and persons with recognised international protection in the text of the Act of the National Assembly was not a matter of value. As regards the powers of the Government, she explained that compliance with constitutional arrangements and applicable legislation was not extended to the determination, direction and coordination of the implementation of State policy in all areas within the jurisdiction of the State. This also means that the implementation of the country's policy in one of the areas cannot in any way exclude the action and implementation of laws in other areas. With regard to the requirement of consistent respect for constitutional principles, she considered that this was already incorporated into the Constitution, so there was no need for any special call by the National Assembly and the Government to respect the Constitution and its principles. The recommendation that the State suspend the exercise of its responsibilities related to migration and the provision of international protection could constitute a violation of the fundamentals of constitutional regulation, of individual human rights, which are universal, and of the right of asylum to foreign nationals and stateless persons. It would also refer to the suspension of the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia under international and national law. With regard to point 2 of the proposal, she pointed out that the question of how far the reduction of illegal migration flows could depend on government activities alone. She also pointed out that the powers of the Government by content and method of enforcement could only be determined by law and by law. In the discussion, the representative of the proposer said that, if money is given to illegal migrants, the Slovenian citizens were therefore deprived of the funds. The fixing of quotas for the allocation of migrants constitutes a non-compliance with the Dublin Regulation. He stressed that the right to asylum is not a fundamental human right, at least at the expense of citizens and citizens. The State has not only the right but also the duty to limit the number of asylum seekers according to its real financial capabilities. He also mentioned that only 28% of people who have emigrated to the European Union came from countries where war is, so we cannot talk about refugees for a large majority. These are illegal migrants, and the current does not drive war, but political interests and money. In his view, migrants are the cause of all current threats to the European Union. The motioners stressed that international legal documents for the protection of refugees were produced in the 1950s when a negligible small number of migrants arrived in Europe, so today we must not read them in the Czech Republic, so we must accept everyone. No convention shall destroy the State of Slovenia which has the right to defend itself against this, even if it does not respect these conventions. They also expressed opposition to the contingent plan. The representative of the United Left expressed his belief that the debate was held between the representative of the hatemaker and the hate speech, and he announced the obstruction of the United Left Group at this point of the agenda. Members of the coalition expressed their belief that this problem created an atmosphere of impatience with migration and that the applicant's statements were not being followed. They stressed that citizens were not deprived of their right to social rights because of the housing of migrants, but stressed the importance of solidarity. With regard to the amount of maintenance of one migrant covered by the Court of Auditors' report, however, they stressed that it represents a large part of this amount of fixed costs that go towards maintaining an asylum home and salary. The Secretary of State stressed that the Government is implementing all social policy measures and that the presence of applicants for international protection does not endanger the social security of Slovenian citizens. He said that the system that we have taken over by entering the European Union requires us to have an institution such as an asylum home, so fixed costs always exist, but the government is trying to be as rational as possible. The State must also have a contingent plan if it is to draw on some of the European funds. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all the individual points of the proposal together and did not adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u99	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Andrej Špenga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u100	President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the beginning, I would certainly like to recall those last months of 2015 and the first months of 2016, when Slovenia faced exceptional migratory pressure, when almost half a million migrants passed Slovenia from October 2015 to March 2016. However, with the greatest humanitarian and security challenge since World War II, the Republic of Slovenia has responded quickly and in a coordinated manner. In a given situation, the competent authorities acted in accordance with their competences and available resources. The activities of all state authorities involved in managing the migrant situation have been focused on effective action to move more migrants, with particular attention to security in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Most of the population in those days did not feel the migration flow at all, since it was always under control, properly directed and also controlled. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has closely monitored the situation and has also adequately monitored migration flows. Since the beginning of last year, the government has been monitoring the security situation at regional and global level through the competent authorities and is preparing a comprehensive response to the potential future migration crisis. In dealing with the migration problem, we must be aware that the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted the Geneva Convention on Refugees in 1992 and that, as a Member State of the European Union, it is also committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system in the sharing of burdens and solidarity between Member States in the reception of refugees. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also aware that national measures can only have a limited effect if they are not supported by wider regional and European solutions, so we pay great attention to cooperation and support for regional initiatives. I therefore assess that one of the more effective such initiatives and guidance is also within the Brdo process and the Salzburg Forum. The Republic of Slovenia has responded quickly and responsibly to the increasing number of applications for international protection, or we can say ready way. In accordance with the Law on International Protection, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a decision establishing two positions of asylum at home. Since June 2015, a contingent plan of the Republic of Slovenia has also been prepared to provide accommodation and supplies in the event of an increase in the number of applicants for international protection. The plan sets out scenarios and targets, all necessary measures and bodies, and established systems of possible response according to different scales, i.e. an increased number of applicants for international protection. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also drawn up legislative solutions and measures to enable the police to work effectively in the changed migration situation, which would endanger public order and internal security. At the beginning of the year, they were also accepted by the National Assembly. However, I must also say that, at the end of 2016, the Ministry of Internal Affairs published very important and positive findings from the Court of Auditors, which reviewed the performance and efficiency of the ministry in addressing applicants for international protection and persons for international protection in 2015. The audit showed that the Ministry was effective in addressing applicants for international protection and decided on the recognition of international protection in accordance with all the rules. Let me finish. Slovenia is also a credible partner at the level of the European Union, and the first proposals for a renewed European asylum system are also being prepared, in which Slovenia, as a credible partner, participates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u101	Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon. As we have warned many times in the United Left, it literally escalates from month to month, exacerbating the policy of intimidation, spreading hatred and xenophobia. One and the same lies appear so long that people think they're the truth. Although it is already quite clear today that the situation from two years ago cannot practically repeat itself, simply because we have closed ourselves in an airtight manner, we continue to address the demands for tightening in the National Assembly. Less than in the refugee country, we are talking more about how we must close our borders very closely and make it as difficult for refugees to live a normal and dignified life as possible. The right one spreads hatred based on lies. The government closes borders, tightens conditions for obtaining international protection, increases repression and the right continues to promote hatred. With important issues that we should really discuss, no one is concerned. Let's say how to ensure successful integration, how to enable the fastest possible integration into society, how to provide refugees with as much normal life as possible. Not a single word about it. The right hand also deals exclusively with intimidation. Meanwhile, asylum seekers and refugees are lost in the mills of bureaucracy and the state’s unwillingness to help them in any way. To avoid any confusion, we do not say in the United Left that migration trends do not need to be addressed. We could talk about a new contingent plan, about human resources reinforcements for the rapid and effective treatment of applicants, about updated integration plans. These are the solutions we need. These aren't. Instead, both the Government and its coalition and the right continue to support the military conflicts, the poverty of the Middle East countries, the travel of soldiers abroad, and the netting of new wars. People who run from these wars, you shut the door in front of their noses like that. You also deny them help and protection. In this place, of course, in the United Left, we will be immediately accused of helping refugees and of caring little for our people. After a year and a half in the National Assembly, we had to fight to get poor children free lunches. After 10 % of the richest in the country, the National Assembly has so allegedly donated 60 million. And after almost all of our proposals to improve the social situation in Slovenia have been rejected to date. Today, however, all the mouths are full of how citizens and citizens must first be taken care of, and it is quite clear that it is a matter of simple manipulation and a cheap collection of political points. In this place, the worst duality is visible to the applicant. The SDS, which continuously spreads hatred, protects people against refugees and uses these lies and manipulations as a basis, prefers to use this mantra as a priority for our people. Let's see how much she really did for them. And it doesn't take much more than an in-depth or a long analysis. With one law, with Zujf, with one pressure on the “yes” button, the SDS has done the following for our people: reduced the compensation for the hospital stock, abolished the free day as part of the day, abolished the free kindergarten for another child, abolished the so-called protected salaries, abolished the income allowance in the scholarship family, abolished the subsidy to young families for the first time to solve the housing issue, reduced the state scholarships, reduced the child's allowance, and simply abolished it for the 6th and 7th income classes, abolished the hospital for the unemployed, abolished the parental compensation, reduced the rights of war veterans, reduced the salaries in the public sector, limited the pensioner's regression and, of course, could also be listed and listed. They reached out to Zuyfa in 39 regional laws. The target was €332 and a half million in 2012 and €489 million in 2013. A party that has sought to take more than €820 million away from citizens and citizens with one single swing in two years, and a party that has abolished and restricted a number of rights with one single law, today is blaming the refugee for the hardships of citizens and citizens. It is quite clear who is responsible for the social hardships in the country. It is quite clear who is responsible for high unemployment. And this is by no means more than 400 refugees. There are so many currently in Slovenia. That almost 300,000 people live below the poverty line, that almost 100,000 people are unemployed, are responsible for the miserable social picture in this country, as well as past governments, among which, of course, the government of the SDS with Janša has done the most to increase social pressures. Of course, the applicants will not take responsibility for this. With a finger, they'd rather point at an external enemy. In recent years, this was a three-way, and today refugees are taking on this role. In the rush of right-wing populism, intimidation and hatred spreading, simple lies and manipulations are used to achieve their goal. All funds are allowed to achieve these political objectives. But all the credit for the rise in xenophobia and hatred is not just the SDS. This is, of course, also due to the Government of Mir Cerar. Instead of preventing right-wing populism, he even cooperates. It closes borders, denies refugees fundamental human rights, increases repression at all ends, buys water cannons and tries to convince the public that we are at risk. On both sides, the excuses are identical. All measures shall be taken under the pretext of a changed security situation. You've been trying to create more than half a term of office feeling like we're in some kind of emergency situation, although there's absolutely no indication of any danger. You all have something in common. For you share the view that it is best to rule frightened people. The more the public is intimidated, the less likely it is to resist any wrong politicians. It is not only the proponent who is to blame for the hostile public opinion, it is also on the part of the Government and the coalition and it is high time that this policy ends. In view of the power ratio in this National Assembly, it is primarily up to you, the coalition, whether you will continue to allow an ever more frank promotion of hatred based on these already mentioned lies and manipulations. It is up to you whether you will continue to allow the right hand to graze on a dominant public opinion that is paradoxically created by itself. Lies and manipulations have been repeated in the SDS so many times that many people truly believe that the refugee receives a thousand Euros per month, that he is in a privileged position, even though he has only the same rights as all citizens and citizens. Or that it's mostly about young single boys, which, of course, is not true. Or that it's a growing crime, even though it's impossible to prove it with any official statistics. I repeat, it is nothing but lies and manipulation, but, of course, the proponents do not choose the means to achieve their goal. What matters is the pear effect and nothing else. For all the tools to be used in the desire to take power, it is clear. It depends on the coalition whether it will continue to allow them to use this national assembly to that end.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u103	Sir, with all due respect to Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, let me remind you that the positions are intended primarily to express their own opinion on the content given, but not to deal with the opponents, whether they are coalition, opposition, we must stick to the house order. I believe we will follow this advice in the future. We continue with the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for her Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u104	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In recent months, we have demonstrated to a considerable extent the belief that the migration crisis in Slovenia has finally ceased. It is true that the largest migratory wave of autumn 2015 has not yet been repeated, but in the current geopolitical situation, the migration problem remains very topical. One of the key factors in co-decision on the flow of migratory flows is certainly Turkey or its President Erdogan. There are currently about 3 million migrants in Turkey. Turkey can quickly ensure that their good work is geared towards Europe. The agreement between the European Union and Turkey is extremely fragile and, on the other hand, the European Union has not shown the ability to come together and ensure proper control of its external borders. It is difficult to find a simple and uniform response to migration. We stress from Christian Democrats that much of the European and international public's attention is focused on helping refugees in the vicinity of their homes. Such assistance is most useful, effective and sustainable in the long term. This would limit the activities of smugglers and reduce the number of drowned migrants at sea. At the same time, we would ensure that refugees return to their homes as soon as possible and restore their country after establishing peace. the issue of migration is not only a challenge for Slovenia, it is the whole European Union, which has been well founded on it. Will we deliberately give up the resources from which Europe originated after World War II? The question is what can inspire us, connect us, encourage us, strengthen us and unite us to survive the European project. The answer must not be ideological, but cultural, bivanic. Europe will survive if we feel at home in it and are welcomed by anyone who wants to work for its future, to be inspired by religious or other spiritual grounds. Europe is still an inspiration to all those who want a peaceful and dignified life who want to find their opportunity elsewhere because of war and dictatorial regimes. Europe is a promised land for many. Of course, responsible policies are not naive, but they must seek balance and act to ensure security for citizens. The issue of migration is therefore also a security, social and economic issue, “yes” to peace and determined “no” to terrorism. We Christian Democrats understand today's debate in the sense that it is necessary to constantly remind the government that it is seeking appropriate solutions, but we do not want all refugees to be characterized by potential terrorists who live at the expense of Slovenian citizens. We support the proposal of the proposal for a proposal by the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u105	Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team! Fear has big eyes. The many demands of urgent and extraordinary meetings, the many questions raised by Members and the recommendations discussed testify that we are deliberately creating an atmosphere of hatred, intolerance and protection against migrants. Today, the National Assembly will deal with the migration issue for the fifth time in plenary session, as it has never been before. Not to mention that the latter issue has already been addressed by working bodies on eight working bodies, and Members and Members have asked more than 60 questions to the competent ministry on the migration crisis. Otherwise, at our previous meeting, we have only rejected the proposal for a consultative referendum on limiting immigration and rejecting the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union, proposed by a former member of the SDS Group. The reports proposed on the parent’s working body are full of untruths and deceptions. The proposed SDS recommendations state that the Government has not yet taken any measures to control migration, leave the issue of migration to chance and that it does not care about its own citizens, but only cares about migrants. That's just not true. The Government shall take measures, gradually and proportionately, to respond effectively to the migration situation. However, the activities of all the state authorities involved in dealing with the migrant situation are always focused on effective action, with special care also being given to security in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Why am I saying this? Because the majority of the population of Slovenia did not feel or feel the migrant situation in 2015 or today, because it is under control all the time. In the SMC Group of Members, it is recalled that the proponents in the recommendations call for the waiver of obligations towards migrants, persons with recognised international protection and applicants for them. Such recommendations are unconstitutional and constitute a violation of human rights, which are recognised by everyone regardless of their nationality. Article 13 of the Constitution provides that foreigners in Slovenia have, in accordance with international treaties, all the rights guaranteed by this Constitution and laws, except those held by the Constitution or by law only by citizens of Slovenia. They also deny the constitutional provisions, the rights of asylum to foreign nationals and stateless persons, Article 48 of the Constitution, and are also inconsistent with the obligations arising from the Convention on the Status of Refugees and the Protocol on the Status of Refugees and other acts of international law and national law. Infringement of the latter also constitutes a violation of the Constitution. Providing protection to persons seeking international protection means respect for international humanitarian law and human rights and the humanitarian and solidarity attitude of Slovenia towards developments in the world and towards civilians who are in armed conflict or who are persecuted in the country of origin. The Republic of Slovenia is a legal and social country which must ensure the rights of all citizens and citizens, as well as of other citizens and foreigners, in accordance with the Constitution, laws and international conventions. The objective of this government remains a responsible attitude towards this issue or a humane attitude towards people fleeing the war, while also caring for the well-being and security of citizens and citizens of the people of the Republic of Slovenia. We will no longer list the rights and duties of applicants for international protection and what they are entitled to. We've been through this before. The latter has already been presented several times in the debates in the National Assembly. Nevertheless, we would like to point out in the SMC that we find it absurd to argue that the latter are endangering the social security of our peoples and peoples. On day 19. 1. 2017 there were 423 persons with recognised international protection. Last year or 2016, we granted only 170 applications for international protection. It should also be borne in mind that the number of those established in the Republic of Slovenia is only 271. The data itself shows that the numbers are small. Let us also draw attention to the numbers at European level so that we do not lose focus. Last year, the largest asylum applications in Sweden, namely around 6 000 699 per million inhabitants, in Germany 5 000 266, in Austria 3 000 481 at least in countries such as Poland 8, Croatia, 24, Romania, 41, Hungary, 44, and Slovenia 85 per million inhabitants. We also reject the constant repetition of untruths and overstatements regarding standards and amounts. In the SDS proposal itself, it appears that a single asylum seeker receives €963 per month from the Republic of Slovenia. It's an old shit and we'll explain it now. It's a pure delusion. This calculation of the resources for the treatment of an individual asylum seeker is based on the Court of Auditors’ audit report, which revised the efficiency and legality of the use of State resources for the integration of asylum seekers. But the problem is not so much in the calculation, but in the abuse of this data. The truth is quite different. 57.9%, thanks for the pictures, because this amount is not about the salaries of employees at the Ministry of the Interior, an additional 18.6% are operating costs and maintenance of the asylum home. We need to know that under European rules we have to have an asylum home and an employee, if there are one or 100 refugees. And it's also cost-effective. Asylum homes, by the way, were here, and the employees were here before this crisis. If I go back to basic care and accommodation for asylum seekers, which means only 15.3% of the amount mentioned. This is not something that the applicants would receive in euros, but in the form of a bed, three meals a day in a Ljubljana asylum home, or some kind of exposure. The average monthly cost, directly related to accommodation and care and the assistance of the individual applicant, is €701. Of this, €372 goes from the state budget and the remaining costs go from European funds for the integration of refugees. Thus, the remaining EUR 262 is linked to the ministry's activities in relation to the treatment of all applicants. According to the data, the asylum application costs €9 per day and each applicant receives an additional €18 per month. They'll probably always be talking to you. Let's move on. One of the deceptions cited in the SDS recommendations is that the Slovenian government is preparing apartments with almost luxury equipment for the needs of migrants. First, it is necessary to make it clear and loud that the capacity in the Asylum House and the Integration House and in the Centre for Foreigners is limited, so the Ministry of Public Administration has also dedicated housing to address the migration problem. Housing, attention, is not exclusively intended for those who receive international protection, but represent a reserve. They showed no interest in renting by eligible applicants. The apartments will be equipped in accordance with the standards of housing equipment for office and rental apartments and are managed by the Housing Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These standards are from 2009. The standards define materials and equipment of a lower class quality, not as high as it appears. Once persons with international protection leave these apartments, the Ministry of Public Administration will be able to hand them over or sell them or do with them, which it is intended to do. We would also like to point out that the Constitution provides that everyone has the right to move freely and freely choose his residence. This also applies to persons with recognised international protection who are fully equal in these rights with citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. After obtaining the status of international protection, these persons may also seek accommodation at a private address, enter into a lease and live with the owner of the property in exactly the same way as the nationals of Slovenia. Now, with regard to these fabulous condoms, which so employ our colleagues. It should be noted that condoms belong to the Institute for Health Protection among basic hygiene needs. These standards have not been set by this government and this ministry, but by the Institute for Health Protection, now how much you believe them, I don't know, and they have been part of such calls for at least 15 years. For those of you who don't know, it's an accident. These are standards from the times of Janša's government, and the same is true of soap. Here we do not say that it is common soap that we all use, so called perfume soap, now everyone can see it and read on the box, what kind of soap someone uses, is this. Unless colleagues wish that migrants, due to different skin color, wash themselves with washing soap, which, by the way, is used solely for washing the laundry because of a composition that could irritate the skin, let's leave it. The above facts show that the debate on whether applicants or holders of international protection status have the same or higher standard of living and living as any other Slovenian citizen is unfounded and, above all, wrong. Missed for the point. As regards all these costs around which we revolve, with regard to the management of the migrant situation, let us point out that in 2015 and 2016 about EUR 50 million was incurred, with the Republic of Slovenia receiving at least EUR 10 million from European funds. In this regard, it is worth noting that the Republic of Slovenia also has fixed costs in relation to migration, due to the fact that we were forced to establish the systems and standards required by the EU by joining the EU. The Republic of Slovenia, once again, must have an asylum home, even though there is no applicant for international protection. And he must also have employees in this house. The country must be both materially and financially prepared for migration. But migration, I hope you already know, has not triggered Slovenia. The Office for the Care and Integration of Migrants has also been established within the mandate of this Government. Some say it's unnecessary, I think, regardless of the situation and how things are going to go in the future, it's necessary. The establishment of the Office was also necessary in connection with the amendment of the Foreigners Act, which entered into force in February of this year. The Office responsible for the care of migrants will bring specific tasks related to the rights and objectives for foreigners who are allowed to retain, displaced persons, persons with temporary protection, applicants for international protection and persons with international protection in Slovenia. With the establishment of this office, a systematic treatment of these categories of foreigners, including the provision of special care, is being established 24 hours a day and compliance with all European standards. Within the framework of its responsibilities, the Office will monitor immigration and refugee issues, give initiatives to this effect, proposals, organise accommodation, operation and care and ensure physical, organisational and human resources and administrative and technical activities. The competence to decide on the various status of migrants remains within the competence of internal affairs. In the SMC, it is recalled that the Republic of Slovenia will remain a human and solidarity member of Europe, regardless of the SDS recommendations, which will offer effective procedures, reception and conditions to applicants for international protection while respecting the Institute of International Protection. However, we guarantee that we will receive so many carriers, applicants, that we, as Slovenia, can provide them with adequate care and ensure integration, while ensuring the social and other security of Slovenian citizens and citizens, as a result, will not be curtailed. We will stand up for a tolerant, humane, open and solidarity society and absolutely resist the evidence of xenophobia. However, it is crucial for us that all political actors bearing responsibility contribute to humanity, solidarity and avoid all practices that promote hatred, intolerance towards any group of individuals. We believe that the proposal has recommended, by simply explaining the repetition of all the deceptions that have been heard so far, that it is contrary to the Constitution, laws, international conventions, so as a political party advocating open, solidarity and fair society and human rights, we reject the creation of tension and intolerance among citizens, which will be very difficult to eliminate and reconcile in today's and for a longer period of time. However, it is not possible to convince certain people of something they do not accept. And as the proverb says, Fear is lurking, and there is nothing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u107	Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I have enough time, I am last in line, and that is why I will be on a higher level than previous debaters, such as Mr Ferrug, who has read the expert's report from the United Left. You fell on that ladder, too. Okay, we know what this is about, let's move on. Look, you both claimed, both the United Left and you, that in our proposal, this is this document, this document, it would be good if you stayed here, I'll ask you something that this document claims, this is our document that the asylum seeker gets, these are your words, a thousand 963 euros. I'm calling you to tell me where it says, because I can't find it anywhere in this. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Could we, Mr. Möderndorfer, calm our nerves? Is that all right? Bo. [[advertising from the hall]] It won't work. Then go outside. Look, they both claimed that our request said that the asylum seeker would get a thousand 963 euros, which is a clear lie, even though they both claimed that we were lying. Now, I'm going to clear the following with you right now. Our request states that the financing of migration is a serious problem, as shown by the Court of Auditors document, which recently published an audit report entitled Efficiency and effectiveness of measures for the integration of humanitarian migrants. The report shall take place on 2 December 2016. The report shows that the monthly costs for the treatment of one illegal migrant who is asking for international protection or asylum in the Republic of Slovenia amount to at least EUR 963. That's what our request says. And you said that the SDS is lying because they claim that the asylum seeker gets that much. So they were lying. That is true, however, it is evident from the Court of Auditors’ own report, which on page 40, paragraph 1 above, exactly what we quoted in our request, is also recorded. Let's move on. In the beginning, the president of the National Assembly began reading fairy tales that no president of the National Assembly had ever afforded. So that I do not refer to the actions and actions of Mr Tsukjati, who belongs to my political option, I would prefer to refer to Mr Weber, who is here. Never, in any mandate, can Mr Weber confirm this, because he has been a Member and President of the National Assembly for so long, has what is now happening in the National Assembly. Anyone can do whatever he pleases, share with his right hand. Whatever you can do, whatever you can say, the reminders are shared on the right. The President of the National Assembly is already in charge of the opposition. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u109	Dr. Gorenak, I'm asking you kindly, I've warned you before, but I must warn you, too. Focus on your position, you'll discuss it later. I don't know what this has to do with anything, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u110	You won't stop me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u111	Please continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u112	I'll say what I think I have to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u113	And I have to warn you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u114	You can turn off my microphone and I'll talk, and the viewers will think the sound is gone, which you've already done. See, at the meeting of the committee that addressed this item of the agenda, the coalition, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, told us the following: With no conclusions can you interfere with the legislative branch of the Authority, with no conclusions should it interfere with the judicial branch of the Authority, because this is against the Constitution, this is illegal and you must not do so. However, we have proposed the following: The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia use all available legal, human resources, international possibilities for border security, human security and property security and for the establishment of controls on migrants' entry into and exit from the country. We have proposed some decision where the National Assembly recommends to the Government, and from the Government requires nothing, but recommends. A few days later, the coalition adopted the following decision at another point. We discussed traineeships in the judiciary and the coalition adopted a decision imposing on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide the judiciary with adequate financial resources and to report on the follow-up to the Supreme Court and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That means you have to report. This is not interference with the judiciary and the legislative and executive branches of power. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not agree to double standards! We're not docking! We're not landing and the Fertik! Let's move on. In the presentations so far, there have been many speeches about xenophobia, hatred, hermetically closing the border, lies that we are not talking about Zuyfu. Well, let's take a look at it in order. Can I read some xenophobic in our request? She's not here. Can I read some hate in our request? She's not here. Can I read about hermetically closing the border? She's not here. You know, hermetically closing the border, I'll tell you this. You need 24 thousand people if you want to put them only 100 meters apart. And we have 6,000 uniformed police officers and more, and then calculate what it is. One kilometer doesn't come in. And don't talk about hermetically closing the border. Someone also talked about the fact that the obvious lie of the right was that the most young men came to us in the great migratory wave. It's an obvious lie, he said, spread by the right. And hatred. Let's see the numbers. The Ministry of the Interior is 1. 3. 2016 published the following numbers. It is across the border from 2015 to 1. 3. 2016 went, you won't believe it, 285,000 920 men and 132 thousand 497 women. Of the 285,920 men who went across the border, you won't believe it, there were 192 thousand who were between 18 and 48 years of age. More. 124 thousand 470 of them were between the ages of 18 and 28. So who's lying? But SDS? Not [[..]] Let's move on to our request. See, on the committee – Mr Ferluga has already escaped me – there has been a speech on the committee that Mr Ferluga has now read about the same text, if we have to respect resolutions, we have to respect laws, we have to respect international obligations. [[…]] The Constitutional Judge and Judge of the European Court of Human Rights, Boštjan M. Zupančič, says that there is no international regulation and there is no national regulation in the Republic of Slovenia that would require the Republic of Slovenia to destroy itself. These are his words at the time of the adoption of the Aliens Act. Who do you believe now? To you or to the Constitutional Judge and to the European Judge? Who? So who should I trust? Why are you convincing me and why you're persuading us into conventions, you're talking about 500, 600 people who applied for asylum last year, and you're obviously hiding those 660 who wiped across the border, and they played a role in Slovenia. All of these 660s, which is an approximate number, we will get back because this is required by the Dublin Regulation and we are obliged to take them back. And now you're happy to talk about 400, 500, but you're forgetting 600. Why? I absolutely reject all allegations of lies. I've already told you some of them, and I've proved you wrong. I also absolutely reject everything about xenophobia, hatred of foreigners and so on caused by SDS. I'm absolutely throwing it away. The SDS or its predecessor in 1994, I don't know, there's only the president of Janša from those days, she didn't require any extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and there was no protest in the country when we accepted 70,000 people. I myself know the case of a man of Muslim faith, a policeman, after a profession at home from Velenje, 14 people had in his apartment. No one protested. We helped because they were who? [[…]] Who were these people? Men over 60, women over children. See the statistics in 1994. And where were they from? From the war zone, Bosnia. Croatia was not a safe country at the time. Even Slovenia received the status of a safe country a little later. We've accepted everything. We helped everyone. We fed everyone. And my client, or my predecessor, did not shout anything after this House. Today, the situation is reversed. The opposite is because people come to us from predominantly non-war areas. There are 29% of them coming from war zones. Internal Affairs Statistics are talking about going across the border, across our territory. Yeah, wait, what about 71%? They come from non-military areas. They are not even entitled to write requests because they come from areas other than war zones. Because there are absolutely economic migrants at the start. Absolutely. And nothing else. Why are they not yet entitled to write? Because they were in five safe countries. From Turkey forward. And they have no right to choose where they're staying. This is what is said in the European legislation that you promote and that you claim to be the only one that is saved. On the committee and here was a talk about how Slovenia is a credible country. 80 people per million were granted asylum last year. Why are Poles only eight to a million inhabitants? But the Poles are xenophobic then? Then what are they? And the Czechs, and the Slovaks, and the Hungarians, who all gave less than we did. Are they not subject to EU legislation? They are not subject to EU rules? It's a matter of government and nothing else. It is a matter of policy that one government has in this area. And the policy that this government has in this area is clear. Hello! Hello! Come on! Of course, these are your constituents. Now, as long as we are in this House, we will raise our voice in such a policy and we must raise it. Let's keep moving. These standards, which Mr Ferluga has discussed before. LCD TVs, and so on and so on. Look, don't paint me and don't paint us for office apartments that are equipped according to the standards that are in force in the state administration. Approximately 60 Members, a little less, have office apartments, including me, here in Ljubljana. Besides, I have the smallest idea that we're on the bright side that even exists, and I don't brag about it. But tell me, which one of you has such equipment inside. LCD TV, everything else. Okay, well, I see that one has, that's Mr. Horvath. Okay. More than 50 other Members do not have this standard. How many more apartments in the state administration - and we have in there from ordinary government officials to officials - are so equipped? Or it is now a new policy to give better to newcomers than it is to ourselves. That's possible, too. Just say it in public. That's right, too. The Health Department or who's already prescribed those standards? I am interested in EU rules. That is what I asked the Secretary of State on the committee, which EU rules say must be so kind that it must be such a shampoo and must be condoms. What rule does that make? And you say these are the standards of the Institute of Health. I don't know what the Health Services has in here. I don't know what they'd have. This is probably prescribed by some domestic or EU rules. That's not there, ladies and gentlemen! And don't sell it to me like a fog now, because I don't buy the fog for milk. Sorry, that's the way it is. The committee also discussed how few are actually coming across the border now. Only about 200 of them are received by the police at the annual level. I have dealt with this before the year 2000, and I know that the police, not just ours, are at the border on good border protection, which we still do not have, about 10% of the people. The rest of them get away like that. This is a statistic that already exists before 2000. There was another talk about it. Only 200 came to us. No, no, I'm sorry, it was on the board. 200 of them in the last period, said the Secretary of State, went on to Austria. He forgot to tell us that we were going to get them back, but he did not say how many of them came to Slovenia from Croatia. I'm more interested in that information than this. For me, there is no evidence of how many have gone from Slovenia forward to Austria, which we get back so far, this is not relevant to me. Data is how many came to Slovenia from Croatia. There was a talk about this office. You wrote in the paper that implementation would have no connection, this office for migrants, this is a clear matter. You created some new job, one director, his assistant, secretary and so on. At least this will be new costs if everything else is transferred from the internal ministry. If this could have been under the interior ministry even when it was most critical in this country, this was the year 2000 when 35,000 people were arrested by the police. And we've been treating them here. If this could have been dealt with by the Ministry of Interior at the time, then it could have been done in 2017. But the point is, the interior minister wanted to get rid of the story, because I would have supported that if I was a minister, wanted to get rid of it, there was nothing else, and you did one well-paid job. But nothing's better. That's what you have to say. We're a credible partner. Yeah, of course we're a credible partner. The professor also likes the one who sits in the front row, who gives the professor a little bit of cooperation, but not, Mr. Horvath, or not, who learns well the matter and the end. It's all like that now, yeah. He's a good guy. But the one who doesn't walk, he's a bit of a counter-professor, but he's kind of unwelcome. Is that right? Don't you? Okay, okay, then it's different with you than it is with Slovenia in general. But look, yes, because this is the same thing as Slovenia in Brussels. But if you nod, we'll do everything, you're a credible partner. Orban is what? What did the President of the European Commission say? [[…]] “The dictator is coming,” he said. Yeah, well, then you can be a credible partner. Okay, you are, yes, of course, but you are not credible with our citizens and do not protect their interests to the extent necessary. And how other governments protect them. That's a fact. There's something else about this fabulous report. And I'm going to keep saying that every time someone else comes along, I'm going to check in, or I'm going to have a procedural or whatever or a replica. But it's a procedure you always get, which sometimes never has been. Okay. You always get this, sometimes it wasn't, until that coalition was gone. On page 40, the Court of Auditors in the document, Mr Ferluga, Mr Vatovec, stated: "We have calculated that the average monthly costs for the treatment of an individual applicant for international protection are at least (note 90) thousands of EUR 963." So, the cost of an asylum seeker. The Court of Auditors and we in our group never claimed that the asylum seeker would get it. You know that. Now you say, SDS lie, lie, lie to lie. But you're lying. It's not going together, it's not going together! It's not going, it's not going together in any way! Since you obviously don't have this report, I made one copy for everyone, so you can read it. As far as the policy of the country represented by the Government towards asylum seekers is concerned, we have never, never, ever again, I will say, never, ever, Mr Matić, objected to the State accepting and considering real asylum seekers. But according to the international legislation you mentioned, an asylum seeker can come to us — how? With a parachute from the air or a boat in the Bay of Koper. Otherwise, he can't come to us. He can take the plane, but then the company has to take him back, as we know, according to the rules. When you refer to international regulations, tell me how they come to us. In the air? I've never seen one fly down from anywhere. Because they can't come. Yeah, that's right. And then don't talk about respect for human rights and so on. First of all, national law or international law must respect those who knock on our doors. First it must be respected by him and no one who entered the country entered legally. Nobody. Because no one came in with a parachute. Because otherwise we should play a role for asylum in Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, Serbia or Croatia. And none of us. It's not working. Of course, that's not the way the story works. What we have accepted in this national assembly is also related to this area. When we adopted the Commissioner for Human Rights about three weeks ago, he spoke and thanked the country of Slovenia – remember? – that in 2015 and 2016 it safely carried 20,000 people across our territory forward. The Commissioner for Human Rights is talking about 20,000, and he doesn't know there were half a million. That's the first thing. And the other thing. I refer to Dr. Zupančič and some other constitutional lawyers and judges of the European Court of Human Rights who say this should be heard by the Ombudsman, but unfortunately she succumbed to the injuries of NGOs and wrote a request to the Constitutional Court, as it will decide, we do not know. But you cannot violate human rights outside the Republic of Slovenia. Can we, as a country of human rights, violate the territory of Croatia? We can't. Because we exercise authority in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And if we tell someone that they can't enter the country, we can't violate their human rights. But the Commissioner kept repeating his mantra, his shit, and finally he said, "the news, because I have to," because remember, Mr Horvat, when I told him why he didn't protest against the English and write protest letters because the Rokavian tunnel was closed, which is the same. He, "I must know this in accordance with my duties" which means that it is alienated together as our government does. Just like our government in this area. I'll end up at this point. Once again, I repeat that we do not agree – and the proponent will call each time we need to – on things that are not written in our request and on things that we have never said and stop pushing them on us, and you are doing what you are prompting us to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u115	Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u116	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! Today's task is to present or, if you wish, to read the position of the Desus Group on the point of the Proposal for a Recommendation on measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of migration. Even though it's all coming together, I have to be honest with you, it's a little bit of a struggle, but I'm gonna do this job. In fact, the vote on the so-called recommendations of the SDS to the Government on the Internal Policy Committee on this subject has all been made. They were voted out by only three SDS Members, of whom five were all present at the meeting of the Committee. Indeed, these are only recommendations of the SDS and not of the National Assembly. And we could put a dot here and stop wasting time and do as much as we can instead. However, it is at the time of the so-called recommendations, because in fact it is only an attempt by the SDS at the expense of the netting of hatred and xenophobia to refugees to get some more votes in the elections, something has to be said. The so-called recipe recommended to the government is actually quite similar to the recipe from the past, select some numbers and stories and mix them up for as long as you don't get the demagogic mixture to sow fear, hate for different and bitterness. This includes claims in style, assistance to refugees is an unprecedented mess, it is the apparent unconstitutional and immoral functioning of the Government, which allows migrants an incredible superstandard, someone in this country is crazy, migrants are not an amorphous crowd, but an organized unit, because they all have the latest smartphones and so on. The list of such “trampisms” does not end. This includes the involvement of the mother of a single woman who remained on the road because her partner did not pay her maintenance or the mention of the unfortunate leukemia who had been robbed and placed at the door. In all these claims, a good old-fashioned farmer must ask what some refugees have with a single parent or a leukemia sick person. Of course nothing, but cooking all this in the same boiler, especially for people who blindly believe in the word, means that everyone in this country is guilty of being refugees. More specifically, the 170 who actually received this status in Slovenia. According to data for last year, a thousand 308 people applied for asylum, 620 of whom went elsewhere before the process was completed and 170 were granted refugee status. Unfortunately, this farmer in this House is obviously lacking. For example, colleague Branko Grims went to the Internal Policy Committee even so far as to condemn all European officials in Brussels, including the Cerara government, as a criminal association bringing refugees to Europe for their own benefit. And all, even Cerara, according to his final judgment, must be closed, lynched. Yes, we are so far away in this House. The supposed recipe of the said colleague that a lie must be repeated until it becomes true is in the purest form it can be seen in several times the repeated statement that every migrant per month receives, pay attention, earns, and this was a dictatorship used by the proponents to date, €963. The Slovenian worker gets four times less to work on the running lane and the pensioner gets even less. On this subject, the SDS raised a number of 60 questions asked by Members of the SDS, which was discussed at eight parliamentary committees and at five meetings of the National Assembly, which were forced by members of the SDS, not to count many press conferences. But what is really hiding behind this number that some use as a pin on a mine to lower the current government and push them into power? Thousands of €963 is estimated by the Court of Auditors to be the average cost for the treatment of an individual asylum seeker, but each applicant receives €18 per month’s allowance. 58% of the money for refugees is paid by people who deal with them in one way or another, and 18% is costing the maintenance of asylum homes. The total cost of accommodation and assistance per asylum seeker per month amounts to €701, of which comes from the State budget of €372, the remainder, almost half of which is settled by the EU. All of this has been explained in a number of detail, but everything is like a drum against the wall, as today's proponents repeat as a broken record that despite the hundreds of thousands of our citizens who are struggling with poverty, the refugee receives a thousand €963 a month. This account is something like the general budget of the National Assembly, which is almost 25 million, divided by 90, and thus declared that Member Grims and others each month receive more than 23,000 euros. A nice number, but it certainly does not hold, nor does it hold that a migrant receives a thousand 963 euros a month. Of course, it cannot be said that refugees pose not only a major challenge for Slovenia but for virtually all European countries. But such challenges need rational answers and actions based on the values and principles to which modern European civilisation is committed. But not with hysteria, with cruelty, with drowning, and with lies, and most important, with no understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u117	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Pojibich, you'll get your word later, please. Mr. Pojbich, do you want a word, I give you, will you say something? I'm asking you to stick to the basic bonton. Please! But not just our rules of procedure, our rules and so on. Mag. Bojana Muršič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Pojibich, I'm really asking you to calm down. In explaining the proposal for a recommendation on measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of migration, the proposal states that migration flows have been the biggest security challenge for Slovenia and the European Union since Slovenia's independence today. In addition, we can add that migration policy is not from today, but Europe or the European Union has unfortunately failed to deal with this problem for many years. All I have to do is expose Malta, Lampedusa, Italy and Greece. Thousands of people in refugee centers in inhuman conditions. Slovenia has been a part of these migratory flows for many years, but to a significantly smaller extent. Also because it was not a target country, but a transit country. In the second half of 2015, there was a refugee migration wave along the so-called Balkan route to central and northern Europe. In a good half year, over half a million people crossed the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, some of them remained in Slovenia, in centres or in an asylum home. For these people and people who have been accepted by Slovenia in accordance with an agreement on the relocation of refugees by the Member States of the European Union, adequate accommodation should be arranged. According to the accommodations, it is necessary to start dealing with them and to involve them in society, to teach them the primary Slovenian language and to bring them closer to our culture. It is only in this way that we can see over the years that these people have successfully participated in the work of our society. Why am I exposing this? The applicants saw that such mass migrations of migrants across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from countries where military conflicts have been taking place for many years now are not available, so they point out and delineate the accommodation or management of service apartments, in which migrants may also reside. Why is that? Because individuals or groups prevent immigration. And not only refugees, migrants, but also other non-Slovaks. Precisely certain TV receivers and stoves are the real theme to promote conflict between refugees and migrants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, whether with modest incomes, whether it be pay or pension, they also live below the threshold or on the threshold of poverty. However, we are confident that encouraging people to speak hostilely to foreigners or others will not bring prosperity to either. One of the points of the recommendations also discusses the use of all border insurance and border controls for the entry of migrants into the country and exit. Let me remind you of the public opinion on border closure. Approximately two thirds of the surveyed favoured sharp measures to close and control the border. Following the adoption of the amendment of the Schengen Borders Code, we are again subject to tighter supervision at border crossings. At the border crossings, it was the last two weekends to see the waiting columns again, including those Slovenian citizens – migrants who go to work daily in the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, whose control we have, either requested or supported, not only confined to migrants, but to all who wish/want to cross the Schengen border because of work, travel or vacation. Every crossing across the Schengen border is recorded. And that's it. Following tighter air traffic controls, tighter road passenger controls are also carried out in the south of the Schengen border. Whether this measure will contribute to the prevention of terrorist actions in the wider European territory will show time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u119	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First, the representative of the Magi's proposer gets the floor. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. One thing was actually common to the entire coalition and the United Left with it, so once again I can easily talk about the lefties together. It was a question that perfectly paraphrases Murphy's marriage, which says whatever you're told in politics, always tells you about money. Infinite words about aid, about refugees, about humanism, but in fact, there are words about money, ladies and gentlemen. I hope all the lefties sit down right now so no one falls off the chair when I tell you one thing. Money, ladies and gentlemen, doesn't grow on trees. Money is created by entrepreneurs, money creates an economy, it creates an economy, successful entrepreneurs with productive jobs. There comes money, they pay taxes and they finance everything else, including you, including bureaucracy. I can say it again and slowly, but I hope once it's enough. And why am I stressing that? Because you've all been saying, if, yes, what does this have to do with us giving 123 million a year to illegal migrants, with what's going on in education, with health care, with the pensioners, Mr. Desus' representative working straight out there, by the way, he didn't even get a warning from the president, and he took it seriously, and he lied, he lied so badly that we could use the real human expression when he spoke, and he didn't even get a reminder. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an understanding. If you take the money out of the budget, it's taxpayers' money, it's not your money, it's taxpayer's money, and you give it to someone you gave them out of a joint container and because you gave it to illegal migrants, it's less for children, it's less for health care, it's less for education, it's less for pensioners. Because money doesn't grow on trees, ladies and gentlemen! And do not say that one part of this is covered by the European Union. Who pays for the European Union? Money doesn't grow on trees again. As taxpayers, we also give one part of the money to the European Union and then it returns the money back. Nor did this money from the European Union grow on a tree, ladies and gentlemen! Together it was created by successful entrepreneurs something in Slovenia, something in other EU countries, and it was captured and transferred there. And he's coming back from there. If we give it to one of them, we take it from the other. Are we finally getting along? And anyone who claims otherwise is lying or has no idea what he's talking about. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when we spoke on the committee, I said the following case, which is evident, you can check it online. The week the government issued an invitation to live for illegal migrants, for asylum seekers, a document was published on the Internet about how they threw a single mother out of the apartment with her children. And it was winter, ladies and gentlemen! And the same week a document was published that I almost couldn't believe, and it was credible, even on the Internet, that someone who had blood cancer was being robbed because he couldn't take care of himself anymore. And they even ripped off his medical devices, which is a crime to my mind. But that's what's happening in this country where you're giving money to illegal migrants and putting it in crazy amounts. What you've been saying, of course, you've been exercising in words that it's joy. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the audit report, the official document of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. There's a sketch in it that says everything. And you can turn it forward, back or in between, if you want. It says that the cost of an illegal migrant amounted to €963 in 2015 and consisted of accommodation costs and totalling €262 and then special accommodation and provision of €701. A total of 1,000 Euros. I hope you all have so much math. And then one of you spoke about the European Union. How much is really a contribution from the European Union? With a net accommodation of €329 and other costs of €51, a total of €380. If you subtract this from this, you will still receive more than EUR 1,000 500 net from the pocket of the Slovenian taxpayer for each illegal migrant monthly. Once again, even that money from the European Union did not grow on a tree, it is also the money of Slovenian taxpayers, and it only circled through Brussels and came back. That's what you pay for, ladies and gentlemen! And if someone who has worked for 40 years gets 500 euros for 40 years, it's a shame. But it's a crime, ladies and gentlemen. This does not have anything to do with ethics, nor with morality, nor with the Slovenian Constitution. This comparison tells us everything. More. If we know that work in Slovenia is most taxed, then someone who works all day for that poor minimum wage and gets, let's say, everything he gets, about 700 euros, is taken by the country, with these little less, which means that three Slovenian workers work for one illegal migrant every month. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen! And this math is inexcusable. You can practice for two weeks, and it'll still be exactly what I said. And in all this, I have to say that you missed the point. I didn't say migrants were the greatest threat to Europe. Far from it, we didn't get along. They're victims and tools at the same time. Those responsible for this situation, ladies and gentlemen, are leftists, leftists here, leftists in Brussels, leftists in the institutions and all those who still hold the stand. They are the ones who are actually jeopardising Europe and Slovenia and against these warnings. For then they hide their works for great words: for we know that humanism, aid to the poor; the poor flee from war and hunger; let us help them. Then we witnessed in the beginning such absurdity that poor Slovenian families, who do not have to eat themselves, collected to help illegal migrants when they were transported across Slovenia, and they massed food away in whole cases. The one that poor Slovenian poor people really gathered to help. Because people didn't even understand what it was. Those who came actually had more money than those who were here. Then you're talking about xenophobias. Come on, what's xenophobia? Fear of strangers. This country, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we were in power, has adopted over 70,000 refugees from the former Yugoslavia, mainly Bosnia and Herzegovina. But, ladies and gentlemen, they were refugees, they were women, mothers, children, older people. But those who were capable of fighting were creating their own country down there. And we took good care of you here, there was no problem, no one warned that something was wrong. On the contrary! We all helped, we'd love to. Those who are now coming, ladies and gentlemen, are by no means refugees. They never were and never will be. And don't talk to me about legislation. It's been two and a half years. When I was first in this House, which I have pointed out, you can also check on television that the wrong notions are being used, that they are not any refugees under international rules. All I ask is that all legal standards, international and also those applicable to the State of Slovenia, be consistently respected in accordance with its legal order. All I ask is respect for the law. If this had been done consistently, none of what had happened could have ever happened. Do you know that this allocation of quotas, all of which, is contrary to the current acquis of the European Union? This is all because someone in Germany has invented that the Dublin Agreement, which no longer applies, is what is called an asylum shopping, which is allowed to go wherever you want, and then you come and go wherever you want. This is in total contradiction to those regulations that you have just spoken of as advocating. Under international law, when you come to the first safe country or to a really safe area in your own country, you have the right to apply for asylum there. But when you move on, it's your decision, but you're not a fugitive anymore, you're something else, something we call a migrant at home. As a rule, it is an economic migrant, looking for better conditions or other goals. And the treatment of this is completely different. But to hide all of this from people, they use flaxules. What a lovely place she's been put behind this counter before. We weren't talking about successful integration. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask one example of the successful integration of radical Islam into the Christian environment. I'd really like to see that. The one who says that deserves the Nobel Peace Prize. For radical Islam, ladies and gentlemen, is not integrated. It never is, because it self-getoises itself, is eliminated from the environment and then tries to rule the environment through a comprehensive law called Sharia law, which covers not only religious standards, but all other living standards. And that's all that's left in Europe -- and that's why I'm warning left-wing people -- seems perfectly normal. Today, European left-wing women dress up as burkas. It's really a burka. But you know, when the Islamic Revolution was in Iran, there were millions of women protesting against the burqa and against the route? Because they're aware that that means oppressing a woman like that. The lefties here support this, voluntarily. Yeah, great! Indeed, the world is already wrong, no longer functioning, today all speculative capital is supported by left-wing people. That was perfectly seen in the U.S. elections. Not all the speculative capital from Soros to Rothschild, until I don't know who was behind Trump, as I'd like to see here. To the last, in infinite amounts, they poured money for Hillary Clinton, of course, along with the Arabs and Arab capital, and so on, which is another story for themselves. It's exactly the same here. Those who have the most full mouth to fight against speculative capital, the left-wing men you have, you are financed by left-wing speculative capital yourself. But there is no other thing in this world today. Isn't that interesting? What did Vaclav Havel say? Your immortal soul of left-handed men. The problem with Islam is that people misinterpret it. I fear that many in this Chamber, because they think that what came from Bosnia once came to be Islam. You know, it's not Islam. For true Islam – Erdogan said that true Islam is always radical, remember this sentence – they are apostates, they are faithless, they call it Cafe. Did you know that? There was no problem with foreigners until migrants in the field of radical Islam began to be mass-imported, as this is a problem. Therefore, it is also the stupidest thing to use expressions such as racism. Besides, one interesting thought, I find extremely amusing if you find yourself racist, someone who jumps around with Karl Marx's shirt or Che Guevare's. But did you know that Karel Marx was the first to introduce racism as an ideology? In fact, Marx is a racist ideology, for Karl Marx has made it very clear that the Slavic peoples and the Basques, as well as some others, must disappear in the Holocaust. “They must perish in the Holocaust.” That's right, isn't it? Now, laugh a little bit more, gentlemen of the United Left. If I misquote, you'll be happy to correct me, and I'll search the Internet, and we'll see who's right. So what's the problem? By the way, Hitler was more consistent in the implementation of racist genocide, the Holocaust than the leftist combined. The leftists then turned it to the level of the class and the Nazis to the level of the race. But you know, crime is a crime, and it totally doesn't matter, I hope that all lefties are sitting in there again now, whether it's done on behalf of the race or on behalf of the class. Crime is a crime, ladies and gentlemen! And by the way, it's kind of symbolic that we're discussing this today on the eve of tomorrow's holiday, which is actually a holiday of collaboration, because this evening, so many years ago, the Liberation Front wasn't set up, which we're going to do today and we've been listening to all day of the lie, and tomorrow we're going to do it. An anti-imperialist front was established for the screening against England, France and America. It is said, hand in hand with the Nazis and fascists against the free world, against the civilized world. This is actually marked and celebrated, which is laid there by the wreath in front of that building over there in Ljubljana, where everything is green when I passed by. Is it really worth celebrating? I don't think it's a national disgrace to have such a holiday. If we had a day of rebellion against the invader, it was the ideal day of June 26, when we began to fight against the invader with a red star who wanted to prevent the creation of a independent Slovenia. In order to be perfect, however, all today will be filled with occupier symbols, when the day of the struggle against the invader will be formally celebrated. What did Vaclav Havel say? Aya, a lie is the immortal soul of a leftist. Now let's go back to what is actually the problem of the whole story by destroying civilization. Now it is no longer just a matter of destroying national states and the EU, which is just before the collapse, but it has already fallen apart in part, because brexit has already happened, it is a question of the existence of civilization. This is being pointed out today, even by college rectors, when they say that something amazing is that Europe, originally on the Christian tradition, is an equally established community of democratic countries, is becoming a socialist creation that is being forcibly Islamised. And here we are in the essence of the story, ladies and gentlemen. We are witnesses to the greatest social experiment since the collapse of Nazism, fascism and communism, when the most productive part is being done, the real young families, entrepreneurs emerge under the impossible conditions that govern here, because of your treatment of money and your crazy taxes, and migrants are being imported. And they're replacing the entire constituency. One part of the right parties involved, regrettably, participated or cooperated because he did not understand what was going on, and he played another game of someone else. What's behind this whole story? Yeah, money. Just like I started. What does Murphy's marriage say? Whatever the left-wings are telling you, they're always talking about money. It's business. For every migrant NGO there, the Italian prosecutors are now alerting, for NGOs are involved in this smuggling, and money is being made. Twice. Money is collected from them, and it is collected from the country as “help” to the poor refugees. It's business. And then, once these people are settled, the money that the taxpayers give again is earned. Do you think there is something different about Slovenia? Come on! Consider the case of Velenje, and consider the case in Crassus, when two pink young lawyers just bought an ex-coupler and now suddenly the rent is being paid there. And there will be more in the future. How would someone go shopping like this if they didn't know in advance what would be in there? If you know it in advance, it's business. By the way, it's a crime. I hope one of the institutions is watching this now. But the government must also be involved in this crime, because otherwise it is impossible for such a crime to be committed. Oops, then we're there when someone said how dare I. What did I say? The fact that part of EU and national law has been suspended is unacceptable. That's unacceptable. It's self-inflicted. Someone should be criminally responsible for that. But the consequences were extremely severe. As a result of this, Paris Bataclan was the result of the killings, resulting in stories now with terrorist attacks across Europe. Most of them involved precisely those who came with the migratory flow. There were nine of them in Paris, by the way. Two of these went through Slovenia, too. Why isn't that current gonna stop? It's just because it's a business because it's no help to the poor refugees, but it's a business driven by Arab money driven by the speculative left-wing capital of various Soros and others, and it's driven by political interests. And some are also working on fantastic political careers. For example, Erdogan and Putin, who have made excellent use of the EU over long and over time from their point of view. And her magnificent nonsense. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must prepare now. This is why we need to discuss this, because this story is not over by any means. According to official secret services reports, 30 million migrants are moving towards Europe at the moment. Most of them from black Africa now. This happens again, I say, they don't start a war anymore, so that no one naively thinks that if there's peace in Syria now, then there will be no more Come on, because it has nothing to do with it. [[…]] In the biggest wave, according to official UN data, you can go see them yourself, up to 28%, depending on time, people who came from areas where there were conflicts, and everyone else were from countries where there was no war. What kind of fugitives are these, then? In addition, they are refugees in the first safe country, not traveling all over Europe, as they seem to be, and then they are carried by their hands like poor people and something else. This, however, is a European collective madness, which is in the function of betraying its people's wealth and security only to destroy everything that is Christian and everything that is in accordance with the protection of human rights. Oops! Are we going to prove this? You know exactly what I'm talking about. And that, ladies and gentlemen, what is now happening across Europe, is such a double standard that no one can deny it anymore. Refugees are being talked about and people are being imported from the areas of radical Islam from countries where there is no war, but at the same time silence the real refugees of the Multi-urban Group, although Poland has one million refugees from Ukraine. And these aren't refugees. There, the European Union does nothing to help. He's still making a fool of himself and he's putting pressure on a multi-urban group to import radical Islamists. That makes it clear it's something else. It's not about being human. It's about being helpful. It is some new transformation of Europe that cannot end well anymore. Unfortunately, I am firmly convinced of this after what has happened in France, where two bad choices are now before people, the question of what will happen. In the short term, it seems to many that Le Penov is worse off because she is saying that she will make a referendum, not that she will be voted out, because now she sees how she has been with the British, but I personally think that she has significantly more options than Mr Macron, who is not a central politician, but an ultra leftist who has always said that, if I quote him from memory, Mrs Merkel has made the only right move and has saved the face of the European Union because she has opened the door wide. And that says in the country where Bataclan was where Nice was, where A was listed? [[…]] And that's what people vote for. This is really interesting how it is with the European electoral body. But the one who would be the only one who was good and good has fallen down on a personal story, and the matter is already over. And this is a problem for the whole of the European Union, not just for France, because France is so important. But Germany will be a bigger problem. In Germany, the insistence of Mrs Angela can mean that it will be easier to win left-wing and then we will have two ultra-left governments in both parts of the central engine of the European Union, France and Germany. What do you think will be the next day? Yeah, it's open again. Do you think Europe will survive this? I'll bet whatever you want it to be. If there is another wave of mass migration in the field of radical Islam, Europe will be Islamised, but the European Union will no longer be, because it will fall to more than one unit. Vselgrad will leave, then it is only a question of where Slovenia will be. I personally think that together with Visegrad, this is the only way for long-term survival, security and prosperity in Slovenia. And for development, ladies and gentlemen! Because one thing is forgotten. Economic development will also increasingly depend on security. You will see how little time will have to wait, and in Europe capital will also start to shift to safer areas. This is going to be a very interesting situation. But it won't take long to wait. Just as it didn't have to wait long for mass migration. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we have proposed those conclusions that we should prepare ourselves in time. We have pointed out that it is totally unacceptable that, with all the problems in Slovenia, there are 300,000 people living below or at the threshold of poverty, a month of EUR 963 per illegal migrant. After the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And then it's packed, yeah, you know, that's the cost, that's that cost, that's that cost. Yeah, what does that have to do with anything? These costs, if there were no migrants, would not be. Pika. It is said that these are the costs of illegal migrants and let us stop pretending. By the way, this does not cover the costs of those NGOs, there goes another €170,000 in smoke because it provides them with assistance from the budgets for legal advice in the procedures of migrants when they apply for asylum, according to their domestic policy of delaying the procedure, so that it is even more expensive. This is certainly not the case if you have read the Court of Auditors’ report. There are not even those famous condoms in there that I did not mention at first, but they seemed so important to my colleague from SMC that he dedicated a central part of his debate to them. The bad news is a bad thing, a real old saying, and I personally think it was a fellow SMC who perfectly demonstrated it in his debate. With this in mind, I would conclude and draw attention to the fundamental message that should be in this room today. Unfortunately, there's obviously no way to unify ourselves on it. First and foremost, it is the responsibility of the State to take care of all those objectively needed between its citizens and its citizens. Only then can you help others. And you need to help in a way that is most rational and does not mean endangering your own citizens and citizens. Therefore, for Slovenia and, of course, for the European Union, it is a complete madness for it to import foreign soldiers and foreign wars into European soil by importing a migrant from radical Islam. If Europe really wanted to help, it should provide safe areas there, help start economies there, help people survive and live a life worth living there. Such assistance would be rational and justified. But everything else is completely different and I claim, and with all my responsibility I claim it is today a project of the greatest social experiment that has ever taken place in the world since the fall of communism, Nazism and Fascism. Those three, who had been successfully collapsing for two years at the beginning of World War II, made it so destructive. Sadly, some have learned nothing from history. But we could learn from the words of some who were also on the winning side. What did Winston Churchill say? There is no more backward force, no more destructive force in this world than radical Islam. And add to this the word of Mr Erdogan: true Islam is always radical, and you will understand what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u121	Procedurally, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you, President. I admit I'm going to partly abuse this procedure, but I'm fine. Mr. Grimes, I don't know what kind of drugs you're taking, but they're obviously very effective. Your logic probably doesn't work that way either. You're saying that if we don't accept any fugitives, then there won't be any costs, but I think Marko said well that these are fixed costs that are or are not. So you have to reverse the logic. More refugees than we accept, these costs will be lower because money doesn't grow in a tree. Except for the president of one of the parliamentary parties who doesn't know where the proceeds come from, but that's the other thing. Comrade Gorenak said that the SDS absolutely rejects the accusations of xenophobia, hatred of foreigners and so on, but it is sad that you soon spoke about it and destroyed practically everything that Comrade Gorenak tried to defend. When you open your mouth, nothing but xenophobia, hatred and racism comes out. So I believe that attending this meeting of any Member who does not come from the SDS Group is the legitimacy of the same, hate speech, xenophobia, racism and, therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65, I declare the absence of all Members of the Joint Left in this item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u123	He's just announced he's going to obstruct it, but at the same time, I have to give him a warning because he abused it procedurally. You said it in the beginning. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At times, you have been more demanding in such matters and have always immediately warned the one who made a procedural proposal to address it to you, not to anyone in this Chamber, but to the presiding officer. This time, you got distracted, probably planned, that you didn't notice it, and that's how it went. However, I propose, Mr President, that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a debate on this item at one of the following meetings. We have given more warnings that we want to discuss this point and to set the agenda for the session in a different way. We have made this proposal at the College, we have warned when there were parliamentary issues, it is Monday, you have ignored all matters, and now we demand that we decide in the National Assembly and move this debate to one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u125	Let me see if we have to vote now or not. Is there any view of the Group of Members on this procedural proposal? The explanation or position of the Group of Members, everyone has the right, including the Government. Just like you do, everyone else has one. And the proposer, normally. They do. Article 64, paragraph 10. You requested after nine, and after ten, "there is no way to discuss the proposals concerning the agenda for Members. They may be communicated to the motioner, the Government, in the absence of a motion for a case, and to the parliamentary group. The oral presentation of such a message shall not take more than three minutes. Applicants may further explain the reasons for their proposal within a maximum of five minutes. Of course you'll get this last chance. The position of the Contingent Group of the Modern Centre was announced. Procedurally, I presume, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have not requested any matters concerning the agenda, because the agenda for the sitting is set. I have requested a decision in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 74, and this vote is to be postponed to one of the following meetings. And that's a classic vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u127	Well, then I'll read you paragraph 74, so you'll understand why you have to go back to 64. “The President, the Group of Members, the Applicant or the Government, where there is no proposer, may propose that the debate or decision on the matter under consideration be postponed to one of the following meetings. The postponement of the matter, which has been placed on the agenda in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 59 of this Rules of Procedure, may only be proposed at one of the following meetings by a parliamentary group, on the proposal of which the matter has been placed on the agenda." It's all good and it's all right. Now it's procedural. “This proposal shall be decided by the National Assembly in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 64, paragraph 10 of this Rules of Procedure.” I am now applying paragraph 10 of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members' groups and the Government whether they have any views on this. The position was announced by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u128	Mr. President, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u129	Okay. We're gonna have to decide this first, because we can't process here. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Conclusion shall be checked by vote; it shall not be different. It can't be procedural at this point. [[advertising from the hall]] Because of the need to vote on this. I asked all the parliamentary groups if you had your views. You said you didn't have it. [[advertising from the hall]] In fact, we cannot discuss other matters at this time. We are voting on the proposal put forward by our colleague Tanka on behalf of the parliamentary group and the proposer of this item, to move the debate to one of the next meetings. We're voting. There are 33 present, so we are not concluding. I'm adjourning the session. We continue the session at 5 p.m. and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-26-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u130	For the third time, I am putting to the vote a procedural decision to postpone the debate at this point. We're voting. Since there was no quorum for the third time, I am interrupting. You will be informed of the continuation of this meeting at a later date.
