ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 34th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Vesna Vervega, Mrs. Irena Kotnik, Mrs. Marinka Levičar, Violeta Tomić from 19:00 on, Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Peter Wilfan, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Mr Miha Kordiš from 17:00 on, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Benedict Kopmajer. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the State Council to the 22nd item of the agenda, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman to the 24th and 25th items of the agenda, Dr Mark Novak, the President of the Council to the 26th and 26th items of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic to the 26th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. Before we proceed, I would just like to remind you of both the workers in the National Assembly and all the Members that you have until the 18th of this month to apply for one thing that is the last thing in this mandate that will contribute to when we all say that we are human. We are moving on to the agenda of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday, 6 October 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We vote. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 34th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, the New Slovenia Group has already tabled two laws in the parliamentary procedure months ago, namely the Law on Courts, which provides for the establishment of special courts and special departments of the State Prosecutor's Office for the prosecution of banking crime. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, the majority in this house supported 37 members of the bill. So the marriage went through the first treatment. Then the committee followed. The committee rejected nine members of the bill. You put these two laws into Friday's session, but you didn't see the vote coming. My procedural proposal is, the President of the National Assembly, to introduce or propose that these two laws be voted on because it seems unacceptable to us that nine members of the Committee may be elected by 37 members in plenary. My procedural proposal is, the President of the National Assembly, to put the vote on these two laws on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u3	You know exactly what we're up against. And we follow the interpretation of the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to the provisions governing treatment in the home working body. The fact that the articles were not adopted on the working body means that there is no vote, and this is an explanation of 9. 12. 2009 As long as this interpretation exists and the rules of procedure are as they are, I cannot act against it because we have acted consistently in this practice. Procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u4	Dear President of the National Assembly, I have carefully reviewed the Rules of Procedure. There is no provision in the Rules of Procedure to prohibit voting on these two laws. And now for another important addition. In one legal country, the same things are to be decided on in the same way. If it is decided on the Committee of the National Assembly that the law is not suitable for further consideration, this law shall come to Parliament and vote on this decision. However, if it is obviously adopted or voted against by the committee, there is no vote. It doesn't make any sense here. If you look at it, the content is exactly the same, i.e. that the majority on the committee vote against the law or that the majority on the committee decide that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. And you, the President of the National Assembly, because what you said before is parliamentary practice, this is not in the Rules of Procedure, you have the opportunity to directly apply the Rules of Procedure and vote on these two laws on the agenda. Otherwise, you need to understand that there will be further flares of conspiracy theories, that most truly fear persecution of banking crime. Once again, it is undemocratic, and it is unacceptable that the 9 members of this national assembly are elected by 37 Members. The law was adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u5	There has already been a meeting of the Business Commission on this provision in this mandate. This meeting confirmed the interpretation which has so far been adopted, so no different interpretation of the Rules of Procedure has been adopted. Until a different interpretation of the Rules of Procedure has been adopted and until the Rules of Procedure have been amended, I regret that I cannot act contrary to this, because in this way I would have discriminated against everything that has been done so far. Unfortunately, I really cannot help and the decisions are in line with both the Rules of Procedure and the Commission's decisions on the Rules of Procedure. Why the same thing again? Another suggestion? For an additional proposal, he has the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u6	Mr President of the National Assembly, this practice seems really criminal and unfair to me because I cannot agree that parliamentary procedures should end at the Committee of the National Assembly, not at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Since you say that this is a matter of procedure, please, if you can, as chairman of this House, initiate a procedure before the business commission to amend these procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u7	What I can do is support you in your proposal on the business committee to discuss this. However, I do not intend to influence the decision of the business commission. And now we're really done with this and we're back on the 1st item of the agenda. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 37 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will answer the first three questions raised by the Member of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition. On this point today they apologized: Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport by 3 p.m., Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mag. Mateja Vraničar Erman, Minister of Finance, Mr Gorazd Žmavc, Minister responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, and Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Twelve years from now, they're all supposed to be in electric vehicles, and in 2050 they're all supposed to be happy. While this is not in the coalition contract adopted by this government or this coalition, I quote: “To ensure that confidence is restored in the financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the legal institution, responsibility for the resulting bank hole must be defined and the liability of members of the administrations and supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks must be sought.” A major task at the beginning of the coalition agreement. We do know, however, that reality is all but different from seven months before the expiration of this coalition. If we go into reality now. In the cabinet of the Prime Minister, Anton Zunič, a signatory to the million-dollar relief contract for Marjan Kramar, who later cost us 1.3 million euros, and a senior official or manager of the Bank Factor, which cost us almost 300 million euros. As Justice Minister, the President of the Government of Goran Klemenčič, who was then the head of the KPK, was aware of the billions of money laundering in the Nova Ljubljanska Bank and did not inform the prosecution, nor the police, in accordance with the valid banners. The Secretary of State at the same Ministry is employed or named Darko Stare, who was the head of the investigation at the KPK and who acted in the same manner as his chairman at the KPK in contravention of the normative basis. The police were headed by Marjana Funk, who was an assistant to the director of the criminal service at the time of the investigation of the Farrokh case and was directly involved in the Farrokh case. At that time, just before the government of Mr Janez Janša, the police closed the matter by putting it in pending cases, in short, to phase out, but did not act as article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act states. At the head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, you want to keep Harry Furlan, the person who was informed of the case at the head of the NPU. How should the authorities led by those who were in office during these frauds and should carry out their tasks not, now influence trust and new faith in the investigation and rule of law and the work of the authorities under your government and fulfill the coalition command you gave in this coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u9	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member of Dr. Ange Logar. With regard to the bank hole and many other frauds that have greatly weakened our banking system, let me first say that the commitment of this government is indeed to do everything it has to do, and this also works to help the perpetrators detect, sanction to the competent authorities and therefore establish an appropriate legal framework and carry out other activities that the Government can do. If we look at it, most of the credits that caused the bank hole were leased between 2004 and 2008. Then the then and subsequent governments found it somewhat difficult to find themselves in this situation because they were unaware of the scale and possible consequences of the crisis that followed. Then they began to respond. Our government is the one who has now come into a situation where it must as much as possible encourage procedures in this area to be completed as quickly as possible. Let me say that from 2012 until now the police have been dealing with such suspicions of crime. From 1. 1. 2013 to 30. 9. 2017, by September this year, the police detected and recorded 258 suspected crimes affecting both commercial banks and state-owned banks. During this period, the police filed 106 criminal charges against the competent state prosecutors for 138 crimes. With these allegations, I have reduced the statistics a little bit, but I am citing the exact data, 157 bankers have been contacted, and the damage found on the basis of only these criminal complaints is EUR 456 million. Of course, these processes continue, but since 2015 the number of crimes detected in this area has been decreasing and there are currently 35 such suspicions investigated by the police. Here the cases are now primarily in the hands of the State Prosecutor's Office and will, I hope, go to the courts as soon as possible where they will be dealt with before the courts and where there will be final verdicts and the police will deal with them another part and pay attention to how to proceed. You wanted to shift attention with your question to specific people, to specific names, that is, people working today within the government, its administration and so on. I find such a debate, such a public lynching as you want to portray it here, inappropriate. In fact, none of these persons, as far as I know, have been informed, nor have they been legally accused if I am now talking about all of them, for any crime in this area. If the charges have been filed, so they are pending, they will probably prove credible or not before the prosecution. But at the moment, I have no concrete, tangible reason to consider that they are not suitable for the performance of the function, given the concept. On the contrary, I believe they are performing their task in a responsible manner. Let me say that our government, and here I do not want to go into personal discredits, has taken office after the bank hole has long been created and when the consequences have been felt very strongly by all citizens. This has happened in previous periods, but we have taken decisive action not only to investigate the bank hole but also to address systemic changes and measures to stop the abuse of tax money. For example, if I mention only a few measures, because time is not enough, we have arranged for access to data protected as a bank secret. Then, for those who have established a legal obligation with the DURB, the penalties for corruption crimes against the economy and against official duty have been increased, the limitation periods for corruption crimes from 10 to 20 years have been extended, and the effectiveness of prosecution has been enhanced. We have carried out 30 new jobs in the State Prosecutor's Office, we have substantially strengthened them, which has been the greatest reinforcement of the State Prosecutor's Office since its independence. Then we made it easier to prove the intent of committing a crime of abuse of the position and so on. I may be able to explain more further in the future. We have adopted very many systemic changes that allow the police, the prosecution and the courts to sanction these acts accordingly, so that we wait for the proceedings to be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u11	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The president of the government pointed out that I mentioned people by name. Just as we will name this government with the government of Mira Cerar, and not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and weigh its success, we will also measure the success of the individual organs by the work of the leaders of these organs. Therefore, it is normal for persons who have been involved in or engaged in other transactions to assume responsible functions to raise reasonable doubts that they will perform this function successfully. Now, similar staff of the government of Mir Cerar or its sub-institutional institutions is even the sea. I can list them all day long if we vote that this will be discussed in the National Assembly, but look, the Investigative Commission to Identify Responsibility in the Banking System is one year ago a unanimous decision to call on the Ministry of Justice to prepare everything necessary to establish a court for the prosecution of financial crime or banking crime. What did you do in one year? You have rejected the proposal of an opposition parliamentary group. Come in. One month ago, the Commission of Inquiry proposed and the National Assembly accepted that SDH was required to prepare a report on the Farrokh case at the largest NLB State Bank. What did you do in one month? In particular, please. In the coalition agreement, you are required to require compensation and substantive liability of members of the board and supervisory boards of recapitalised banks. What exactly have you done in this area? How many requests did you make? And very concretely: Does Mr Klemenčič still enjoy your confidence in all the matters that have taken place in connection with his past function and also in all the proceedings that have fallen in court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u13	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u14	Your Honor, you know I have two more minutes to answer that question. You have asked so many questions that a serious answer would require much more. Let me just explain this first. You say that responsibility must be identified individually and by name. I always agree with that, but not just by accusing someone without evidence. I don't know that any of those you mentioned would be in any criminal proceedings, but I remember a lot from the past, and I think that when we have a time when the debate doesn't take place for two, three minutes, it will be very interesting to know when the bank hole was created, who didn't do it to stop it and so on. But we will probably talk about this another time and there will also be concrete names available. I would say once again that it is not true that this government does not deal with this problem. This government has set up, as I have said, and could also state, but there is not much time, much of a systemic change that allows more effective prosecution of all these acts, which are linked to the damage to banks, to taxpayer money and so on. I also absolutely reject the various allegations that we are not active in the Farrokh case. As you know, I have already explained here to the National Assembly that I expect and have also instructed the competent authorities to do whatever is necessary to further investigate these matters. If these matters lead to some findings at the level of the police, other state authorities, the Money Laundering Office, whatever, they will continue to be processed. As will continue, and I very much welcome this, the investigation that will take place before the Commission of Inquiry, which will address this very issue in particular. I also think it is very good that all three investigations or hearings are being conducted before the three Commissions of the National Assembly, not least before yours, which has already done quite a bit of good work. So together, the government, the National Assembly, all the carriers, including the competent ministries, will round up the picture. The point is, however, that in most cases cases cases cases cases have been handed over to the State Prosecutor's Office. They're processing now, and that's no longer the government's jurisdiction. These authorities act independently of the Government on the basis of professional criteria and as President of the Government, I can only expect and express a public call for this procedure to be translated into the courts as soon as possible, in accordance with the expertise, to be completed there. I believe that they will also receive appropriate epilogues, especially because we are establishing a better legal framework than in the past, so that the culprits will be more easily exposed and punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u15	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you, President. I think that we should go to the President of the Government when he said he doesn't have enough time in three minutes to clarify everything he wanted to say about this subject, even though he hasn't answered any of my questions in the last three minutes. He did not reply to whether he trusted Justice Minister Klemenčič, did not reply whether SDH had been ordered by the Government as a assembly to prepare a report on the Farrokh case by Nova Ljubljanska Bank, and did not respond to concrete activities taken by the Government in the area of the preparation of a specialised court for the prosecution of organised crime. Three very short questions that require three very short answers. They can be one - folded — yes, no. Nevertheless, I think that, as I said, it is necessary to listen to the President of the Government, and he needs to go across to prepare a debate in the National Assembly where we can answer these questions. I am surprised, however, that the President of the Government, a SMC party with both the judiciary and the internal ministry, two key levers for investigating banking crime or money laundering crime, is placing the greatest hope on the investigative commission led by a SMC member again to investigate this case. This, however, is slightly abnormal or an unusual scheme of relying on the discharge of responsibility. But I understand that he was in a dilemma, in time trouble, so I suggest we do a detailed investigation. I would like to conclude with the words of the Prime Minister, who went to the elections, that he said: “It is enough that good people do nothing for the victory of evil.” If we think that there are good people in the government, it seems that so far in the area of banks, the prosecution of banking crime has done nothing or very little. You've got seven months. If you want to be good people in the end, the time is running out, so that I suggest that at least here in the National Assembly we open this debate, we hold a very detailed debate with the presence of the President of the Government, who will be able to explain everything and also tell whether he still trusts Justice Minister Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u17	Dr. Ange Logar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the votes. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As early as 2011, 6 and a half years ago, this two-thirds majority national assembly adopted a declaration on the situation of the national communities of the peoples of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. For more than 10 years, an organised struggle between Albanians, Bosniaks, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Croats and Serbs to regulate their position and status by entering the Constitution. Unfortunately, the only thing we were able to do in almost a quarter of a century of our country was to adopt this declaration. This adopted declaration gives rise to a clear intention and also to the commitment of the State to regulate comprehensive treatment, status and rights at constitutional level. This is also, in fact, the only appropriate solution in the Constitution to provide a basis for regulating cultural rights by special law. More than three years have passed since you were the Prime Minister of the Government and since you signed a coalition treaty, which, as a measure in the field of political system and human rights under point 12, also contains an obligation to regulate the collective rights of the national communities of members of the former SFRJ in Slovenia, but you have not done anything in this area to date. We in Levica, unlike you, have consistently respected our pre-election promises and have consistently advocated respect for human rights. That is why we have also drawn up a proposal to supplement the Constitution, which would state in the Constitution that Albanians, Bosniaks, Montenegrins, Croats, Macedonians and Serbs living in Slovenia, minority national communities and that their position and collective rights are regulated by law. However, the opening of the procedure requires 20 signatures from Members. Despite your clear commitment to the coalition treaty, we have not yet received the required number of signatures, and I would like to stress that we have not received exactly any signature from the coalition Members, not from the largest SMC, not Desus, not the Social Democrats. That's why I'm asking you: Do you support, as Prime Minister of the Government and President of the largest coalition party, the constitutional recognition of the situation and cultural rights of the national communities from the breakdown of the SFRY? Do you intend to fulfill the commitment enshrined in your coalition agreement? Are you or your opinion the reason why SMC Members have not yet contributed signatures to amend the Constitution? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u19	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much, honourable Member Violet Tomic. First, I would like to say that, both personally and as President of the Government and also as President of the Modern Centre Party, SMC, I believe that the position of the nationalities communities of the former SFRY as well as the other nationalities communities for Slovenia is very important and that the regulation of this situation is a prerequisite for their integration, in fact, for the benefit that we have from this, not only them, but all the Slovenians we are working with them. The SMC party itself and, as President of the Government, we encourage all measures, that is to say, we support all measures that go for the benefit of these nationalities communities and their good co-existence with us here in Slovenia. To this end, we know that some of the key competences are vested in the Ministry of Culture and its competent office. Since the beginning of the mandate, we have also been talking to representatives of these communities about the legal improvements in the regulation of their situation in Slovenia. Let me make it very clear that I am also personally inclined to have the possibility that specific cultural rights, i.e. specific rights in the cultural field of these nationalities, especially those of the former republics of the former common country, can also be regulated by the Constitution, at constitutional level. Of course, I must stress what we all know and what is very important to point out that all these people, these fellow citizens, members of these nationalities under the Constitution, already have every opportunity to express their belongings to their people, communities, to strengthen their language, national identity, culture. This does not last give us as a right as an option the declaration we adopted years ago. But it is true that things can be improved in these areas, but this also requires some consensus by the community, because these communities are quite something in Slovenia, more societies with which we are talking. When we come to a consensus, we will all be happy to complement this catalogue of rights or the scope of rights in the cultural field — language, expression of some kind of membership, cultural participation and so on. However, either this is a type of constitutional change, or it is more fundamental than you suggest, when it comes to changing even the status or establishing some new status of these minorities, it is in fact a very difficult task that the National Assembly performs in the first place, since an absolute majority is needed, i.e. a two-thirds majority of all Members, for such a constitutional change. We know from practice that it is inappropriate and wrong if, in any case, by initiating a procedure, such as a constitutional procedure in this case, the representatives of these communities have the feeling that there will be a constitutional change and, in fact, there is not enough will for constitutional change, there are not enough votes in the entire political space. That is exactly what I myself have found with the help of some who have checked this support among the Members of the National Assembly themselves. For once, it is not realistic to expect as much information as I have to allow such a constitutional change to take place. If it turns out to be supported by two thirds of all Members, I will not object in any way. Like I said, it's clear that this is very responsible. If you initiate a procedure for constitutional change, it is very important that you do it properly to the end, just as it actually is – both for Parliament and for those concerned by this constitutional amendment. I believe that here we must continue to do absolutely all the good and the best we can for the members of these communities. I believe that we can achieve some very constructive changes at the legal level. And if we coordinate tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I'm sure we'll receive them immediately. With regard to constitutional change, however, I must leave this opportunity to the honourable assembly to assess whether it can come to it. In such a case, if the procedure starts, the government will certainly be very active in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u21	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u22	President of the government, I don't know how to take this answer seriously. Really. Should I point out how many false things you have mentioned, or should I point out earlier your complete unwillingness to solve this? First of all, you said it would take a two-thirds majority to change the Constitution. You have this majority and a great influence within the coalition and do not in any way impose responsibility on others, because it is a complete lie that then you do not have any power here. The second thing that is completely uncontainable is that these cultural communities have not aligned themselves. Here I have a 2014 memo, where the signatures are all of them, here you have a representative of the Albanian national community, Bosniak, Montenegrin, Croatian, Macedonian and Serbian. They agreed to ask the government to settle the matter. Since 2014, this has not come to the table and to the agenda. Your participation and obedience in their well-founded proposals are neither creative nor creative. The Council of Governments on questions of the national communities of members of the peoples of the former SFRJ has recently also been addressed to the request for a suspension of three years of lingering silence in this regard, and I am interested in: What did you do about it? The declaration clearly mentioned the amendment of the Constitution and was adopted by more than 60 Members. How can you ignore and completely miss the wishes of these Members? What are your concrete arguments against supplementing the Constitution, because, as we know, this is the only appropriate way to achieve recognition of status and cultural rights? Thanks for the update.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u23	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I can actually be very brief because I've already said most of the things. First, let me reiterate that the two-thirds majority is the criteria needed to meet the condition of amending the Constitution. If there is this two-thirds national in the National Assembly, if there is this will, I will be very happy, because then such a change, which is the best for this national community, will certainly occur. But I would like to point out that, according to my information, this agreement is not present and, last but not least, the proposal has not been tabled. I believe that this is a matter to which the National Assembly must actually answer. This is a matter that concerns the founder in particular, this is the National Assembly. However, the government will always help with information, with initiatives, with all possible means available to it. Let me say it's not true that there was no dialogue. Of course, dialogue was held in several segments with representatives of these communities. The modern center's client also had some conversations with them, and I believe the others. We check the political will to reconcile ourselves, where we can do the best for them together. I assure you that if there is harmonisation in the coming weeks or months as to the possibility of legislative changes in favour of the members of these communities, the Government will surely propose this, if not the parliamentary group itself. On the other hand, as it is said, regarding constitutional change, the Government is not the first one to ensure that it comes to it. That is why we need this further dialogue, some kind of contact that will lead to the will to do so. So that's what I'd say. But it's not true that I'm telling the truth. That's what I strongly reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u25	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u26	Look, after so many years, when nothing has happened in this area, I think it is high time that we settle these matters and finally close this issue and recognise their status in the only appropriate way. We can now do this only by initiating a procedure in the National Assembly to amend the Constitution. All you've mentioned before is a matter of procedure. We only wanted 20 signatures so that we could open a debate on this. You have the option and if you win the votes of 52 coalition members, you have ours, you will probably also get representatives of minorities, you can ensure this required two-thirds majority, but first we must show the will to do so. That is why I think it is essential that we hold this debate at the next meeting, because you are the constitutional lawyer and you know what the best procedure is here and that everything you have highlighted weighs and changes only after the process begins. I don't take your answer as anything but avoiding my question. How we will record how the process will proceed to be the most appropriate solution is, of course, a matter of the Constitutional Commission and an expert group to be appointed. So this is not at least why you did not provide at least support to the Left Group on our initiative and that you did not provide the necessary 20 signatures. I propose that this issue be discussed at the meeting and that we finally close the minority issue and eliminate these injustices, for this is our duty. The matter is not minor, it is more than 200,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and all citizens are equal under the Constitution. And I will say something else: Slovenians in all the countries that have developed since the collapse of the former SFRY enjoy much more rights than we, who are supposed to be a model in this territorial area, provide minorities who come from the collapse of the former common country. So I hope that you will support me in asking for this debate, because it is time to settle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u27	Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the vote. Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u28	Dear Prime Minister, in my work I often meet people who complain that they live in a country that does not provide equal treatment for all citizens. I can see for myself that it looks like we have two legal states. One applies to small people, good people and workers, and they are also punished for small offences with high penalties, which they must pay quickly, although the penalties are often disproportionate to the severity of the offence. The other legal state applies to certain chosen ones, the so-called “big fish”, who are allowed everything, including dishonesty and greed, but are not responsible for it. Slovenia must not be a country where double criteria apply. Let's just look at the bank hole we're talking about a lot. For EUR 5 billion, the high bank hole we covered by taxpayers, none of the responsible bankers have been criminally or indemnity accountable. Is this a fair country? That's why I'm asking you: What will the Government do to ensure a just state in which the laws will apply for all the same? My goal is and the goal of New Slovenia is to finally make Slovenia a just country for everyone. If we don't prosecute large scoundrels, then we give honest citizens a bad example, and they are justly sad and lose confidence in the country and its institutions. Dishonesty must be punished, or it will be repeated again and again in the future. Also because Slovenia does not offer equal conditions for all, young people leave it. So you have an additional option, you said earlier that there was not enough time to say: What will your government do to ensure a more just country in which the laws will apply for all the same?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u29	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Ludmila Novak. Consistency with the rule of law is certainly one of the most important objectives and commitments of this government, and we have committed ourselves to this, as you say, in the coalition treaty. I understand people who are assessing and many also justified that the rule of law does not work optimally, that justice is too often too slow, and that it is not always as impartial as it should be. It's a fact that exists. But also in order to overcome this, gradually, but persistently, we have done a great deal in this mandate, so that we can improve the situation. Where we have powers, this is said in the organisational, legislative and human resources fields. We do know, however, that the executive branch of the government can neither sue nor judge a prosecutor or a judge, nor investigate a way of investigating politicians, but do so by experts such as inspectors, police and others. So it is also the responsibility of these authorities to change. This does not avoid the responsibility of the Government, but it must be made very clear that, in fact, responsibility for the rule of law is divided into all. So part of the responsibility lies with the authorities of detection, part of the prosecution, part of the judiciary, part of the government with the ministries, and part of the responsibility is borne by all citizens. And here it should be said that sometimes legal awareness among citizens is too weak and should be encouraged, as we encourage it in the authorities. In the mandate of this government, in particular in the area of prosecution of the most demanding economic crime, as I have said in part before, regarding banking, we have taken a number of measures. Some have also been confirmed by Members of the National Assembly in the form of legislative amendments. This is particularly important because we address through prosecution for crimes and other criminal acts, in fact, those that are most influential in society in the most influential places and positions, and by doing so we are actually trying to level this position in order to achieve the greater equality that we all want. Thus, among other things, as I said before, we have increased the penalties for corruption crimes, extended the limitation deadlines for economic and corruption crimes, strengthened legislation, and this criminal legislation in the field of tax evasion and money laundering. For example, we have restricted the possibility, which we often see in newspapers, the possibility of abuse of medical excuses in order to avoid criminal sanctions, which is some of these practices, and perhaps most importantly, if I mention another, we have changed the elements of a criminal offence of mistrust in the conduct of economic activity. This is a typical crime of banking and economic crime, which is now comparable to other European regulations and makes it easier to prove. So, the government does this, the National Assembly then adopts the law to criminalize crimes for each other, i.e. less wealth, more wealth, in positions, those others, are such that those who are up there, as we say, in banks, in power structures, at the top of businesses will also be held accountable. It is forgotten that until this change, which I have now introduced and which was confirmed by the Government's proposal in the National Assembly last year, Slovenia was among the countries that demanded the highest possible level of proven guiltyness for bank fraud, this is said to have been the most difficult for us to detect these bank frauds. If they hadn't made this change for me, many people who are now going to stand before the courts wouldn't be responsible for their actions. And I stress that these proceedings are ongoing, but they are in the D.A.'s domain and must reach the courts. We have no direct influence on this, and politics must not influence it and so must it. The legal profession must work here, and here we appeal to the legal consciousness and responsibility of the holders of these functions. This government has also prepared large-scale changes to the key regulation, which lays down rules of the game, some pace and accountability in predictive and criminal proceedings, namely the CAP, the Criminal Procedure Act, which has not been amended for more than 20 years. Here I call on you to support him in re-voting, because here there will be many changes that will bring about this equality in law, and above all that those who commit major crimes in more responsible positions will be more penalised. Let me just give you an example. Last week there was a 100th hearing of the re-trial ruling in the Balkan Warrior case. Why? Because we have such regulations that higher courts can constantly bring matters back to a lower level. However, the new CAP will require decisions from the higher courts and not return to the first stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u31	Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u32	Dear Prime Minister, we often listen to what you have done, but unfortunately we still do not see the real effects. Still ordinary people pay a small fine of €3,000, such as for a gifted product at a fair, while none of those who have made a bank hole have yet been responsible for it. It is sad that a committee of the National Assembly will find out more about this bank hole and money laundering than the competent state institutions. And that's worrisome. We all know this case of laundering Iranian money into the NLB and that the bank is supposed to be warned, the government, everyone is supposed to be warned and the institutions are supposed to be doing it and there is no result. If it wasn't for this commission of inquiry, we wouldn't even know about it. That's why I'm asking you: What would you do if you were informed that money is being laundered in such dimensions in a state bank, what would you do as Prime Minister of the Government? And we're also wondering: Are similar actions taking place in the State Bank at that time, or are we now more secure, or are we safe or competent institutions working long enough to prevent them? How do you follow it, and what would you do if you were informed of such a situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u34	Had he been informed of illegal or unethical conduct, he would have acted in the manner he could, he would have called on the competent authorities, especially the police, inspectors and others, to investigate the matter without delay, to catch up with the perpetrators of such acts and then to proceed with the proceedings. Now you're asking me what I'd do, but that's what the previous governments should do. Last but not least, you've been in one of these governments, and I'm listening all the time – a bank hole. Why do we have a bank hole, but why was it, and why did we all pay so many billions to fill it? Because there were not enough control mechanisms at some point. And this is not an accusation now, but this is a finding of some fact that you want everyone who ran the country at the time to hide and now pay attention to diverting attention to our government. Our government has not made a bank hole, and I also believe that it is establishing better and more appropriate mechanisms, that it will not come to it and that there will be no other fraud in banking. And I believe that today we are significantly safer than we were during 2004-2008 or 2008-2014. And an example of money laundering in the NLB, it happened in the time of the previous governments. Like I said, as soon as we found out, we did the best we could. The competent authorities have been instructed to investigate matters as closely as possible, but we cannot adopt retroactive rules in return, because this is unconstitutional, we can only act in accordance with the laws now as we can. We are acting at the level of the Government, we are acting at the level of the National Assembly, and we will see where these investigative actions will now lead to. If it comes to finding the culprits and finding out that it was illegal conduct, which is very likely especially in this case that you mentioned, I believe that the competent authorities will act. And that's all I can say. As President of the Government, I am absolutely defending the rule of law, equality before the law and the need to act and to send those who have done something wrong to the courts, to condemn and punish. It's over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u35	Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u36	Of course, I have this procedural requirement, because we must not give peace to all institutions in the country, to actually find out who are the ones that caused the bank hole. I have certainly not accused you, Mr President, of having done this, but I have asked you how you would have acted if you had found out. The President of the Government has to act, to ask what results have been achieved by the competent institutions. He can't and can't look away, so he's responsible. If I had known that for sure, I would have acted, but I didn't know it, even though I was sitting in the government for a year, but the bank hole was happening a long time ago. I just want those who have done so to be responsible that you are the ones who are calling upon them to do so, asking them to actually do so. However, I am disappointed, I must admit that our laws on specialized state prosecution and prosecution of banking crime have been rejected or rejected on the committee because in the first reading, the majority of Members supported this. We also supported the NLB report, where we also wanted this to be further explored in order to establish strengthened competent authorities for this. So now I am disappointed that you refused to do so on the committee and that we will not vote on this even in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, then, I can't believe we're serious. In any case, I demand that we give the Members a clear sign to all thieves and also to the competent institutions that we must get to the bottom of this, so that we do not keep repeating the same things.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u37	Mrs Ljudmila Novak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Matjaž Han, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers! In Slovenia, we have had solid economic growth over the past few years, which is reflected in various statistical indicators, such as the growth of the social gross product and, above all, the reduction of unemployment. I think we can be very proud of that. I see the reason for these statistics mainly in the fact that Europe is making some economic progress and the decisions of our government, your government and the previous governments have led Slovenia to come out of this crisis. We have released some austerity measures in this mandate, and some still need to be released. We have ensured that the poorest groups, especially pensioners, will receive higher benefits and we have also moved some important infrastructure projects. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget the importance and role of the municipalities, which in the most difficult times of economic and social crisis have borne a heavy burden. Although they did not have enough resources, they knew by European means this investment cycle to drive where, in fact, the country then moved in some way. It is therefore important that we know how to maintain a partnership with the municipalities in order to benefit citizens and citizens from this partnership. Over the past four years, something has been done, something very good, and we still need to find that many people, including some who are in a more vulnerable group, live hard and have not experienced all these consequences of economic growth or these good statistical indicators. And you know, the Prime Minister of the government, unfortunately, from the statistics, people can't go to the bread trade and things that concern them every day. Therefore, in some way, the honourable President, I also ask you in the light of the elections, that we will not all break up in some way together, and that we will not make too much promises: What measures are envisaged to address the austerity measures by sector? What key investments to boost economic growth have created new jobs to somehow bring this mandate to a peaceful conclusion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u39	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u40	Dear Member Matjaž Han, thank you for your question. As you yourself said, the government, I believe, is working with all of you in the National Assembly to do as much for the people as possible. After all, we're only here to work for people. If I answer that question, I would first respond about the release of austerity measures. I am aware that this is a process, but I think that it is some measures that are already in sight and are important and will bring something good to people as well. For example, regarding pensions. The reconciliation of pensions was this year and even higher in 2016 than the planned regular harmonisation. As you know, we have also coordinated extraordinary pensions and this year's annual allowance has been paid back to all pensioners, and will be paid in full next year. All pension restrictive measures will thus be lifted in the coming year. That, I think it's very important. With regard to the salaries of public servants, the unions have already agreed to abolish the payment anomalies of the worst paid public servants up to and including the 26th wage class. In addition, negotiations are under way to eliminate the anomalies for employees over this, i.e. the 26th Wage Class, and to phase out the remaining austerity measures such as promotions, regressions, collective supplementary pension premiums. About transfers to individuals and households. In 2018, the children's allowance will be reinstated by families belonging to the seventh and eighth income classes, which also means about 45 000 children. As of 2018, the remaining family benefits savings measures will also be released, with the right assistance when the child is born, a large family allowance, parental compensation. You mentioned the congregations. The gradual release of restrictions is also shown in the offer to municipalities that the average in 2018 would be EUR 551, which is 15 euro more than envisaged. Over the next two years, 6% of total eligible expenditure, 3% for reimbursements and 3% for grants, is provided for co-financing the investments of municipalities from the state budget. The biggest and best social measure, as you yourself have mentioned, is that people can work. We can continue to encourage this. We have a really good situation here right now, but we can't be happy with it. This must be encouraged by investments. Investments in transport infrastructure will be most important. It is about updating railways, roads, and above all there is an important investment in the second track and in the third development axis. Energy is also important. As you know, we have recently opened the Brežice hydroelectric power plant, which is the largest energy-friendly project in this mandate, and we continue our activities at the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. It is equally important that we continue to build a chain of hydroelectric power plants in Central Savi, so that we continue to do so. Then we will invest in telecommunications and smart networks, which will make an important contribution to GDP growth. In the processing of wood this year, we have invested more than 12 million euros in wood collection and processing centres, which will be accelerated within the next six months. The energy rehabilitation of administrative judicial buildings, educational establishments and other facilities brings multiple effects. The priorities adopted by the Government this year, when we have drawn up the budget, are also important, so we will invest more money in science, as regards matters that bring important multiplier and developmental effects. Finally, it is important that we also invest enough in security, because security is the assumption of everything. It would not be economic growth, it would not be a successful economy if we did not have a secure country, political stability and all the other activities that help our, thank God, a very successful economy, and we can thank him for that. At the same time, we will also invest in agriculture, energy sources, as I said, as well as health care, education, science, as I have already mentioned, as well as sports. Investments are increasing, and in the private sector too, we anticipate that they will grow and that this will lead to other incentives to one that we have outlined, i.e. more good for people, in that their living situations will also gradually improve. I will continue to do so as President of the Government until the end of the term of office, and I believe that we will all do so together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u41	Mr Matjaž Han, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u42	I believe, President, we will not convince this moment of people that we have not been agreed upon on this matter. We weren't. It is simple to point out some things that are nevertheless positive in this country. As I said, this is not only the credit of these governments, but also the previous governments have made some very important and difficult decisions, and it was not easy at the time that the economy today is in the same condition as it is. However, I would like to say something positive about what has happened in Slovenia in the last week. The fact that the union and the economy have sat down for one table and now the message of how to take the economy out. Thus, the new faces – Mrs Jerkič and Mr Gorjup have done something very positive, and we also welcome the Social Democrats. Now, President, it still doesn't count as far as European funding is concerned. We stayed there for 10% of what we could do. This new EMA system is not working. We know that, and that's bad. If we don't fix this, then with this financial perspective and conclusion, there will be nothing. That's one thing. The second thing I see is a very dangerous deal with the unions and pay-as-you-go imbalances. One day we will have to make it clear in this country that some services in the country are underpaid and some unfortunately too much. If we do not bite into this sour apple yet, then this Slovenia has nothing good to write about because of all the other good measures. Maybe your comment. However, with regard to European cohesion funds and drawbacks, I would ask for a better response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u43	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u44	It is true, honourable Member, that we have not agreed on the answer to these questions. The fact is, we are working in the government, I am trying to lead the government, that what was good in the past, in the past governments, in the whole system, in the economy, wherever we are building up, we need to strengthen this. But what was bad, and these bad practices have been quite something, including immorality and the like, and we need to phase out and change for the better. And this is what our government is doing, and this is my vision for the future. This is the only way Slovenia can go forward. As far as wage anomalies are concerned, I agree. They exist and are phased out, but it is not an easy process. It's a number of human destinys, comparisons between professions that are often very difficult. I can only ensure that we are working very hard here to put out what has been burning in recent years, so that we can at least establish a system that is as normal as the system's framework. But they are waiting for us, and I am sure, also in the coming mandate, how to make the whole system of wages, especially in the public sector, more fair, more functional and more encouraging, so that those who work better can be better rewarded. As far as European funds are concerned. This is where we speed up the pumping process. You know that at the conclusion of the previous perspective, we have shown ourselves extremely well, we have absorbed almost all the resources, and then we have fallen into the same situation as all countries when we stop pumping for a while and must now be greatly accelerated. We are working on this and I am also trying to encourage the competent ministers to work here to speed up this process as quickly as possible, so that we will also have some investment charge from this point of view. I am pleased, too, that the economy, the Chamber of Commerce and trade unions are working together in certain constructive matters to show some useful direction. Here too is the Government in dialogue with them and we believe that we will find solutions here too. So we go forward with dialogue, with listening, but also with a clear awareness that we must preserve the country as a good host who cares about public finances and makes progress gradually but confidently for the good of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u45	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask the Justice Minister a question. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u46	Yes, very nice. For a moment, even though I'm not in a personal crisis, I felt like I was seeing Santa Claus and not the Prime Minister. But take this as an input. But my question is, and I'm asking it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u47	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u48	The Minister of Justice is quite similar to what Mrs Novakova was talking about. [[…]] Look, I asked the minister a written question concerning this: What will the government or he, as justice minister, do to ensure some unification of judicial practice? I am therefore talking about the unification of the case law. Look, we've got [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u49	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u50	The cases that I spoke about at the meeting of the National Assembly on Thursday, which are actually in the sky, which are happening within the judiciary, should not, in fact, be. [[…]] Let me just say the case that the President of the Supreme Court referred to in the recent Reflections, I think Friday. He was asked why hearings over two years of age were used in the Kangler case and why not in the case of Yankovic when they were destroyed. The President of the Supreme Court spoke of a constitutional decision to take part in a constitutional decision. I have this constitutional decision before me, and don't talk about it. This is a constitutional decision of 24 March 2017. If there is any other constitutional decision, I hope the minister will mention it, but this one doesn't talk about it. The case I'm referring to is in the sky. On the one hand, evidence obtained in the same manner shall be destroyed on the basis of the same law and, on the other hand, evidence older than two years of age shall be used. An example which, for my understanding, is not admissible. Let's move on. It will be very difficult for people to understand, I will talk again about the same law and the same regulation and about two people. It will be difficult for people to understand, at least I do not understand how it is possible that someone for a thousand 500 euros unlawfully earmarked for the election campaign of the former President of the country of Turk gets a reminder, while someone else gets 5,000 euros in fines for 100 euros, also unlawfully imposed on the Mayor of Maribor, Fishtravec. Minister, I am talking about the same law, the same articles of the law and so different jurisprudence. We also have cases that people remind me of when, say, courts in labour disputes, identical labour disputes are decided entirely differently. What, then, about the unification of judicial practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u51	Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Dr. Gorenak, Member of Parliament, other Members and Members of Parliament! Unanimous case law in Slovenia is a problem. While you point out for such and other reasons always more or less politicized cases, in general: Unanimous case law in Slovenia is a problem, it is recognised by the judiciary, it is not discussed enough, it is not only an uneven case law, it is also an uneven case law. We're not, I'm not gonna be populist, we're serious about this problem. If you look at my statements two years ago, I've made this very clear and we've done a lot in the meantime. It is clear that the Government, not the National Assembly, but even less, of course, the Minister of Justice, does not have to change the case law. However, it can create conditions for judicial practice, different case law, to be identified and that the relevant authorities have leverage to provide them. Let's do it in a row. One of the problems of identifying different judicial practices and state prosecution practices, because it is also problematic because of different lawsuits, different penalties are required for different district prosecutions, sometimes only 10 kilometres apart. One of the key reasons for this, for one thing, is that the Attorney General's Office has never in its history established instruments and an analytical system-based approach to monitor the various prosecutor's decisions. With great difficulty two years ago, we adopted the relevant rules which also dictated to the State Prosecutor's Office, and I offered the previous Attorney General a deadline for the establishment of an analytical department in the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. This deadline has not been fully adopted but has been adopted with the current Attorney General. The Ministry of Justice has advocated, both with computer equipment and with the provision of adequate resources for staff, that, as we believe, the High Prosecutor’s Office will have its analytical service by the end of this year to identify such cases at all. It is somewhat different in the Supreme Court; such a service already exists there, has been somewhat neglected in the past and has been said to be one of its priorities in working discussions with the President of the Supreme Court and also in his programme, which was also presented to Members in his election. So, the first prerequisite that you can do anything for the uniformity of judicial practice or prosecution practice is that you have within your system to identify them at all, not only when a member is exposed to the media, because it is not usually about ordinary people, but it is either way politicised. Another way to ensure the strengthening of uniform case law is to be able to identify and work from the outside. I believe that by the end of the term of office we will have all the judicial decisions published on the websites; today they are not, we all know that. We have done a lot in this area; in the field of public prosecution, transparency of judicial proceedings, you are mainly grateful to the Committee for these changes in the Council of Justice 2014 and 2015, but this has changed the Ministry of Justice to change the order of justice. However, when the so-called judicial supervisor comes to life – I believe that by the end of this year – this will also be a step in the right direction. Now for a short while – it is called identifying and then having levers to unify judicial practice. The Supreme Court has this leverage, and other judicial practices cannot be changed. It is interesting that in the civil procedure we have been able to take quite a few measures in the National Assembly to root out the reform of the Justice Procedure Act, which will allow for a substantial greater unification of the case law: both the joint Senate and the economic and civil law, as well as a permissible review. It is also interesting that we are where people in some way mean most, this is in the criminal area – the CAP contains a series of provisions that would lead to better and more uniform judicial practice both on the side of the higher courts and in the Supreme Court. There, God forbid, but there we shuddered and listened to everything alive, let us change, according to our own words, civil procedures, not criminal procedures — where something might actually change. I'm sure there'll be another question. I'll be happy to go on. I wanted to say one thing: but one thing is also the fact that in the same law in different courts, sometimes different decisions are made, but it is also necessary to know that not every such different decision is really a different case, because the life cases that come can be very different.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u53	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Now you can actually see that if you don't take my questions personally, then even many times we can agree. Yes, you yourself indicated that there was something else you wanted to say. That's why I'm opening this part of the question, but look, we're probably not going to agree here on who's changed these things now, the Committee 2014 or you. Of course, you are physically or in the National Assembly. But if it weren't for that committee, no one would have heard it. That's true. But watch out! When you spoke about the unification of the case law and the responsibility of the Supreme Court. Yes, of course, there can be no other way! You can't do this. The Supreme Court has to do this. But on Thursday or Wednesday, when we had the Justice Committee – you were absent – let us use this when you discuss this with the President of the Supreme Court again. See, the President of the Supreme Court stood up, in fact, his co-worker — yes, with the beard of the man sitting on his left — took the view that the differences in the decisions of the courts were in fact due to the judicial freedom or independence of the judges. We can certainly agree that with the independence of the judges, we cannot cover some of the cases that are in the sky that I have been talking about. Like the case, Vaskrsić happened, what happened in the European Court of Justice, Slovenia will pay 80,000 euros, and the Supreme Court – use this in a discussion with the President – has done nothing, nothing in this area. Absolutely nothing! Even more, 14 days ago there was a similar sale of an apartment for 350 euros in New Town, and the President of the Court – that is to say, the office of course sells the apartment – said the President of the Court: “We did not receive any instructions from the Supreme Court.” In short, they do not need to be instructed because they could respect the judgment. Proceed to where you're finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u55	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you very much. As it is said, I think that much has already been done in this mandate to establish a system of identification of various judicial practices and to strengthen the means to identify both in the prosecution and in the courts. But it takes a while. And of course, you know – here I hope that we will also agree – the Slovenian courts throughout Slovenia issue around a thousand different decisions and decisions, around a thousand different decisions and decisions, and I believe that many people will ever be wronged because of unanimity of court practice. But most of the time it happens to a man who doesn't actually have leverage; if it happens to someone who knows you or any other policy, he can put it right in the papers, ask a question, then he's there. Thus it is necessary to establish a system, we are essentially going to say that up to 90% of it has been done and I believe that it will start to produce results soon. What is very important, however, is that we now have at the top of both the judiciary and the top of the State Prosecutor's Office people who are aware of this and are no longer afraid to tell them that it is a problem and that they are going to do so. But I have to say, it's not true that the Supreme Court did nothing at Vaskris. As soon as Vaskrsić happened, it was also found that it was because it was an extremely bad organisation of work with the files and then there were two different proposals, and the executive judge did not know it at all, and perhaps we should and so on, and they corrected it. However, I believe that – I hope that this week, if not another week – the government will also consider a proposal to amend the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which will prevent Vaskrsić from happening again. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u57	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you. Not so much for any dissatisfaction with the Minister's response, but more because I think there's been a pretty positive communication right now. I did not say that the Supreme Court did nothing in that sense, but you know, if the same cases are repeated – i.e., the same cases are repeated; in the New Town you had 3 weeks ago for 350 euros in housing sales – it means that someone on the Supreme Court did not say anything down. I don't know what I'm supposed to say. You know, there is one thing. Previously, you spoke about the fact that politics could not have much effect on the decisions of the courts. Of course, he can't, even the Minister can't have much influence and so on in court decisions, of course he can't and can't, I agree with everything. However, you need to know that politics places the Attorney General and the President of the Supreme Court in one way or another, and those two which were set up in 2010 and 2011 because you yourself said that, after all, the Prosecutor did not want to hear anything about the uniform prosecution practice, and I can agree with you that such uniform prosecution practice is absolutely necessary. The President of the Supreme Court, the former, is also more so – because we know what and how – but when we warned in the National Assembly in 2011, I was sitting here somewhere two seats forward, down there, but the political loyalty of the President of the Supreme Court was more important than anything else that I justified at the time. I propose that we discuss these measures in order to discuss these measures in the National Council for the Unification of Judicial Practice, including the Prosecutor's Office, which is the very principle itself, because this is simply necessary because people simply need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u59	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the votes. Miha Kordiš, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark and Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, chairman! We have already discussed this in the National Assembly, and in recent times we have been particularly intensive in monitoring this in the media on the situation at home for the elderly. The first problem these institutions have is overcrowded, overcrowded, undernourished personnel. We have regulations, four decades old, while working conditions have changed so much that nursing homes have become effective hospitals for the elderly. But these changes were not followed by the fact that wages for heavy, very proletarian labor are bad. Thus, the nurse receives 900 euros net, a nurse with poor 600 euros net and so on. The other problem we have is infrastructure. For 18 years, this country has not built new homes, but only awarded concessions. At the moment we have 100 homes for the elderly, of which 59 are public, 41 are private; well, this year we received an invitation to tender for concessions. And here are the terrible situations, paying for care is often not to say in gold, strongly above the pensions of most pensioners, in private, where it is up to thousands of euros net, perhaps even more, and at the same time, homes for the elderly record surpluses. For 2014, as far as I have data, these surpluses were EUR 5.5 million and then they finance investments that the state should otherwise cover. The solutions offered to this problem are in fact quite obvious: long-term solidarity-based care needs to be introduced for the service pricer, as far as concessionaires are concerned, to clearly cancel concessions, to extend the public network and to set the budget for investments in this sector to EUR 20,25 million per year. I therefore ask the competent minister: Will you provide public funds to rebuild and build new public homes and when will you do so? Next: Where are we with the Long-Terms Act? As far as personnel and related regulations are concerned, I would like to know: When can we expect a correction of standards and staffing in nursing homes — nurses, caregivers, and other support staff? I already mentioned the concessions – they're obviously doing damage. For very high costs, we often witness poor care, and the private profit absurdly on the caregivers and so on. In the light of that, I'm curious: Why did we have a call for new concessions this year instead of considering expanding the public network?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u61	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor, first, to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you, Member, for asking. Homes for the elderly are, in fact, one of the more problematic points mainly with regard to population ageing. We built in the 1970s and 1980s, we can say, an enviable network of public welfare institutions. When we encountered restrictions or the ability of the country or the desire to invest in public homes, it appeared at the beginning of this millennium that we were complementing the network with concessionaires. The largest number of concessions was awarded between 2004 and 2008, after which more or less of the concessions were suspended. During this period it has been tried by means – unfortunately, if you look at how much the Ministry of Labour has had for investment from 2000 to today – we are now at EUR 4 million for investment – then you can imagine what we can do with 4 million 800. We try to invest – what is necessary – and the fact is that homes for older people do not care about concessions – in general – I do not agree that concessionaires are given as if they were some private servants and that they are doing bad things, that everything is wrong with concessionaires. Please, however, they are part of a public service or public network, performing a public service in accordance with the standards and standards they need to be equally non-profitable; therefore, the profits you say they create go back to business. In fact, in public welfare institutions, for example, what is income, expenditure on income is created mainly by other activities, such as home aid and other services provided to the market. On the basis of this money, public homes are also more co-financed by the renovation of existing homes and investments in new ones. The last public social security company, which was fully funded by the State, is Fužine, I think it has been 2004, since then we have actually not the biggest investment we have now, I think I have a million euros reserved for the new construction of the home of Regent in Ljubljana in 2018. [[…]] And in 2019. In short, there's no funds. I agree that we should have a broader agreement here on what we're going to do with our homes. As far as standards and standards are concerned, I agree, but the fact is that without some major reform in the system, it is not only possible to raise. [[…]] If we look at the last raise: by the 26th pay grade, the alignment of the anomalies, the removal of the anomalies, this resulted in between 5% and 7% higher value, because the homes for the elderly are not covered and because health care does not cover this, the social work paid by people and families – mainly because, as you have found out, the pensions are on average lower, and for those who cannot, they are covered: first, the family, then the congregation – and if it comes to raising the costs of the employees, it is also in price. We held social care, we allowed a maximum raise of 3 percentage points, we were allowed there, and in health care the situation is what it is. In fact, there are also many initiatives, both by the directors, that the situation is unsustainable. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly pointed out that they are flowing through social services to pay for health services in homes, so this situation is not acceptable. Long-term care is essential, but I would like to set up a system that will create opportunities for new jobs, especially social entrepreneurship, and give employment opportunities. If we're getting old, let's make this an opportunity. Above all, that the quality of services in nursing homes will remain such that this social part of care will also be important, that the treatment in the community will be highlighted and that we will not make homes for older people in the absence of investment simply in what they have come out of – that is to say, the salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u63	In the rest of the time, the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Member! I hope that I will be able to complete this answer further, because time is running out. The question was related to the proposal for a long-term care law. We have this law prepared, supposed to go to a public debate or the end of this week or at the beginning of next week. This bill provides special support for home care and introduces new services [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] to maintain independence and strengthen existing institutional protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u65	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. I mean, basically, I think we can give the ministers a word that they take their thoughts to the end. Mrs Kopač Mrak basically agrees with me on the consideration of public health homes that they do not have enough investment resources available at the IMF, which is indeed true. It is also true that after concessions it intervenes as quick fix solutions, which does not mean that if we patch the public network in this way and if these activities are in principle non-profit, then they are actually. Under the line on paper, it still lasts, but let's look at DEOS, 7 homes, expansion, rapid expansion into new areas financed from overpayments by suppliers, and the owners or founders of DEOS are sponsored by these revenues. They may be unprofitable on paper, but in fact they are a loss of funds that serve private interests and the industry is highly profitable. Which, then, would be of further interest to me here if you agree that we need to strengthen our investment activity: When could we expect at least the debate on this topic to begin and the public-public network at home for the elderly to expand? As far as the Long-Terms Act is concerned, I'm still interested: How will this affect the expected revenue in order to cover the services to a greater extent? This is followed by human resources reinforcements for nurses, caregivers, other staff. These people are burned, their nerves destroyed, their spines destroyed, and the only reason that homes still function as long as they function is the sacrifice of these people. Because in working hours for everything they have to do, they really can't do it for as much as they've been paid, and they're doing it for an hour more a day, just to get those caterers to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u67	Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thanks again. True, saving has also left its consequences in paying for services or, if you want, in rewarding health care that takes place and is carried out in the homes of older citizens. This is why the long-term supply bill also resolves the issue by re-evaluation of individual tasks or services, as this proposal puts the user at the centre of the law and gives him an active role. In the future, an individual will have the option of choosing between a cash receipt or a personal assistant in that highest category of eligibility for informal care or for formal care, either at home or in an institution or in the homes of older citizens. Users will also be entitled to rehabilitation for maintaining independence, psychosocial support, counselling and ICT services. Advice and training will also be provided to informal providers. The draft law introduces a uniform assessment tool and a uniform procedure for obtaining justice and establishes comparable services both in the formal care at home and in institutional protection, in particular in order to achieve a uniformity of rights for all citizens in need of such long-term care. An integrated network of operators is proposed for all supply at the state level and, of course, monitoring will also need to be strengthened in order to ensure quality and security of supply. The bill proposes the introduction of long-term insurance with compulsory payment for all insurers, depending on their income. Of course, this will be an opportunity for new jobs, especially through the creation of social entrepreneurship as well as other forms – we think of volunteers in particular. As I have already said, this is also possible to introduce a specific pilot project that will take place for two years, 2018 – 2019, where the way of implementing this new system regime will be checked in practice. That is why, together with the Ministry, we have prepared these starting points where we will check the arrangements for this system in the rural, urban and some intermediate region.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u69	Miha Kordiš, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is very clear from the dynamics of the answer that, in fact, we have not even covered the subject well, so that the Minister can answer it, so I think this is a testimony to the need for the National Assembly to hold a public debate on the subject at the home of older citizens. The starting point I am offering for this public debate is as follows. First, long-term care and new resources from which services are financed; parallel raising of standards, standards that would enable the staffing of nurses, nurses in these homes and so on. Thirdly, the State commitment to earmark between €20 million and €25 million for investment at the home of older citizens each year. And for the fourth time, the withdrawal of concessions to private people, or even the transition to a full public service, is indeed a public supply network through the homes of older citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u71	Miha Kordiš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, you have the floor to ask the Minister without a department responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenki Smercol.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Slovenia is a responsible member of the international community and is committed to respect for international law and in particular the international development commitments it has made. I mean, on September 2015, when the Heads of State adopted the objectives of sustainable development and Slovenia was one of those that confirmed these commitments. A few months ago, exactly June of this year, she also prepared an overview of the achievement of these sustainable development goals, and as a member of the Slovenian delegation, I was greatly commended because we meet these objectives very quickly. In fact, we are ranked high, ninth among 157 countries in terms of sustainable development objectives. In addition to meeting the commitments of the sustainable development objectives, it is also important that the action that is taking place here at home. This means in particular the preparation of a strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Just last week, the government took note of the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia by 2030, and I ask you, Madam Minister, if you could tell us more about this strategy. First: When will it be accepted? Second: What are the main substantive points of this strategy? Above all: Do you feel that any discussion in the National Assembly would be necessary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u73	Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, distinguished other Members! True, the objectives of sustainable development are the international commitment of Slovenia and this year at the headquarters of the United Nations has indeed prepared a report. We have also presented this report, and we wish a lot of praise. What matters, at least as far as I'm concerned, is that we went together at the United Nations headquarters, not only as a minister and as a part of the state government, but also as a member of the National Assembly, a representative of young people and also a representative of civil society, and we performed together. And the fact is that Slovenia has been successful there, and I hope that we will also be able to keep a high place in the future, because the high city, 9 among 157 Member States, will not be easy to keep. It is also true that Slovenia, when we were preparing the development strategy of Slovenia this year, including the 2030 Agenda, made our international commitment as one of the key development goals that we need to achieve by 2030. And really Slovenia – just last week, the government took note of the first draft. What does that mean? This means that, practically on the same day, this draft strategy went into the framework of public consultation, so that it is now possible to participate in this consultation on the government side, government.si. This consultation will take place by 9. 11.; this means a few more than a month. We would like not only to receive written comments, but also to agree that we will actively approach those participants who are really important to us in Slovenia. It is said, even to essentially political parties, not just coalition parties, including trade unions, chambers of commerce; in short, civil society, in short, all those who need to say something about development and have their very important word. In fact, the design of sustainable policies is indeed a requirement, and then also such measures, which are all-inclusive; but what is crucial is that none of the three key pillars of sustainable development are left to the front and leave two or one behind. You told me to say just a few more words. What is the ambition of this document? This is the country's umbrella development framework, which means that it does not have the ambition to summarize all 142 strategies that Slovenia has already put in place in the context of its activities, but, above all, to establish a comprehensive development framework for the future. The aim is to achieve these goals and to maintain this direction, whatever option will come to the governments of the Republic of Slovenia by 2030. Because there is a lot of room for manoeuvre, which must be perfectly legitimate for each government to take its actions and to take its action plans for its mandate. What is the key objective of the Slovenian Development Strategy? Above all, achieve a quality life for all, how with balanced economic, balanced social and environmental development – says all three objectives of sustainable development – and two additional strategic orientations are real learning for and throughout life. This is what will lead us all forward together; the useful knowledge is the one we urgently need to reach, and the last, intertwined pillar, which is a high degree of cooperation and an effective public administration. And that's something you're gonna have to work on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u75	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you very much. It's a government document. The National Assembly won't deal with it. But if I understand you correctly, Madam Secretary, you have consulted with the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. I'm also interested in: Do you think this is an ambitious document? Slovenia is a very ambitious country, working with a wide range of international organisations, especially in the process of preparing the 2050 vision, has worked very closely with the OECD and so on. It is also a document that will in some way replace those 180, – plus, minus – strategies that have been prepared on the basis of different documents and research, and I am interested in: Is there any connection between these 180 documents? Is this a collection of these documents, or have you devoted yourself to these documents, or is it the result of a wide variety of discussions between the different stakeholders mentioned already? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u77	Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much for this opportunity. First the consultation. We will offer all the parties in Parliament, some of us, just to present the document and talk about it. We are already doing this with some, and with others we will do this in the context of public consultation. So I hope that within a month we can actually communicate with everyone, because I believe that there is more to be said about this document, because it concerns all of us, not just the coalition and this government. I'm talking about a document that's just ahead of us, and it's long-term, and by 2030, there's gonna be a few more governments here. That's the first part. That's why we want to go as wide as possible, and I believe we have to do this if we want to get a document and some credibility. The second thing you have highlighted is, in fact, what is the relationship between the sectoral strategies and this umbrella strategy. No sectoral strategy is mentioned in the umbrella strategy. None. This means that it gives only direction and then every sectoral strategy follows this direction. We have some of those that have been adopted now or within this government, and given that we have already prepared this document, we have also consulted and are essentially going in the same direction. Here I can talk about the strategy of a long-lived society where we have really worked extremely closely together. In fact, demographics is one of the key challenges of Slovenia and this is one of those, I will say, good practices where we have been together all the time. The second was just adopted, the strategy of tourism in Slovenia. The third is essentially a health strategy. All of these are those sectoral strategies and those that are now new, either happening at this point, or in this year, two and in fact more long-term, are somehow linked. But all the others who are going west – let's say there are quite a few next year and in 2020, when they are again preparing – will, of course, have to convene against this common goal. That's possible for a while, but for what else it would take a minute or two.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u79	Please, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšič, who is excusedly absent. That's why I'm asking you if you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today, the absent Minister, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, would like to be asked orally to answer me at the next meeting of the National Assembly, namely, to ask the Minister about the delay in electronic tolling on Slovenian motorways. The deadline for the establishment of electronic tolling on Slovenian motorways has been set and also contractually set by 1. 1st year 2018. This is said to be a system of electronic tolling in a few months from now, according to information, this deadline is being set, moved, that is to say, operators are late in work and new requirements for additional works are being put in place. Let me introduce that this is not a small project, but that this is a large-scale project and also of great value, basically in this physical work, the project is worth €47 million, in the long run, including maintenance, and €90 million. In short, it is a major project and it is also appropriate to take a responsible approach to such a major project. The question to me right now is: What about managing the risks of running this project? For we know that delays in the execution or completion of works place large losses of financial revenue on Dars' side, because these losses are not so small and are counted monthly in just millions. The monthly loss in non-roading or in the current work as it is today - that is, the loss of a million 600 000 euros is a monthly loss of revenue. This is said to be a three-month deadline, which will lose as much as €4.8 million in revenue over the three months, and then there will be a request for additional work. I believe that many applications have been made in construction, but there were no unknown grounds, there were no errors; in short things are very open and also this request for additional works is very much. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u81	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, the answer to your question is expected to be given orally at the next meeting. Mr. Jožef Horvat, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr. Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek! I was very grateful and pleased that you supported this spring, the whole government, my proposal for the amendment of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. It was a matter of extending the law until the end of 2019 because no money was provided in the annual budgets. At that time, or at that time, in an opinion on the proposal of my law signed by all Members of the New Slovenia, you wrote that we will need € 1.6 million in the 2018 budget and €890 000 824 in 2019. So together for both years, which is the subject of an extension of this law, a total of 3 million 490 thousand 824. Of course, as soon as we got the Members to the table of budget documents, I checked and looked at the plan of development programmes and was appalled, this moment still – I hope that the Minister will comfort me – found that the money is too small for 2018 to be only a million 565 thousand, and for 2019 to be a million 135 thousand, that is, a total of 2 million 700 thousand. When I play with numbers and look at government documents again, I see that by the end of 2016 it was realized from instrument 1, this is the promotion of the competitiveness of the gloomy economy, it has been realized, paid 23 million 127 thousand 292 since the law defined 33 million. It was an invitation to tender for two years, 2016 and 2017 and under this invitation to tender a total of 5 million 64 thousand 350. According to these calculations, there are now 2 million 108 000 358 missing by the end of 2019. I am speaking to the euro precisely, because when it comes to money, we need to be very precise. Mr. Secretary, please explain to me: How are we now going to implement this Development Support Act to the Pomur region by 2019 and, above all, instrument one; hence, to promote competitiveness? This is the most important thing for me. I don't care about soft projects. I care about new jobs. I will insist on this and I demand that we realize this part, if not, we go back to asking for the extension of the law, which is already a little funny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u83	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u84	Mr President, honourable Member, thank you for the question! In the case of changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and in the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, the funds for the implementation of the Development Support Act of the Pomurska region were foreseen in the budget item entitled Development of Pomurje. Grants amounting to EUR 3 million are foreseen, namely EUR 715 000 for the financial year 2018 and EUR 285 000 for the financial year 2019. In addition, grants are planned for 2018 and 2019 for the Pomurje area under the public tender for the Launching of Enterprises in High Unemployment Problem Areas in 2018 and 2019. In view of past experience and the condition of quality applications from Pomurje, we expect that companies from Pomurje municipalities could benefit from a total of up to EUR 400,000 in 2018 and up to EUR 400,000 in 2019. The funds will be fully provided once the 2018 budget changes and the 2019 budget are confirmed by the National Assembly. The plans for the development programmes are not yet visible. In the information system of the Ministry of Finance, so-called MFERAC, they will only be visible when the budget is approved in the National Assembly and deposited in MFERAC. Let me also say that activities for the implementation of the Pomeranian Law in 2017 are being implemented on an ongoing basis and, according to the planned funding in 2018 and 2019, by the end of 2019, when the last year of the implementation of the Development Support Act to the Pomeranian Region, the target set out in the law will be EUR 33 million for the implementation of the instruments under the Pomeranian Region Competitiveness Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u85	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Mr. Secretary, you are in my eyes a trustworthy minister. What you just told me, I believe you. I will also carry this magnetogram in my pocket, and I really expect the Pomeranian Region Development Support Act to be implemented by the end of 2019. Above all, as I have said, I am interested in the most important instrument here and above all in promoting competitiveness, because the law clearly states that the state must provide EUR 33 million. Of course, I am confused by the fact that I am reading a government document dated 23 March 2017 relating to my marriage, where the government wrote – I repeat what I said earlier – that the budget for 2018 must provide a million 600 000 euros. There is not, however, 35,000 missing – you will say that I am too much of a pizzeria, I apologize for the expression – and then with the state budget for 2019, there must be a million 890 thousand 824, but only a million 135 thousand euros. Indeed, I am looking at the development agenda plan, and I am surprised at what you say is that we have an MFERAC application at the Ministry of Finance, where we Members will also confirm the development agenda plan, but we will not see the numbers. I'm afraid to confirm a document where I don't see numbers. I ask that you may encourage the Minister of Finance, who is the custodian of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, to write to us Members, however, a comment on the items for which I am fighting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u87	Minister Rest, please, you have the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you. Once again, after what we have planned, it is estimated 3 million for these two years and – slightly the opposite, as you said – a million 715 thousand years 2018 and a million 285 – 2019. Second. The current implementation of payments under this Act has been as follows: 3.8 million by 2010, 3.6 – 2011, 4.4 – 2012, 2.9 – 2013, 4.2 – 2014, 3.8 – 2015, 2.6 – 2016. And planned in 2017 – 4.1, planned in 2018 – 2.1: 1.7 million from integrated sources and 0.4 from the EU, planned in 2019 – 1.7; 1.3 from integrated sources and 0.4 from EU resources. A total of 33.2 million non-refundable resources. In addition to non-refundable resources, a total of EUR 668 000 was allocated to microcredits and larger corporate investment credits by the end of 2016. In 2018 and 2019, the programme is envisaged to be implemented in all the instruments of the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomur Region. That is, instrument 1, to encourage – what you say – the start of investments and the creation of new jobs, 2.2 million in both years, of which 1.4 in both years for the call to promote investment and up to 0.8 million in both years for the promotion of start-up. Now I repeat in a second form what I said before. Instrument 2, promoting human resource development of €100,000 in both years, instrument 3, promoting social entrepreneurship of €200,000 in both years, and instrument 4, promoting a region that would attract domestic and foreign investment, €740 000 in both years, and instrument 5, supporting the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region – €300,000 in both years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u89	Mr. Joseph Horvath, would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for these additional numbers. I hope, too, that this will be achieved by the end of 2019, but I am taking advantage of this business opportunity to propose to the National Assembly a broader debate on this issue, but the difficulty would be to present the individual budget lines in particular. Mr Minister said the matter will be realized at the Pomurje Development item. In particular, this item is not in the development programme plan; it is not, at least not yet. The Minister says this will be evident when the budget is adopted. What we see today, however, is the Law of Pomure. I think it makes sense. Of course, of course, every Member goes to see the Pomour Act and there you see there's not enough money. On that basis, then, my question. Here we need to clear up the budget lines, not just for the development of Pomurje – in general, so that we can also make relevant decisions. We already had one committee this morning, the Committee on Foreign Policy, where we did not see everything from the items. I'm not going to go wide now, because it's not the content right now, but from the items we see in the development agenda plan or in the general budget documents, we don't know what's behind each item, and that's not right. This is a country budget of around 10 billion, and we need to know exactly where the money is going. That is why I think, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, that my request is justified and, please, I expect my colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups to support me. And I thank the Minister very much for his answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u91	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We continue with Mr Primož Hainz's question, which will be addressed to the Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague! Apparently, it's the fall of a time when we're still working on health, if I may say so. I would only remind you that now the period of influenza vaccination has begun, that the month of October is the month of awareness of breast cancer celebrating a 20-year-old, and of course today is October 16th, the day of organ donation. It happens to be a coincidence. I asked this question, or I will ask the minister, earlier, but it is the same as today. Inspect: In what way will the Minister of Health encourage citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to choose more to donate organs and tissues after their death? The organ and tissue transplantation agency Slovenija Transplant launched a campaign on the initiative of the marketing communication agency this year. In just a few weeks, the number of people identified as organ donation after death increased by almost five times compared to the same time period last year, yet fewer than six thousand people were enrolled in the organ donation register with us. While we have so-called informed consent in the law, in many countries of the European Union there is a provision for agreement when authorities can be taken away from any individual who has not entered into the register of non-donors who does not wish to donate. In short, in Europe, the regime is such that anyone who doesn't say he doesn't give organs is already a donor. So the question is: What does the Ministry of Health see as a major obstacle that so few people choose to donate organs? Is it possible that the definition process for donors is too complex and too low-accessible? Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u93	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u94	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Member Primož Hainz, thank you very much for this issue on the day of the organ donation. The answer can be very long or very short. It is true, as you correctly note, that in Slovenia we have a legal so-called informed consent, but in many, not all, of course, the so-called so-called so-called consent of the European Union, which means, by its content, that any deceased individual who has not explicitly defined for a time of life by entering this register that the authorities do not wish to donate may use his organs for transplantation without the consent of the nearest owners. Recently, France has also defined this way by law in its legislation, as all media have welcomed positively. However, it is important to say why we may not yet have a legally so-called consensus. In Slovenia, a wide public debate took place in 2010 because it was then that the Ministry of Health and Slovenia Transplant gave an initiative to amend the Law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment in this work in order to introduce a so-called consensus instead of informed consent into the law. Regrettably, however, this proposal for an initiative to be taken away from any deceased individual who has not already entered this register of non-donors during his lifetime has not been given public support at that time, nor has there been any changes to the law in this respect this year. As you know, in order to comply with the European Directive on Quality and Security in Legislation adopted in the 2015 National Assembly, we have foreseen a novelty that will enter into force at the beginning of 2018; it is said very quickly, namely, this novelty is that this law introduces a register for those who oppose the donation and also legalizes the possibility of an electronic definition for the donation, which, as I said, will be realized in practice at the beginning of 2018. However, I believe that from then on, it has been true since 2010, but also since 2015, when we once again wanted to implement this envisaged agreement, which would greatly facilitate the work of Slovenia's Transplant – unfortunately, in public, we have not received support and have in fact taken not a whole step against it, but a half in order to introduce a register of only those who oppose donations and also electronic definitions. However, you need to know that when this situation occurs, it is practically only 24 hours before all contact procedures are carried out with those who need to give this consent and consent. I can say that if there is an initiative to take a human or more modern approach to organ donation in Slovenia, of course we, as a bearer ministry together with Slovenia, will come into this change of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u95	Mr. Primoz Hainz, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. I have to say, I'm rather pleasantly surprised, I didn't know that, but I have to say the following. Slovenians are very good blood donors, and somehow it was not clear or logical that organ donation was somehow not working. Even in the National Assembly — I have to say — I have been warned about this by the services here — there are a lot of blood providers, and when they had one consult, they told me this story, and on that basis I ask. What you said was that there was no public support. Does this mean that there has been no support from Members or what does this mean? In fact, because I say, here I am somehow not going together that the blood supply is "yes" and the organ donation is "no". I know it's an important speed that is important to relatives who, in such a case where it's not mandatory, of course they can't agree because they have other concerns because it's a day of mourning and so on, but still: What does that mean — a register? It's very complicated to get to that now. You have to go to the Red Cross and sign in there. I didn't quite get it. In fact, the option would be that anyone who comes to his personal doctor there simply sign papers to donate an organ and there would be no I mean, it is also not much work for a personal doctor to not have the feeling that it must, because it is just those two minutes, three minutes of conversation yet. [[…]] But well, if you went to this computer version; what exactly does this mean – the register, I don't imagine, because then this is the intended consensus. Thank you very much for further clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u97	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you, too, for that question. At that time, it was mainly debated about possible abuses, as in such a way of establishing the envisaged consensus, of course, it was necessary to ensure that all the mechanisms, which were particularly protective to prevent errors or manipulations, and ethical principles and many of those objections were at the time. Perhaps now in society in general has somehow matured the situation that there would not be so many objections here. It's true that I wasn't in this department at the time, but I think there have been quite broad debates here, I don't know whether even in Parliament or in the State Council on this subject, because then it didn't go into law change. Even with these changes, which we have already prepared for our term of office, I must say that there have also been very strong objections from individual parties. This was also the reason why we have not actually fully accepted this mechanism of the envisaged agreement. However, progress has been made so that we will have a register of non-donors, those who will explicitly express themselves that they do not want to donate, and this electronic definition of donation. So I think that maybe we should wait to see how this new mechanism works, but maybe – I don't know – we'll see what the response is after three, six months – we'll find out and then we'll go completely to this new concept and approach. It is a shame, however, that I must say that we are the number of transplants of the heart to the number of people first in the world and also after survival, just as and after many others, we are highly quoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u99	Mag. Branko Grimes will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. The functioning of the rule of law is extremely important for trust in institutions. Before the law they should all be equal, and this is ultimately one of the fundamental principles on which the Slovenian Constitution is based and is also explicitly written as a member of the Slovenian Constitution. For this reason, it is of course important not only to judge within a reasonable time, not only a fair trial, but also a procedure which must be equal for all, transparent and, of course, in compliance with the legal rules, which also means legal time limits. In a normal, functioning, state-of-the-art state, rightly speaking, in line with European standards of functioning justice, it simply could not have happened, what has happened recently in Slovenia, that an indictment has been filed late; it is too late because it restricts the law, and this is also highlighted by one decision of the Constitutional Court, the length of time when data obtained by specific methods and means can be used for the purpose of the indictment, according to the domestic word eavesdropping. A specific case that has upset the Slovenian public, you all know for sure. The Ljubljana mayor was virtually now dropped the indictment because it was filed too late. First, the court excluded all the hearings or evidence obtained by specific methods and means, since it had already expired, according to the Court’s findings, the legal time limit to which they should be used was later, due to a complaint by one of the hearings, another part of the evidence fell. What people now understand as the point of this story is that we have people in the first and second order in Slovenia. If you're a man of another order, they charge the house for 124 euros and sell it on auction, and then the taxpayers pay it later, if he insists on obtaining justice somewhere in the European Court of Justice, but if you are a citizen of the first order, they will at the same time forgive some 16 million people and, the worst of all, in a completely obvious, sky-crowding criminal case – because things have come to the public on account of journalists – then it happens that because someone has done too late what he would be obliged to do, the evidence is thrown out, even destroyed the evidence of this particular case, and someone should take responsibility for it. Mr. Minister: Will you or will you take responsibility? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u101	The word is from the Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I have noted with amazement in your question that you are coming from a precisely different assumption than in a somewhat similar question your fellow Member, Dr. Gorenak, because you have referred to a constitutional decision which he claims does not contain this in this constitutional decision and has merely disputed the decision of the court in the case of Zoran Jankovic. However, I can agree, as I have already answered today the question of your fellow Member, Dr. Gorenak, that the uniformity of judicial practice, in particular the unity and speed of the prosecution in Slovenia, is absolutely not optimal. I also said that we have taken a series of measures to improve the situation. But they're not getting any better with tomorrow. Neither the Government nor the National Assembly nor the Government nor the National Assembly can order prosecutors or judges to decide quickly. In a particular case, there has been a change of case law. My position or the position of the Ministry of Justice here is very similar to that of the prosecution. We believe that this case law will cause great problems for itself, but it is so – the court has the right to decide and decide. And from that moment forward, I can no longer argue with this decision. What we did on the same day as it became known and publicly that such a decision had been made, we immediately asked the Ministry of Justice, both the prosecutors and the prosecution, as well as the Supreme Court, to look at all the ongoing files, where a similar problem might have arisen. If I am not mistaken, it is you who have also called the KNOVS meeting on this topic for the second Tuesday or Wednesday, and I think we will be able to have a constructive debate on the basis of such data, which, as we have said, we have already requested from last week. I also agree with you that sometimes people can feel that justice is of different speeds and has different vats in different individuals, so transparency is important. And once again, although you will say that I am selling something to you, this transparency brings solutions to the new Criminal Procedure Act, which you have attacked and torn to pieces without serious arguments. Why? Because today, in one criminal procedure in which such or other decisions may be made, there are sometimes nine or ten judges involved before the case even reaches the Supreme Court. First, it shall be decided by one investigating judge, then, if a complaint arises, the Chamber of the three Judges shall decide in the extra-deputy Chamber. If an investigation is then initiated, the defence may appeal to a higher court where the three judges decide again. So, even before the court's investigation, the trial, not the main proceedings, has been initiated at all, we already have seven different judges deciding on a certain complaint and a certain legal standard. This is also one of the reasons why different decisions are made, that the procedure is extremely imprudent, not to mention that it is extremely slow. We are the only country in Europe that has such a complicated process before such decisions occur. This is also what we want to change with the CAP. We are still waiting for the final report in this case on the prosecution's conduct, and then we will decide. Of course, I cannot take responsibility for the individual actions of the individual prosecutor, because I have not led the proceedings against Zoran Jankovic nor am I directly subordinated to the prosecution. However, we will require, of course, this new fact that there has been such a decision by the court, to see how big this problem is and what to do not to repeat itself, and whether it has also occurred in the sense of the State Prosecutor's Office in the sense of any shortcomings, shortcomings, negligence or contrived errors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u103	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u104	The Commission, which I am leading, is called upon to look at the issue more broadly. Of course, also because of this particular case, which is in the sky, which should never have happened. And yes, of course, let us see what will happen if something like this never happens again. But, as it is said, this particular case has happened and in your address you have said everything, you have just avoided the core of my question, which is a question of responsibility. Look, in a normal state of law, if such a legal stunt had happened, because that's the only real term for what happened, of course, the Justice Minister would have stepped down immediately, that's for sure. Under the law, the Minister is responsible subjectively and objectively for the situation in the field covered by it, and this story by revoking the evidence is, of course, proof that, in the broadest sense of the word, something does not work as systematically as it should. It is not only the story of one woman somewhere or an individual, but it has a much broader dimension and also the message they receive if you want, the electorateI or the younger generation, is particularly destructive. Some are allowed simply everything before the law, apparently nothing to some. We are obviously not all alike before the law, we are citizens of the first, second order, which is totally unacceptable. And if that stunt had happened, someone would have to answer. To this point, as far as I am aware, no one has taken responsibility, so I am once again asking the question. In a normal legally functioning country, in the event of a legal hoax such as the annulment or even destruction of evidence against Zoran Jankovic in the case of suspicion of sexual harassment, it would be a case that was fully presented and clear. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u105	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u106	If you're saying there's been such a legal stunt in the case of Zoran Jankovic, I don't know why you're not saying that there's been such a legal stunt in the case of Mr Kangler. We can't have double vats. And Mr Grimes, if there was a change in the interpretation of law because the law was written as it was, and it wasn't written by me, it happened, it was written in the time of your government. These investigations have been going on extremely long, and I'm probably the last person to tell him that I'm involved in Jankovic's rescue. So much honesty and self-reflection I hope you can overcome. I told you what we're gonna do to make sure something like this doesn't happen again. He told you that sanctions will be possible – with sanctions not being imposed by the Minister of Justice, I believe that you are aware of this – depends on the extent of this problem. At this point, we don't know how many things are going to go down. And once again, to make all the authorities work more, better and faster, especially more transparent, the answer is to change procedural legislation, or you will be discussing the same things in two, three, four or five years' time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u107	Mag. Branko Grimes, do you have a wish for procedural assumptions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u108	In particular, in the case of Mr Kangler, there was a constitutional judgment at that time, which highlighted things from a constitutional point of view. Some relevant facts have been recorded by the Constitutional Court even later in certain decisions, so that the matter was now perfectly clear here. This is also about not only the functioning of one part of the system, but the system as a whole. In view of all that you have said, it is obvious that you are not ready to talk or think about any responsibility so far, so my procedural proposal will be that you personally and, of course, all others attend the meetings on interpretation and that we will discuss this very seriously there, because the question of responsibility is something that is certainly the worst problem of this society when it comes to the functioning of the system as a whole. What additional discussions on this subject you probably do not want at this time, because we will have a professional part, we will do it on the committee, and we will have a discussion of responsibility, and then we will also see if the word has the right word in this society and in this Parliament, and I only hope that it will at least then accompany the right actions to enforce responsibility, even better, and much better, if the responsibility has already been established at all levels by then. Then, of course, that debate would no longer be necessary in such a form. It would be best for society.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u109	Branko Grims, if I understand correctly, you do not then take advantage of the procedural proposal and do not put the debate to the vote. We continue with Mr Jan Škobernet's question, namely, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšič, who is rightly absent today. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! All of us who travel several times a week, sometimes even several times a day on roads and roads, where there is a third development axis missing, of course, talk about when and how eagerly we expect it to be, say, on a daily basis. My colleague Ranc from Koroška will of course know this very well. And these days, when we discussed the development potentials of this region in the context of the visit of Social Democrats in the White Region, in Metlika and in Montenegro, we have, of course, found that without adequate logistical support, any debate in some way is falling away because Slovenia, Europe, is now in a situation where there is economic growth, when there is a lot of investment, it is also invested by businessmen, capitalists from other continents and a key issue in this race until the next fall, of course, who will be able to obtain enough people, enough jobs, enough products and, finally, the Minister of Economy, who sits with us today, will be able to say, make good use of the potential of reindustrialisation that this country has. Both protocols are signed with regard to the timeline for the construction of the third development axis, both in its southern leg and in its northern leg. This, of course, makes us happy to speak in favour of making use of the potentials that we can offer in the Shaleski region, in Koroška, in the White landscape and in Dolenjska. However, my colleagues and colleagues, including people from the field, for example, Councillor Samir Khalil reminds me that in the budget the numbers do not follow the signed protocols and that it is difficult to look optimisticly at the timeline for the construction of the third development axis, but when in the next two years, at least it seems, we do not find any money that would adequately support such signatures of these protocols. That is why my question is to the Minister of Infrastructure, and I wish him well on a business trip: When will the first construction activities begin both in the south and in the north? Where and how will the state provide adequate money either within the DARS, or is there sufficient debt limits there, is this completed or not, to establish in some way one of the last developmental legs that we still lack in the country as soon as possible? It is probably an emphasis that in both parts of the South and the North, people need and need to repeat it in a bloody way. I thank the Minister for his answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u111	You want oral or written, have I overheard? Get up. We're moving on. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr. Zdravko Počvalšku. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I'm a little surprised, but they're obviously desperate, given the list I have. Nice greetings to the Minister and the Minister! I'm gonna start a little personal. Last week, some were happy that I wasn't in the byte, others were sad. With a small delegation of the National Assembly, I was at the OECD annual meeting, the parliamentary dimension, if I may say so, in Paris and all Thursday we devoted ourselves to the budget – budget transparency, involving people in the preparation of budgets, the impact of lobbying, not only economic, but also some global and regional NGOs in the formulation of budgets. There I pointed out two things, which usually people find hard to understand when I say this, because somehow budgets are too much to look at only through numbers and from the position of ministers and ministers through some indexation, which is of course a little logical, whether one will get more, or the other will get less, everyone would like to respect their portfolio. But what are basically the budgets? I say the budget is basically the story of a society. You can also see in the budget where we screwed up, what could go better, what the situation is. From the budget, if you can read it, unfortunately there are some mayors who don't even know it for a few years, but most of them aren't, and you can read it and see where we're going. Of course, the transparency of budgets, where in some, I will say, the basic level in Slovenia we have no problems, because these are publicly accessible things, but I have also warned there, we also need to talk about, I will say, the non-readability of these budgets. The Slovenian state budget is one big pile of paper that falls on your leg, and you'll have a mistake, it's a sea of some tables. I am some first budget maybe even over scrutinizing, if I express myself in English and I was a little bit appalled, here, speaking to me, my former student, he was talking about the budget and what colleague Kalil, from his undergraduate years, from fax I know him, says about the third development axis. And so I don't run out of time, in the first round I ask an important minister and minister: Where is the story of our budget? Because I don't see him properly. Why do I ask you two, could I ask someone else? Because your ministries are the ministries where jobs and capital are being broken down. However we are turning around, these are key areas in which, after all, all four budgets and cohesion are being filled. I hope you'll tell me a little story and I'm very forgiving as an opposition Member to ask you such a nice question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, who would want to be the first? Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Duck, thank you for asking. I understand that you are under the influence of the debate on the OECD, which is always a little wider and you can look at the budget differently than you can through the numbers that are usually at the forefront. When we look at both the prepared budget in the Government and in the National Assembly, above all items that are interesting as you have found, indexation is seen. The fact about the budget, perhaps even more broadly, is that what we create is divided and priorities are seen within it. I absolutely agree with this, and in fact, the problem of budgets or budget discussions every year is because we usually only look at indexation, realisation and therefore remain within the given frameworks of individual resources. It's just inside here that you can see maybe where there's more money than last year, that there are those government priorities, because then you know the money, which is more created, yes. But you need to know, for example, that the MDDSZ is one of the larger ones besides education, if we say it's a billion and a billion and a half, and I think that 87-89% is a legal obligation, so it's actually possible to redistribute the maneuver space, as we've had for example a discussion that the Ministry would give more to investments in public welfare institutions to do it, if you're looking at only a MDSZ or a colleague of restrooms, it's actually just to take something within your policy and give it to others. That is why the budget is as important as the whole. Transparency in this story, I think. Just as we have a debate in the National Assembly, budgets are public. However, one, perhaps even from the point of view of this debate that we have today, is important. When we look at budgets and cuts of funds, we must not forget that it is the responsibility of the State to provide funds for the payment of all legal rights and that sometimes, if you look at the differences between the budget adopted, for example, 2016 and then the implementation of the 2016 budget, I tell you, we have realised a few million more for our department than we were given in the budget cut itself, because it is important that the state guarantees all legal rights, payments. Except, of course, if the policy were to decide and it would be accepted in the National Assembly to intervene in individual legal rights, but at least this did not happen in the area of social affairs. I don't know if I'll give my colleague a chance if he has anything to add to the budget for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u115	Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u116	Mr President, Mr President! While I have asked written questions about the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, I must say in this budget that we have a solid basis, although we are never satisfied with it, that we are still carrying out our main tasks. Our area of action is broad, research, development, innovation on the one hand, legislative framework on the other. I must say that I am pleased with the fact that we have been able to make realisations in the field of foreign direct investment, that we have in some way made a hard time but have nevertheless been able to support all activities in problem areas. On the inside, however, we have three bodies in the composition that are in some way supporting the implementation of economic activity, namely the Slovenian Regional Development Fund, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and SPIRIT, as a central agency for the promotion of foreign direct investment. I must say that if I make a few words to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, there is a business plan for 2018 in preparation and that the Supervisory Board will deal with it by the end of October this month. The operation of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, I must say, is not financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia, however, provides funding for start-up incentives for companies in the field of innovative enterprises, wood use, culture, the creative sector of €3.5 million. In 2018, the implementation of substantive support to seed recipients continues and funds of €350,000 from the European Cohesion Policy will be made available for this purpose. In addition, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund implements guarantees for bank loans, subsidies, interest rates and micro loans from the released funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u117	Dr. Franz Ducky, please, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Okay, I'm just gonna be honest. I've asked this question on purpose, like a rhubarb, to see how you'll answer it. The fact is, I can admit that I also talked to Dr. Lightener at the OECD about this 2030 strategy and it's a little strange to me here, I thought that at least Mr. Rest, because it seems to me that his calves are still dreaming of me and those smart specialization strategies, that's what I meant by this, not the entrepreneurial fund. Why? Anyone who takes politics a little more seriously, of course, knows what they're saying. Budgets, all of them are largely lined up with the obligations imposed by this house, sometimes we think too little about it. At the same time, of course, they have some flexibility, which is this overrealisation, if I put it like the resident colleague said. What's bothering me? Of course, the opposition will always be critical of the budgets, this is a description of our work and tasks. It bothers me that the current government is going to boast that we're going to have, what, 50 plus, out there somewhere, a million. You know, maybe it wouldn't be bad for this plus to be just 10, but we would have pushed those 40 million into a smart specialization strategy, into what we talked about earlier, we're an ageing society, and in fact, we haven't made one serious home of older citizens or pensioners in 14 years. This is basically how I look at the budget, and it seems to me that if ministers and ministers are caught in everyday life, that at least we, who ultimately set up the budget, not the ministers, not the government, not the executive power, exercise the authority, you propose it. This house is the house where the budget debate takes place. It seems to me that I have therefore asked this question that we finally begin to realize this and that we ourselves are “deroging” the National Assembly and we are also launching a more serious substantive debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, is there anyone else who would like to add? I guess not. Mr. Duck, you have the floor. Do you probably want to make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u120	Yes, of course, I would like to make a procedural proposal to hold this debate, because usually – what happens then? In practice, it happens to be such a different opposition. For example, when we came to Parliament, I said, look, in Levica, then in the United Left we won't be writing budget amendments about bridges, sections of roads and so on. I ride a train on a checkpoint, I can write so many amendments that for two days we will only process my amendments, which is of course important, but it is possible to solve in a different way, which, here, colleague Lah sits there, most often together warns. It seems to me that it is important to take a few steps away and, after all, to view the budget holistically. Once it was popular to say that we would have a project budget, some former finance minister talked about it a lot, and they said, "Stop trying to do that, let's stay in indexation." But I think from this story, as I read it, if I only touch my little narrower area, the only thing that sticks out is, yeah, we'll give it to the railways. Great, fine. But then we have to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs whether that means that this money is going to go so far as to go to Siemens, whether the money is going to go so far as to get it from Slovenian companies that will not do any financial or otherwise restructuring like Henkel in Maribor, and in this way will also be Slovenia's future budget regardless of the government, which will be a bit thicker if I put it that way. Now I hope that Magno will not happen to us in the medium term what Henkel did to us in Maribor. But you know, it's nothing new. The traps of globalisation were one book in the mid-1990s, when the directors of the largest German companies boasted that they would no longer pay taxes in Germany by the year 2000, but that they would be able to do so globally. But usually, as they say in Maribor, when you get to the bull, then the National Assembly and people have to socialize the losses. In this context, it seems to me, considering how, to a large extent, let's say from 2004 to 2014 or 2015, we have imported this country, we also need to think about the budget. I hope you will support me, even though I am a realistic pessimist, and given the current coalition, I fear that this more substantive general debate will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of Health of Miley Kolar Celarc, she's here now. Can I ask you a question or should I wait for the Minister to sit down? In fact, there's no point in talking to the wall if the minister doesn't listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u123	Go ahead, Mrs. Godec, I think you can. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u124	Aya, the secretary already knew. Good. My question concerns a general public order for vascular resistors, which was completed according to my data at the end of August. On 7 September 2017, the press conference of the Ministry of Health was held, where representatives of the Ministry, Mr Glajar and experts and the Ministry of Public Administration presented how the public procurement was carried out. At that time, at this press conference, by one of the experts in the public tender, this is Dr. Night presented, I think, five points, as far as I have written down how the Ministry or Government should proceed with this public contract, which, according to the Ministry of Health, was cancelled, because all suppliers offered higher prices or the majority offered higher prices than were required in the public tender. I am now interested in the Minister: What have you been since, like, seven? 9. 2017, done in this area? Have you completed any of the points? It was proposed to notify the multinationals of the arrogance of suppliers who offered higher prices in public tenders, then to notify the Government somehow of the relevant authorities of the European Commission of the event in Slovenia in the field of public procurement, to call on Slovenian suppliers to interview overpriced what has occurred or to warn them of unacceptable arrogance in this regard, to apply for a public invitation to tender, then to issue a re-examination and to form prices in the same way as the official information for Sweden received by the Ministry of Health, and to immediately inform the Ministry of Health of the prices of the stents offered and to require the hospital authorities to request or expect suppliers to offer the same prices as they are in UKC Ljubljana where they are supposed to be the lowest at present. Given that this has been exposed to the press conference and that the Minister of Health has promised the representative that these points will be implemented, because the Minister is already supposed to conduct similar matters through bilateral talks with other countries, that is to say that it is a market segmentation, that we are not somehow in the single European market, I am interested in Mrs Minister, what you have done in this area on these five points, I think you have them in front of you or you know what I am talking about. Please, if you can say: What were the measures taken by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Administration or the Government as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u125	The Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u126	Your Honor! Thank you for asking. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly! On 1 September, it was decided not to award a contract for any of the five sets of contracts because none of the tenders received was admissible or complete. What were the reasons for rejecting all tenders? These were primarily higher prices of stent, conditioned maximum prices in public procurement or non-compliance of individual tenderers, the so-called condition of a randomised study. I can tell you a little later what it means. The procedure is not yet formally concluded due to the audit application lodged by the KEFO provider d.o.o. The MJU rejected the applicant’s application by decision on 20. 9. 2017 and the matter in accordance with the law immediately withdrew into further resolution to the State Audit Commission. Despite the fact that the MJU, immediately the following day, said on 21 September, sent a decision, the authorised legal company of the applicant raised the application for review only on 2 October, is said to be on the deadline when these shipments are being raised and then, on 5 October, the applicant for the review application lodged a complaint with the Ministry of Public Administration. The applicant's audit application and his appeal must now be decided by the competent State Audit Commission. Until the competent audit authority finally decides on the matter, the procedure for the award of the contract in question, as you know, is not permitted to continue in accordance with the law. As soon as the MJU receives the decision of the State Commission, we will carry out further activities related to the award of the contract. This is about what we, too, have learned about the public, what we will continue to do when the matter is legally concluded. These are that we will be informed in writing about the course of unsuccessful public procurement and, of course, the reasons behind the failure of the stent producers through the diplomatic consular network. In particular, it will be subject to the conditions of affordable prices of stents for Slovenian hospitals, which was established on the basis of documented prices available in Sweden. For this reason, we will appeal to manufacturers to take into account the objective conditions set by Slovenia in its public procurement exercise. Following the legitimacy of the decision, the Ministry of Public Administration and Health will, of course, implement a new procurement procedure. This, of course, means that the hospitals, which are currently five, and now the New Town, which is six, which have catheter laboratories, will be involved in the acquisition of stents at this time under existing contracts. In the case of new procedures, the catheter laboratories are also aware of the prices of failed joint procurement. A new public procurement of stents will be published both on the Slovenian public procurement portal and on the EU portal, as was the case in the first case, ensuring that such publication will be published in the Slovenian and English languages. In fact, this means that it will reorder without any substantial changes in the content and subject matter of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u127	Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u128	Minister, we're talking about two things. I didn't ask you why you didn't carry out the procurement procedure. I understand, someone has complained and these matters must follow the procedures required by law. I ask you whether you have informed principals or manufacturers about the arrogance of the applicants or suppliers, since the highest price offered to suppliers will remain or are a fact, are a fact. And no matter what the State Audit Commission will say, these prices are a fact, Madam Minister, and I'm asking you if, although I got the answer, you still haven't informed the multinationals, and you've gone seven. 9, 6 days after the public procurement decision at a press conference where you publicly praised how you would perform this or how you would rigorously go to suppliers who also arrogantly applied for public contracts at twice the price. Now you are telling me that you will not do this until the State Audit Commission decides whether it is a matter of correctness or an irregularity. The highest prices or prices of applicants, suppliers remain, Madam Minister. And I'm curious – I don't want to talk about randomized studies because they don't have anything to do with what I'm now asking myself – why didn't you go into the procedure, into what you promised 7. 9, 6 days after a public invitation to a press conference, although today you are saying that the procedure is not yet concluded, and you had a press conference before the proceedings were concluded? Madam Secretary, why did you leave? 9. at the press conference and with these five points Dr. Night has been deceived by the public, even given the word to him to tell him as a doctor what the government must do? I don't want to ask you right now if you're embarrassed that one of your doctors is talking. So why didn't you or did you ask the other hospitals to adjust their prices to UKC Ljubljana? Why have you still not informed the multinational about suppliers in Slovenia despite the decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u129	Dear Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you for the supplementary question. I respect the laws in force in Slovenia. You are well aware that until all procedures, including all complaints, audits and the final decision of the State Audit Commission, are completed, we cannot act or carry out any other activities. Of course, we went to the press to inform the public of what happened in the case of this joint public contract. And one more thing, Mrs. Godcheva, you are operating on the prices at which the walls were procured before the beginning of my term of office. You also know well in the Intravision, where all the purchase prices of all the stents, if I leave aside, how much and what they correspond to the technical conditions and elements, are significantly lower than they were obtained before the beginning of my mandate. So we can't say that hospitals will also continue to buy stents at these high prices in 2013 and back. You know very well that the UKC have been able to negotiate already significantly lower prices. But what I said that I would inform the principles, by the way, I have said several times that even in many of the other calls that we have made ourselves, we have actually informed and also called the main producers within the European Union whether they will apply for the tender. The answer was always: “We have our representatives and representatives in Slovenia. So turn to them." It is necessary to know that in a certain part these are the business rules under which the tenderers operate. Once again, none of these hospitals that have catheter laboratories today buy stents at these prices, at which your investigative commission conducted an examination or analysis. One more thing needs to be seen is that no one in this country has prepared the medical conditions and standards that we will be purchasing or purchasing until we have prepared a common invitation to tender. This was done for the first time since this was also the basis in addition to the price, which professional and medical criteria must meet at the appropriate price in the common public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u131	Mrs Godec, you have the floor to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u132	Minister, once again, you obviously don't listen to me at all. I didn't talk about any prices, I didn't point out any prices, I didn't talk about the investigator. You're talking about me exposing the prices that were established in 2013. I don't know where you got this. I am asking you about a joint public order for vascular resistors made in 2017. And nothing else. Now, evasive, if you're saying some things I'm not at all, I don't know what the point is. Madam Minister, if you respect the legislation and so on, all such as grass, then you will probably be in the debate, I hope that this proposal will be adopted, and also explain how common public procurements in other areas run, not only on the veins. I asked you — why? Despite the fact that the price of suppliers is clear, you have not informed the multinational, because the matter will not be changed after the decision of the State Audit Commission absolutely nothing. The fact will be, suppliers have also offered twice the price you requested in the invitation to tender or requested the Ministry of Health and Public Administration. So, Madam Minister, no one speaks for back, for 2014, 2013, but for 2017, when you are the Minister and you are responsible for these matters. If you could get 7. 9. At the press conference, you praised how you managed or failed to do so with this public contract, then take responsibility for the fact that at the press conference or your representatives supported the five points of Dr. Night and that you had already negotiated bilaterally with other ministers, probably ministers, well, how multinationals operate in the European market, that for Slovenia there is a higher price and that you are also talking to other countries. Seven. 9. So you can boast at the press conference how successful you are, and today you are telling me that you cannot produce matters because there has been a complaint against the State Audit Commission. Once again, I think that the work of the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, as well as this responsibility and the common public procurement should also be held in public debate, so that people are finally told that the Ministry, which explains how successful joint public procurements are to prove that they are not and that, until now, there have been no successful calls on these common public procurements and that the prices that have fallen have definitely not been at European prices. However, as regards the fact that hospitals do not supply at the same prices, there is once again another issue which can also be developed through this debate. In fact, the catheter laboratory in Slovenia procures vascular cords at very different prices, not unlike 5% or 3%, but with very higher percentages. You know that. I propose to hold a public debate on common public procurement at the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u133	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October, in the framework of the votes. Mr Zvonko Lah will be the question sent to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Mr. Lach. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all the ministers you are here! There is a big question for us with regard to the adoption of spatial construction legislation, how the government or the state will save ownership of municipal roads on private land, the flow of municipal roads on private land. By 2002, congregations had categorized some 31,000 miles [31,000 km] of municipal roads, now some 32 thousand of them, some 23,000 miles [23,000 km] of private - owned land. According to the Roads Act, the municipalities are expected to solve this problem in 2012. As far as we know, this issue is not solved. The municipalities have major problems, investors, and citizens also have problems because they cannot obtain construction permits if the import road goes through private property. That is why I thought that the government or the ministry, yours, would put in place in this amendment of the legislation a solution to similar solutions in the Construction Law, because a certain legalisation could be carried out in a short and constitutional procedure, so that in ZUREP-2 there would also be an internal solution to how the municipalities could solve this problem. We now have a case-law in which the courts comply with the Real Law Code and give property rights over public benefit. The property determined by a specific area shall also be regarded as property of that property owned by that owner. After compensation comes, there are abnormally high compensations, which, for the first time, the congregations cannot process, the process itself, nor do they have any money to pay, since for all 23 thousand kilometers this would cost a few billion of all congregations, complete procedures. That's why I want to know: How is this built in, and how does the Government intend to resolve this in future or in due time?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u135	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u136	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr Zvonko Lah, thank you for the question. The proposal for a law on the regulation of premises is based on the regulation so far of the area of expropriation and limitation of property rights, which means that by virtue of the Constitution it allows such private property interventions only for public benefit and against compensation or compensation in kind. Similarly to the current regulation, road construction or takeover is referred to as one of the basic decommissioning purposes. However, the existence of a public advantage for this purpose is linked to the relevant spatial implementation acts. However, in contrast to the regulation so far whereby the public benefits of decommissioning could not be demonstrated if the site or land which is the subject of decommissioning was not designed so precisely that it was able to demonstrate on the ground cadastral. This new proposal of the law, however, allows public benefit to be demonstrated even in cases where spatial acts are not prepared with such precision. In such cases, the Government or the municipal council may find that on a certain property the construction of a building for which there is a decommissioning purpose is indispensable and is for public benefit. This option will be taken into account, in particular, in cases of older spatial acts which, due to the rules of the legislation on which they were adopted, were not prepared with the degree of precision required for public benefit. With regard to the exercise of public benefit, it is also important to note the new option presented by the proposal for a law on economic infrastructure facilities already built and recorded in the collective cadastral of the public infrastructure. Such facilities and networks shall be deemed to be of public benefit under the law itself. In such cases, the urgency procedure shall also apply to the execution of the decommissioning procedure. The proposal for a law, in contrast to all the arrangements so far, also offers the possibility that the decommissioning procedure may be initiated on the basis of the request of the depriving party and not only the beneficiary, as is now the case. Thus, real estate owners who are burdened with public infrastructure and public goods facilities may also require real legal relations to be regulated when an agreed regime is not possible. The draft law also contains a rule passed by the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest in a Area by which the decommissioning procedure is introduced by a non-suspensive decision and not by a decision and is extended to all decommissioning procedures. Finally, the amendment's proposal for an additional proposal for a construction law, which would require a minimum communal supply only for newly built buildings, but not for existing ones. This should address problems in the procedures for issuing building permits under the applicable law relating to the issue of categorised private-owned public roads. These innovations and upgrades will certainly also affect the issues of regulating real-estate relations in the field of categorised roads across private land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u137	Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor to complete the answer to your request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u138	Thank you. Yeah, it sounds really nice, but you know, the hell it is in detail how to process it. The problem is still about decommissioning. The spatial act carried out on the accuracy of the plot is not sufficient because the plot cannot be implemented without the owner’s signature, without the owner’s signature, this plot cannot be implemented. So far only a country can do this for its line projects and there is no such change in this law. Since the problem is so acute, the State Council is also new, I think, on Friday it introduced the law and they also know the new legislation and the spatial and construction laws, and they went to introduce a law that makes it necessary to solve it. I am pleased that the Minister has also come this time in charge of local communities, because this is not resolved. You can't dissipate anyone if he doesn't land on the plot. You can only dissipate with a plot with the exact surface that is determined by the plot. If that's not the case, you can't. 30. 3. 2015 The Council of State had a consultation on this subject, all stakeholders, of which 2 years is half and nothing has happened. Nothing so far. And I don't think this legislation is going to solve how to deal with this. It's going to fall in the Constitutional Court. Even this proposed law, as far as I know, is not going to go through, maybe it's already a legal service. At that time, I had my contribution, where, together with the municipalities, we determined the process, how it would appear that the matter would go through, and now I will give it to you. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, we can continue with the questions raised by the Members. [[advertising from the hall]] You want an answer? Mrs. Irene Maycen, would you like to add something? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u140	To be honest with you, I have a feeling that I may not have listened correctly to the fact that I was not asked anything, but I was told that these solutions would not help us to implement differently, more effectively, the regulation of local, municipal roads in spatial acts or the writing of the land book. In view of the fact that I myself have dealt with this subject in the congregation, Mr Lah, I myself hope to say that in many cases with landowners it is possible to agree on and harmonise the relevant procedure. I also stated that the spatial acts of an older date do not have the drawn limits of municipal roads to the plot exactly, but in this proposal of our law they can provide a sufficient basis for the exercise of expropriation. It is best if the client, the landowner, and the congregation agree. Then there is also the reason why someone is not at the border or at the border. I'm still saying, I think we've talked about this before, that property, written after 1991 into the constitution, is protected, and that sometimes we had, at a time before 1991, another system that just told us that the roads were ours. In fact, it is a matter of regulating a situation that arose over the decades until 1991 and that roads and, in fact, the entire municipal infrastructure were being built on private land. I myself know, I assure you that even if there is a will in the congregation, it is possible to negotiate with the owners. Sometimes you just don't like it. At that time, however, there is a type of decommissioning that usually has major financial implications, much more than if the agreement is mutual. I doubt that any other discharge that goes beyond the rights of landowners will last in the Constitutional Court. If you're explaining to me that this arrangement is not going to happen, I'm just saying that property is so highly protected that the Constitutional Court will certainly not give up on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I see that Mr Zvonko Lah wants a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u142	That's right, I'd take this business opportunity. I've already said that the courts gave property rights to public benefit. As you said, the law itself provides for public benefit. That's not good enough. It's not enough. The act must be adopted by special procedure, such as implementing spatial acts or spatial acts, accuracy to the partial limit, which we do not have and is not in this law. I don't think this law, which the Council of State has proposed, will go through. It may already be a legal service, but in this legislation, which we will deal with here on Thursday or Wednesday, and even accept, I don't think we've solved anything. Ask the mayors or the Association of Municipalities. By the way, you remember, I'll be a little bit of a joke, the movie when they sang it there, when they took the bus to Belgrade and the road ran out, there was a paved road. We have made no progress since then, even now everyone has the right to dig the road if it is his own land. Only so far do drivers drive milk from farmers on these roads, take children to school, and then take the bus to Belgrade. 70 years after that, we don't have this process processed. And look, if we had a very clear process that was designed to dissipate someone by simple means, the congregation would also be easier to agree with an individual. I've had these cases as mayor because I would know when to ask the lawyers that there's nothing else for him to get just increased costs for the court and the lawyer. But if we don't have these legal practices, so far they're gone, and then everyone's gonna say, they're gonna be blackmailing me, give me that much. Just like in that movie: "Breathe, son!" So he hit the tire. This is where he's gonna dig the road. I have a case where one of the farmers wanted something from the congregation, and they said to the congregation: “No, you can’t get it.” You know what he said? “I will dig your road there because it is on mine.” Threat! But then she's not, good luck. But you could, and no one can hurt him. This is a practice and we do not yet have such legislation to be able to regulate it in a simple manner. In addition to the State, for line facilities there is a possibility of an urgent partiality procedure. However, there is no necessary partiality procedure, which is the basis for everyone. Some spatial act adopted in such a way that the public is involved in the adoption of this act. A municipal decree is not enough. Or the beginning of a decision on decommissioning.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u143	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We continue with Mrs Evo Irgl, who will raise the question of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On February 2nd, I have already asked you written questions relating to social exclusion and poverty among the elderly. Of course, many things have not changed since then. In Slovenia, about 290 000 people still live below the poverty threshold, representing approximately 14.5%. We have a large number of unemployed people, especially long-term unemployment, although it has to be acknowledged here that unemployment has fallen slightly. But as we say, long-term unemployment is still a problem. Individuals face severe social pressures. I am meeting them as a Member and also as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. We have clearly stated in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that we are a social and legal state, but here I seriously wonder, given all this information, whether we are just on paper or even in reality. Here, of course, is the issue of social justice. Research also shows that older people are most at risk of poverty, among them the most women, those over 65 years of age, especially because of their underprivileged pensions. Despite their full - time work, they cannot survive today despite their honest work. They cannot survive and cannot live with dignity, which, of course, also leads to social exclusion and also to so-called energy poverty. It will be winter months now, and we will face this concept and reality of energy poverty again. As you know, this is an ever-increasing problem in Slovenia, the most affected low-income households. I want to know: Are you more prepared this winter to deal with these problems and problems? I also want to know: How many people, according to recent data, suffer from low living standards due to social exclusion? Have the numbers changed for the better according to my last written question? Do you think, Madam Minister, the social state and thus social justice are actually working for us, or is it only at the declaration level, that is, on paper? Let me point out that both of you are aware of this, too, of the last guardian of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u145	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u146	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Member, thank you for this question. The only internationally comparable institute or number we have is, of course, the degree of risk of poverty. This is evaluated once a year. in 2017, we have data, unfortunately, from 2016, which takes into account data from 2015, such is statistics. If you're asking me if anything's changed from February to today, you know it can't be done because it's measured once a year. The fact is that this year it fell by 0.4 percentage points compared to last year, but still, unfortunately, it lives in Slovenia 280 thousand people under the risk of poverty. There were more, but to each of these 280 thousand, this number doesn't mean much. However, when we talk about the context and measure the Slovenian social state, the justice of this country, it is still necessary to take into account that these people are living in distress and that solutions should also be found for all, however, in a real context. Unfortunately, the situation in many countries is much worse within the European Union than in Slovenia. If you look at the risk of poverty in Sweden, it is higher than in the Republic of Slovenia. So unfortunately, poverty is more or less everywhere within the European Union. And Slovenia, you will not believe, according to the European Commission, is one of the most effective countries, how much money we devote to preventing poverty and how much we are actually preventing through transfers. Our efficiency is over 42%, while the average in the European country is 35%. So by 35%, the risk of poverty is reduced by transfers, and our policy over this percentage is achieved. Now, if we're going to separate groups. The fact is, they are the most vulnerable and more attention needs to be paid to the much older women you have highlighted. Unemployment, as you mentioned, has been substantially reduced, not a little, but essentially, we can say. For young people 42% since 2014, we currently have 80,000 unemployed people. However, the fact is that long-term unemployment, when the number of unemployed decreases, of course, remains largely those with major problems, more measures are needed for them, so it is clear that the percentage of long-term unemployed is clear, that was also during the period 2004-2008, when we looked at, we had 60,000 unemployed, and there was a very high percentage of those who are long-term unemployed. These are these cycles, and there is certainly a need for an active employment policy that is very focused on them. As far as the elderly are concerned, it is important that the last pension reform 2013 of my predecessor has stopped the fall in pensions. This is important. It is important to know that it is also important that pensions are coordinated. Last year they agreed more than they would normally be in 2018, and this assumption or coordination will be twice, otherwise by 2.2% they will be in accordance with the basic law of the PPIZ and 1.1 will be an extraordinary harmonisation for pensioners. On the other hand, the annual regress will be received by all pensioners, this year they already have, the second year will be a little more, so 140 million will be earmarked for regress. Please remember that at the end of October, women with the lowest pension base working full-time will receive a new calculated pension at the end of October. Indeed, we have adopted a law that all those with a full pension have the lowest pension of EUR 500, i.e. over that protective allowance, and this is the most important thing for women. Among the 45,000 people who will receive a new higher pension, there are 29 thousand 722 women, including 7,000 disabled persons. In the light of this, perhaps a protective supplement, changes in the markings had an impact. We have more than once more recipients of a protective supplement, especially older women, so that we have to wait for data especially now that economic growth, when all indicators in the country are improving, is still expected to decrease the risk of poverty. And here again these social activation measures are very important to empower people, those farthest from the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u147	Mr Franc Jurša will raise the question of the matter before the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u148	Vice President, thank you. Nice greetings to all representatives of the Government, especially to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnikar. The Law on Local Elections provides that candidates for members of municipal councils in individual constituencies may be appointed by signing a group of electors who have permanent residence in the constituency. The required number of signatures is at least 1% of the number of voters in the electoral unit who voted in the last local elections in the municipal council, but not less than 15 voters. It also provides that a list of candidates in the electoral unit may be established by signing a group of voters who have permanent residence in the electoral unit. The required number of signatures is at least 1% of the number of voters in the electoral unit who voted in the last regular elections in the municipal council, but not less than 15 and not more than 1 000. Given the low percentage of electoral signatures guaranteed, signatures are very easy to collect, as has been shown by practice, and this is the most obvious in smaller municipalities where literally one family can have enough signatures. Thus, in the congregational councils, many of the saints are elected from the so - called independent list. I ask you, Mr. Minister: At the Ministry of Public Administration, have you considered raising this legal provision to 2 percent or more?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u149	The word has the Minister of Public Administration. Mr. Jursha, please turn off the microphone. Mr. Boris Koprivnikar, please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u150	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Member, for that question. We are, of course, well aware of this issue at the Ministry of Public Administration, because this has been the subject of a judgment in the past and, as you know, also in the National Assembly, the amendment of the Law on Local Elections, but this amendment does not provide for this amendment in the public debate itself before this and the consultation has not really been put forward, so this proposal has not been drafted. It is necessary to know, however, that it is precisely this relationship, precisely on this issue, that two per cent, one per cent of the votes required for the submission of the application have already been decided by the Constitutional Court in 2006. While the instigators were natural persons, it was then that the Constitutional Court took the view that the provision of independent candidates was a high democratic standard, and it was also very important at local level that, at the time of the 2 % threshold, the threshold was then lowered to 1% on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. So we already had this situation, and on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, it was returned to 1%. But it is also an interesting situation, here I have a case from the Municipality of Maribor, where it is quite the opposite, which is a large municipality, for example, in the 2002 elections, 912 signatures were needed for the City Councillor's candidacy, more than needed for the election. So, this anomaly comes to light, it is said that you actually need more signatures for the self-candidature than you actually needed to elect, but regardless of this possible anomaly, the key thing is that the Constitutional Court has already ruled on it, has returned the threshold to 1%. This is why the amendment of the law did not provide for this nor did it have a concrete initiative to actually change it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u151	Franc Jurša, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u152	Thank you for that part of the answer, Mr. Secretary. But I have to say, we're judging in a completely different way. It is noted that a large number of candidates, who are also politically active in a particular party, prefer to choose this method of election to the municipal council rather than through a party. Above all, because, under the terms, they promote themselves in public, how independent they are. And believe me, a lot of these municipal councillors who are later elected, in fact, I have to talk about candidates, they have had their time very important functions within political parties, but they have found that voters are looking in some way at those you give them on independent lists, as if they were politically undecided, but of course then they have a better chance of being elected in some way. However, I also have to say that it is easy and simple to say that after the municipal council has been elected from these leaves, it is easy for the collective body to work, because as many municipal councilors as there are, there can be as many different interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u153	Minister Koprivnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you. As it is said, the arguments, I can also agree with them, are political in nature and how to decide on this at local level. If, as such, proposals were made during the drafting phase of the Law, it would also, of course, be for the National Assembly to decide on such an arrangement, otherwise, the Constitutional Court took the view that the nomination of independent candidates or candidate lists was one of the important mechanisms for the participation of the municipality's inhabitants in local decision-making processes past political parties. That was the position of the Constitutional Court at the time when it was decided, although of course I take these explanations to some extent as logical and acceptable, but then this is the political decision of the National Assembly, bearing in mind that the Constitutional Court has already ruled on this once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the question of the question of the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! I will raise my own question about the anti-floating security of the Silesian Valley or measures to improve flood protection in the Municipality of Railways. As you know, on 18 September 2007, severe floods occurred in the railways, which unfortunately also claimed fatalities. In April 2013, the Government adopted a DN on flood measures in Selska Sora, together with a dry retainer under Suša and the transfer of the state road past the old part of Železnikov. In the summer of 2014, the Ministry appointed a head for the preparation of projects for flood action; in July 2015, an invitation was made for the selection of an engineer and a designer. Since autumn 2015 it has been designed, and in 2016 it has started to add three tributaries to the measures of the narrow section of Sore: Czech Republic, Dašnica and Prijedno Smolevo. In early 2016, the Water Directorate was established, and in September they began to coordinate an agreement on joint intervention in the provision of flood safety and congestion between the ILO, the Waters Directorate and the Infrastructure Directorate. The agreement was signed after eight months in April of this year. At the beginning of 2017, the Waters Directive began to form an application for the application for cohesion funds. The role is still being drawn up and coordination at the ILO, in the cohesion sector where some amendments have been proposed. Once the application is ready, it will be sent to the Government for Cohesion and Development, and European funds will be released. At that time, they will also be able to employ additional personnel and start preparing projects for the second phase of the Suša retainer. The Director of the Water Directorate promised that the application would be ready by the end of November 2017, that is to say, it is a month and a half. The construction licence for the first phase was to be obtained in the second half of 2018, by then the contractor was also to be selected, in the second half of 2018 started with parts and all works were to be completed by the end of 2022. However, as long as we monitor these designs and preparatory work, we note that the project has not been provided with sufficient funding to make the design and other preparations more current and faster. The mayor and I talked twice about this subject in one week, and we can't say that we're not happy because we know some moves. Above all, we are interested, Madam Minister, the deadlines are clearly set, we know in particular this November 2017, as was the agreement of this April, and that the next year should begin and things will be completed by 2022. The main thing that interests me, given that the application has been being prepared for 10 months, is: Will this matter really be ready and harmonised within one month in November 2017, it is said? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u157	The Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr Jan Mahnic, honourable Member, thank you for the question. If I just focus on these two last questions of yours, I'd say there's another role in the review. Within the framework of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is the body in the composition; the Water Directorate shall first review the application and when it is reviewed and found that all the required elements are in the application, it shall then send it to the Government's Cohesion Service for final approval. I do not hope to tell you that this will be the month of November; but I will be very pleased if it will be another day earlier, because we are paying much attention to preparing these applications. It is true that it would be good if there were more funding. In fact, design alone is such that the difficulty of designing anti-floating measures is considerable. You need to be a connoisseur of that. You have already identified for which inflows these measures should also be developed. In the first phase; the watercourses of the Czech Republic, Dašnica and Przednja Smoleva were not processed and this will need to be subsequently processed. All I can do is add that the estimated value of the project was 36 million 883,000. In this and similar projects, the mayor and I expect from local communities good participation in purchases or in obtaining the right to build, it is usually a purchase of land. It is true, however, that even in this case, if this purchase or service does not take place, then, on the basis of the VAT accepted, it is also possible to dispense with this purchase or service, which we are also avoiding. We are much more committed to preparing an agreement for a customer who owns the land. At the confluence of Selska and Poljanska Sore, we also have an agreement with the Municipality of Škofja Lok, and there will also be counter-flooding measures, although I agree, the Railways project addresses such a solution in the area that the locals can, at least for the most part, convince that their anti-flooding safety is higher than it has been so far, with unbuilt anti-float measures. Surely, however, no construction provides for 100 percent flood safety. We know that climate change, which we are not only experiencing in Europe, is being experienced by the whole world, is also bringing such a disaster so that it can also be questionable. However, the construction of flood-prone measures is absolutely necessary for the railways, and I am sure that the indications that you made too, that this issue will start building next year, will come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u159	Mr. Jean Mahnič, you have the floor to request that the agreement be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u160	Thank you. We see about where the problem is; and that's a short tick, if we call it, at the Ministry. I'm sure things would run faster if we had more personnel. As you yourself said, the main problem is the timing and complexity of projects that people or specifically in this case must carry out by your employees. As far as this re-examination is concerned, I agree with you and we both know the case of the neighbouring Polish Valley, where I have informed you that because of some new circumstances, the bridge's investment has increased by more than 20%, which means that it must go into re-confirmation of the government. We would like to see the Water Directorate move faster. Which is why, you know, it would probably go faster if we had an extra employee. However, the issue is that there is never enough action; we know that the flood in the Railways has been ten years this year, which is quite a long time. We'd expect to be in these ten years; I don't blame you alone here, not at all, because we know how long you've been minister. There's no need for the secretary to answer further if she doesn't want to. If the matter is really going to be like you said it will be signed at the end of November or maybe earlier and that works will start in 2018, as you said at the end, then we will, I believe, all of us will be satisfied. I hope that the entire timeline is followed and that by 2022 the works are also completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. A lovely greeting to all present, a lovely greeting to the distinguished minister! I ask the Minister again the same question that I raised at the meeting of the National Assembly in November 2014. Then I asked the written question in April 2015. Then, in September 2016, the oral question was again sent. Then, in November 2016, a written question. In April 2017, the question referred orally again and in July 2017, the question sent orally again. All the time, this is the question of the appointment of a director at the public institute of Triglav National Park, in our only national park. I must say that the Minister has answered all the questions so far and has always agreed that it is unacceptable, unacceptable and unacceptable, from the point of view of the management of the public institution, that such an important institution in our country is managed by the perpetrator of its duties. I could quote, I have all the magnetograms in front of me, and unfortunately a similar appointment story happened at the end of this year's July. On 20 July, again, irrespective of any claim that the procedure will lead to the appointment of the Director, the reappointment of the Acting Officer, this time for a period of six months. Now, once again, before a dilemma or a test of the confidence of the minister, the ministry, whether in this period that the government still has a bad year at its disposal will indeed appoint the director of our public institution, Triglav National Park. From this point of view also the question: Since it has been almost five months since July, which means that the end of the current term of office will be immediately after the new year, has the Ministry already prepared a new call and initiated all procedures to finally get a full-fledged director in this public office? The Minister, as I have said, in all the answers – I will not quote them, I may continue to say, if necessary – notes for myself that it is unacceptable to run such an important institution by the perpetrator of the responsibility, as this also limits some long-term predictability; in particular, she raises questions about all the performance of the tasks envisaged by this public institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u163	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you. Dear Daniel Krivec, thank you for asking. It is true that the Triglav National Park, as you yourself have stated, has not had a director of the institution for years. I cannot pretend here that I myself have said that I am not satisfied with this; and I am not now satisfied. It is not necessary, however, that a new call for appointment should be issued. I estimate that the current Director shall carry out his/her business in accordance with the tasks envisaged for the Director. It is true, however, that in a similar manner, we are also appointing a director for other institutions, where directors should also be appointed. And even in some of these cases, we have performers of duty. When thinking on these appointments was quite intense, the question arises, at least I think why parks with three, four employees – other parks have more, but we also have parks with a few employees – have a director; or this could not be included in some park association. But I was thinking at the time myself, and I still think today that Triglav National Park is so large, on a scale, even by the number of employees that it remains independent. It is true that in the case of personnel matters, much depends on the person he appoints, i.e. me, from the Minister; some work is done and some implementation is also in the hands of the appointed. Apparently, Triglav National Park, at least for me, is a failed story, and I can't solve it in cooperation with the directors. However, it is possible that part of the reason is that, at the time of appointment for the four-year period of the last director, there was a considerable loss in the park. This loss went into a few hundred thousand euros. However, it was due to the fact that the park wanted to be active and applied for a number of calls in the European Union, even on these calls, that financial resources were to be obtained, but it later turned out that it was not successful at all the park tenders. Basically, my failure is complete; but I have at least one reason to say that even after the last time the director was appointed for four years, there was also an unfortunate end to the park. I do not know how else to say that I agree that for a good atmosphere, it is essential for good work in the park that the management structure is stable and that the projects that are being prepared to work with the employees are being prepared; this is particularly important in the case of the TNP, including with the municipalities whose territory is included in the TNP. In doing so, at least so far, I would be convinced that the current perpetrator of duty is relatively successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u165	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u166	I thank the Minister for these answers, which follow exactly what I have pointed out in all these questions throughout the mandate. Also from your responses, say April 2017, you said that it was essential for the implementation and management of the appointment of a stable and professional person for the management of the institution, which is not a performer of duty in this case. It is interesting, however, that in July 2017, when I asked you about the appointment, because at the time this candidature was already in the final stage and in some way the board of the institution unanimously chose a person who met all the criteria that the Ministry was talking about, or you in your replies, that someone knew about the legislation, the tourist segment, the economic work and so on. The Council of the Institute unanimously, I would say, did not choose; but gave him support, but it did not come up with the appointment of director, but another person named herself V.D. July 2017 you told me in reply, quote: “In the autumn, after the appointment of the Director, let us step up our efforts to negotiate with the municipalities and local communities regarding the amendment of legislation.” You note for yourself that without any stable management of this institution it is difficult to carry out all activities within this institution, including this coordination in the area of the entire park area with all park communities. Thus, it is even more incomprehensible not to be called someone with full powers. And this excuse to go back that when someone with full powers came to some loss, you've adopted the recovery program and it's probably already completed, so this reason can't be. Is there anything else? Maybe there's another answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u167	Madam Minister, perhaps another comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u168	Perhaps I would just respond to the claim that the recovery programme is already complete; I must say it is not. The recovery programme also noted that some of the assets would be made available by reselling the property so that the recovery programme would be modified and extended for the next period. It's hard to tell exactly how high this is. The sale of real estate has been suspended for the purpose of granting housing rights, so that these financial assets, which are still open and must be returned, will have to be provided in different ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u170	Yes, I propose that the Minister's response be discussed in this national assembly, because the issue has been on the table since the beginning of this government's mandate. The Minister has practically repeated every year and agreed that it is necessary to appoint the Director to carry out all of the things she has just talked about, including this recovery programme. For example, in September 2016, she also said to the Parliament's parliamentary question that a rehabilitation programme was being implemented in Triglav National Park. “And this implementation of the recovery route is the basis for business in the next period.” Furthermore: “To implement this recovery programme, after a call for proposals to be made by the end of this year, we want to bring more stability into business and no longer appoint the perpetrator of the duty.” This was in 2016, all the reasons indicate that this is a major problem. I think it is right that this is being discussed in the National Assembly, this is our only national park, the one that covers it. It is unacceptable for practically four years to be guided by the doer of duty and not to eliminate all problems that occur in some way. This conflict between the interests of local communities is also partly due to the fact that we do not have a credible person at the head of the institution who could coordinate all these different interests. In the end, I believe that this is also a burden for the ministry and officials, who, in addition to their duties, have to deal with the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park, because the institution is obviously in such a position with the perpetrator of these tasks, and I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u171	Mr Daniel Krivec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Janja Slug, you have the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, this month, in March, we have already discussed this subject when I asked you a question about the drafting of housing legislation. The adopted Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025 also provides for an amendment, announced these systemic amendments to wider legislation. Why is this so important? Since this legislation protects the rights of high-level owners and allows high-level owners to control the management method, over the manager. I somehow received an answer in March about the time frame for adopting this legislation, but I would particularly like another answer to this issue, precisely because of all the cases that occur on the ground. Let us not forget that atrium happened in Celje, let us not forget that similar things are happening in Ljubljana, Maribor and elsewhere. I am also very closely monitoring the media on this subject. Floor owners are very active, they actually appear daily, they point to certain things. However, as they also point out that they have not been heard and that they are actually prevented from participating in the drafting of this legislation, I am now addressing you with this question. I want to know: Have you received any comments, suggestions, suggestions from top-level owners? Have you studied what you have received? Will any of this be taken into account in concrete substantive solutions? What suggestions or suggestions will be taken into account? Why do we keep getting information from the top-level owners, by different associations of top-level owners, that they are not heard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u173	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u174	Dear President, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs Janja Slug, thank you for the question. The ILO received about 20 different letters from the Association of First-Level Owners of Slovenia. We have also responded to them either directly in the form of an answer to a letter, either by answering the questions of the Ombudsman or by answering written or oral questions. Similarly, the association was invited to public debates and decommissionings related to housing law; and they were also adopted at the meeting. As part of the preparation of the new housing legislation, the proposals of the professional and general public and of the high-level owners concerned will be taken into account as far as possible. In this context, the possibility of increasing the supervision of inspection services over the work of managers will also be examined in detail. Within the framework of the preparation of the new law, specific legislative solutions will be drawn up on the basis of the project task Draft baselines for the renovation of housing legislation in specific areas; proposals and comments received in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law on the Management of Multi-Housing Buildings and Criminal Provisions in 2016; then we will withdraw those amendments, but we will consider proposals and comments – and the other proposals and comments that we have received and are related to the area of housing legislation and on the basis of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, which provides for the introduction of a cost rent and housing allowance. The draft starting points for the renovation of housing legislation offer some new proposals and solutions in the area of legal relations between senior owners as well as in the area of legal relations between senior owners and administrators. The solutions will address some of the problems related to the reserve fund, the mutual relationship contract, the decision-making method of the community of high-level owners, the legal position of the community of high-level owners, the role of the supervisory board or representative of high-level owners. Similarly, some solutions have been proposed to increase transparency and clarity in the business of managers, to define the appointment process more clearly and to recall managers. Among the possible solutions, the draft baselines for the revision of housing legislation are mentioned in the area of governance in each area. Consideration of the prohibition of charging non-payments to non-payers from received payments to the senior owners and, in particular, to the assets of the administrator; the possibility of external audit of operations; the appointment of a two-year supervisory committee to supervise the work of the administrator and to give consent to the selection of tenderers and the conditions for the execution of individual services, or the part to which electricity, water should also be supplied; the prohibition of the conclusion of business of the administrator with connected persons without the consent of the council of the floor owners or the supervisory board. The Board of Level Owners may decide that the administrator must obtain the approval of the Supervisory Board or the Chairman of the Supervisory Board for the selection of service providers or parts. Proposal for a monthly reporting to the floor owners on the costs of operation and maintenance and management of common parts, permanent reserve assets, on the use of reserve funds and the state of outstanding claims. A more detailed definition of the manager's obligation upon termination of the contract. With regard to reserve funds, it is envisaged that the decision on the use of reserve fund funds may only be taken by the floor owners, except in the case of emergency operations where the decision is not possible; then the supervisory board’s consent shall be taken. Proposal for each building to have a separate reserve fund account owned by a community of senior owners and not an administrator. A more detailed definition of the decision-making procedure for high-level owners by signing a document to avoid ambiguities. Possible licensing of managers or defining the conditions necessary for the provision of administrative services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u175	Mrs Janja Slug, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you very much. These are all the things that came in the day through all these cases that we've been monitoring on the ground; and these are the very contents that the high-level owners keep reminding of. I firmly believe that in the preparation of these marriage solutions it is absolutely necessary to listen to the high-level owners, because they are, because of all the experiences that have occurred to them, which I have also closely followed in the case of Atrium in the field. I am sure that what they are saying must, of course, be taken absolutely into account and listened. I believe that these solutions, which you have now listed, will bring some shifts in the right direction. But my question was: Are they sufficiently involved in the preparation of these solutions? Are their suggestions, suggestions taken into account and taken into account? I would like to hear this very specifically and then the time frame for the adoption of legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u177	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u178	At work at the Ministry of Environment and Space, the public is always involved because we have such regulations concerning the public. The satisfaction of the public with inclusion may also be different, especially when certain parts of the law want to be written down by the public. I admit that I haven't spoken to the Association of Important Owners before. The direct conversation is important; however, when I meet them, I want to have these solutions written down so that it will be easier for me to have this conversation. But they met with them, and my colleagues are still meeting. The timetable is foreseen, however, depending on the quality of the preparation of this proposal, in order to put this housing law at the end of the year or the first month of the following year in public treatment, so that a response to the legislation is then collected within two months. For that process, however, it is also my willingness, or I am aware that I must do so – meeting with the top-level owners. I can give you an exact answer after I meet them. The fact is, in the case of Atrium and similar cases, it is a presumptive crime. Of course, the new law will not be able to prevent criminal acts. We would like to write it in a way that will be prevented to the greatest extent possible, so that such events will also occur in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u179	Mr Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u180	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting; especially the Minister of the Environment! Dear Minister, my question concerns the issue of the implementation of the chimney service in the Republic of Slovenia. We both know that in the past there has been a lot of elevated dust on this subject, a lot of committee meetings in the National Assembly. Many of those who carry out this service in the Republic of Slovenia have had such or different interests, which sometimes seems right when it comes to quality, improvement of a service, in this case a chimney service. The new system for the implementation of the chimney service, respected minister, concerns me and also many citizens and citizens because it significantly increases the price of this service in the Republic of Slovenia. At the last 64th urgent meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment and Space, you also explained that this would not happen or that you would do anything to make this normal within certain borders. In the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 48/17 of 8. 9. 2017, these norms were strongly encouraged. I also have to say, if that's what this is, then it's a chopping-up. Let me mention that the price of the chimney clock has changed from 30.77 euros to 40.26; that is, 31%, regular cleaning of the smoke-water plant from 7.07 euros to 16.77 euros, which means 137% increase. Maybe some information that I'm wrong about is a fact; if we've turned the new system into a cellophane of higher chopping prices; then I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What are you going to do to keep these promotions from happening? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u181	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u182	Mr Podkoršek, honourable Member, thank you for the question. It is true that last week we had a broad debate on new legislation or a new way of delivering chimney services on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. From that debate, I understood that civil initiatives as well as former concessionaires still insist on their comments. I admit, I am very pleased that you specifically asked me about prices. This helps me to say more about prices and costs now. Thank you very much. This licensing system, which allows the owners of combustion plants to choose a chimney operator, has set the highest possible prices that a chimney might charge us. With the technical cooperation of the Faculty of Engineering in Maribor, new standards were also developed for each service provided by the chimney. In citing these incentives, I would just like to say this: these are the highest prices that can be charged in accordance with these regulations and a particular hourly item. However, if I go to individual cases now, and the amount for cleaning a small combustion plant up to 50 kilowatts, i.e. a chimney and a furnace on liquid fuels, can be up to €31.54; although this price has been €39.28 so far and this is a 20% discount. If I go on another occasion when we talk about the total value of the inspection for solid fuel combustion plants, this is now €23.67, so it is a single service; not as it has been so far when this individual service concerned three provisions of the previous legislation and these provisions have been combined. This is because it is not possible to compare prices such as the civil initiative; mainly because of the new standards of the Maribor Engineering Faculty, which were prepared and are part of this account. When I talk about a smoker, I'm not really an expert on chimney services, I have to admit, a chimney comes to us, cleans our oven and chimney, and puts out an account, and I'm learning about it now. Speaking of old rules, it was said: cleaning the chimney itself, cleaning the chimney spring and cleaning the chimney; and newly, it is a smoke-water device. And here, in fact, is the cost-reduction account. What I'm explaining here, we'll put it on the website tomorrow. Above all, I am trying to ensure that these calculations are prepared so that users can review them, because they are intended to do so. The fact is, after this debate in the National Assembly, I expected a few more responses from the field, but not from addressing anyone, but in fact there was no big response. However, whoever wrote to me admits that if the invoices that we will find in the review are issued in the wrong way, that they go beyond these values that I have now stated, the application for an appropriate inspection will be immediately submitted. In the following, I imagine there's something else I can explain to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u183	Mr Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u184	Dear Minister, thank you for your efforts and your answer. I know that many times you're not in an easy situation, the fact is that I didn't expect you to be an expert in smoking, I don't think that's necessary; I'm not. But I am concerned about something; I will try to make a calculation, if, of course, it goes in the same direction as I say, personally deliver it to you; for the sake of those who do not pay this service too much. This is where we're breaking up with our data. You're saying there'll be services downstairs. My claim is that they'll go up. Dear Minister, when we are no longer in these seats, if this new system, which has been adopted in the past, is in force, perhaps one of our citizens and citizens will report this service, but the fact is, and my doubts are growing, that we can turn the new system of the chimney service into a whole new, cutting-edge price. That's what I'm afraid of, but we both know that some people are having a hard time living, paying bills, waiting for an increase of about €5 for pensions. Professional firefighters recently had to face the government to fight for some euros. It doesn't seem right, so I repeat that we wrapped these clothes prices in a cellophane. But I'm going to make my own personal effort to get a document that confirms my claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u185	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you. In my opinion today, the Chamber of Commerce held a press conference where they spoke the other way around so that, under such conditions as we have written down, companies cannot operate. It is not my custom to wrap anything up in cellophane, and I, along with my professional services – and I will be happy if you help the Members – take care of the field. It is indeed necessary for each of our citizens, who will exceed their professional and financial capabilities, to act immediately. I am confident that the owners of the combustion plants will be subject to immediate inspection in such cases. The more we stand for this, the more clear the commitment that work, the exercise of this public service will benefit not only on the ground, but also in the implementation of fire safety; which is why we are actually taking these measures. However, my colleagues from the Ministry of the Environment would say that it is also the task of the Environment Minister to take care of the clean atmosphere; and this is also part of this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u187	Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalška.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Tomorrow is a festive event at the start of the construction of the factory Magna Nukleus in the municipality of Hoče-Slivnica. Tomorrow is a turning point for us who come from this area. Breaking the event because it's supposed to start a new, more positive period. Unfortunately, I have received a scenario of tomorrow's event today by accident, but we are not, as representatives of the Republic of Slovenia, the Members of this National Assembly. Many of us, especially with a colleague from the Party of Modern Centre, Mr Ivan Prelog, including all of you, including all of us, have begun to press this path when we passed this law on strategic investment. I therefore expect such documents to show respect for us, the elected representatives of the people, and respect for this institution. We represent people, we represent the Republic of Slovenia; that is why it is right and it is cultural that we are also members of the National Assembly on such lists and that there is an institution without which there would be no first step. As a sign of indignation at this, Minister-in-chief, I will not ask the question today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u189	Then let's move on. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matthew Vraničar Erman, who is excusedly absent; therefore, I also ask you whether you want an oral or written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the question. I am asking a question in connection with Article 68a of the Tax Procedure Act; this is an article which is constitutionally controversial. This has also been assessed by the Administrative Court and therefore I would also like to have a certain opinion of the Constitutional Court in this regard, or that the Constitutional Court should determine whether this article is in accordance with the Constitution or not. What's this all about? It's excessive, we can say very high taxation, that's 70% tax. In this regard, the question is whether there is too much taxation of so-called undeclared income. In particular in this connection, since under certain criteria, including the criteria of the Constitutional Court of Germany, it is intended to be the highest tax rate of 50 %. The second point is that, even on the basis of the opinions of the Financial Administration and so on, this article has been extended with regard to the limitation period. This limitation period now lasts 10 years. It was 5 years ago, which means that some of the debtors arrived at the time that the deadline was extended to them in the middle of the proceedings. For this reason, I am interested in the opinion of the Government or the opinion of the Ministry of Finance concerning this Article. Does he feel that this article should be amended? Not only in order to ensure full compliance with constitutional provisions, but also in relation to the so-called tax investigation, which is another problem. This tax investigation may, however, be carried out in such a way that the debtor does not know at all that this tax investigation is taking place. This is also a matter of extending the inspection procedure to 10 years. In this connection, it is assessed or assessed that the taxable person is not guaranteed the rights arising from the tax procedure and which form part of human rights. In this regard, I would like to request a written reply because the Minister is absent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u191	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to question the Secretary General of the Government of Mags. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary-General! In the spring, the Government and the National Assembly rejected the proposal for a law of the United Left to correct the decades-old mistakes of the previous Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. The mistakes and shortcomings that Slovenian politics has always been aware of promise to correct; but they are always ahead of elections. She's always running out of time. Let's be realistic. All Slovenian politics in reality wanes to make some of Slovenia's most discriminated-out national minority roughly equal to all the inhabitants of Slovenia. While the government has written on the proposal of the United Left that it understands; it understands many things and cannot change anything; but it will make its better law, which will be comprehensive. The preparation will involve the Roma community as well as experts, the arguments were rejected. I fear, however, that these efforts for a comprehensive approach are only a pose and that you have serious mental reservations in the government; that the essence of the political problem was to not solve the key problems of the Roma community in us in order to lose any elections if someone tries to seriously cut the vicious knots and the vicious cycle of exclusion and segregation of the Roma community. It's been a few months now, and I'm curious. I am aware that the government has set up an interdepartmental working group that is preparing proposals for amendments and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community. As I know, the working group has a deadline for completing its task in early November 2017; the STA reported on 21 September that it was not expected to complete its work until May of next year. Does this mean that this marriage proposal is actually working with a fig in a pocket by a time machine that makes it really impossible for this law to be passed before the elections? Is it true that the Government does not wish to provide interested parties with the first draft of the law on which the Interdepartmental Commission works, or that even after the request of the Information Commissioner, it simply does not remain silent? Is hiding changes to the law a way of non-inclusion of the Roma community and experts a transparent way of operating this government? How is that illegality, if true, do you comment? Serious criticism has been known practically since the adoption of the law. The changes are being prepared by the government for years, four years ago there was a public debate on the starting points. Has the government given any specific direction this time? I also want to know: What is involved in the adoption of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u193	Secretary General of the Government. Lilliana Kozlovich, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u194	Dear Member, Mr. Hanzek! I agree with you that this is an extremely difficult issue, which has actually warmed up in the past of the government, as you yourself said. In our government, we have no problem in solving this issue, but we are aware that this is an extremely difficult problem, because there is a great intercultural difference between the Roma community and the other communities; but there is no reason why the state and the local communities, as well as all those interested, would want to solve this problem. Let me say that, with this purpose in the government, we have institutionally placed the Office of the National Communities under the General Secretariat, so that we can achieve a greater inter-resortive link, so that we can better include others involved in this topic, namely, municipalities and all organisations, from the Council of the Roma Community, the Union and the Forum of Roma Communities. We are also working intensively to resolve these issues with the Ombudsman, who is also regularly informed of our actions. As far as the law is concerned, the government has provided for the adoption of the National Programme of Action first, with the participation of the municipalities and all Roma associations. This was a key document with which we want to achieve greater involvement of the Roma community operationally on the ground. What has been missing so far is that there is a need for evaluation, so it is not enough to just implement some measures, but it is also necessary to find out in the end what has actually happened. In addition, there is a great deal of emphasis in this programme on the living situation, as well as on increased employment, higher educational skills or higher education for Roma, as well as the preservation of their culture. With regard to the law itself, as you said, a working group was appointed to prepare a draft law by the beginning of November. The amendment of the law goes to a public debate in November. It foresees those changes that Roma communities, the Council of the Roma Community and other organisations have also indicated; and they have been involved in this. The organisation, which is already directly committed to cooperation under the law, is the Council of the Roma Community and has been directly involved. Last week, we had a meeting with all the associations of the Roma communities and the Council of the Roma Community and the Forum of Roma Councillors, which we also presented to them were the starting points of the law and invited them to comment when the public debate took place. It is not true that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of Mir Cerar, is warming this problem. Even more, we have set up a working group to address the living conditions; it is her job to identify the situation separately for each settlement and to prepare the necessary measures. Their task is to provide, in cooperation with the congregations, for any legal changes or other measures to be made. However, let me say that it is a very good example of cooperation with the local community, this is the Novo Mesto municipality, where we will also be able to show, as an example of good practice, and on Wednesday, a contract will be signed on the government to implement a project of infrastructure, municipal arrangements worth 3.5 million. An agreement has also been adopted to amend or adopt the UN and to draw up a timeline when this matter will actually be resolved. It's also about drinking water. According to our data, there are 23 settlements in Dolenjska, which already have drinking water, two settlements do not have; one is, but the inhabitants do not want to join this drinking water. We have a few more problems, but they are also being solved there, in Škocjan; most currently we see in Ribnica due to the lack of cooperation of the local community. However, together with this working group and with the municipalities, we want to find out what the real situation is, and on this basis also solve this problem. So much at this point, I'm at your disposal to supplement it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u195	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u196	With the Secretary-General or even the Government, I very much agree that this is a very complicated matter, solving all these problems that have arisen. But strangely enough, the government did so only in the spring, and it set up this interdepartmental commission almost three years after the government came into existence. And then that's the problem. Although I have now received the answer that a reliable law will be passed before or until the new elections. I still doubt it, as it is, but let's leave it for a few months when it's more accurate. It's mostly a problem analysis. Now to do an analysis of living conditions, three years late, I say there is no alternative. Above all, I find it problematic that, as I have read from these records, which I received by accident, this Interdepartmental Commission, what it says – the law is the law, we cannot make a moratorium. In at least two cases, the European Court of Human Rights has decided that in such cases where people, Roma, have lived for decades on a land where they have been left behind because they have been put there, it is necessary to work differently than the dead law says – the whole village must be demolished. Just imagine what it would be like for denationalized apartments if new owners came and threw away everything, the 20,000, 30,000 workers on the road. In the Roma, that can be done. Mostly that's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u197	Secretary General of the Government. Lilliana Kozlovich, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u198	Thank you. As far as marriage is concerned, we expect him to be in the National Assembly within a few months. Then I believe that the National Assembly will reach a consensus that this law will also be able to adopt fairly quickly, because in fact all the changes we anticipate are unanimous or proposals made by the Roma communities themselves; and the need for this change. As far as the living conditions are concerned, not at all. We do not want these settlements, as you say, simply no longer; but we want these settlements to be legalised. It may be a very good example of a project currently under way in Dolenjska, i.e. Žabjak-Bresje, where it is intended to be adopted by the UN, that this area is actually spatially regulated, that the country withdraws the land of the local community, and then further settles itself with the building right or some other property of the Roma who have real estate. The Construction Act, which will be adopted in October in the National Assembly or will be adopted in the second reading, provides for the legalisation of facilities older than 20 years of age; and here is a great opportunity. Of course, then, it is a question of those facilities that may not meet these conditions, and what to do there. As far as municipal equipment is concerned, so far 15 million have been given in the context of regional development. 73% were exhausted and around 20 municipalities allocated these funds to the Roma problem, I think it was around 11 million; and they settled this infrastructure to settlements. The situation must then be settled from the settlement to the specific house. I believe and hope that the Roma communities will also take responsibility for their property, that they will be aware that this is their property and that electricity generation is possible when the facility is safe. Because if we bring electricity to an object that's not safe, then we'll be responsible for the consequences that will come. As far as water is concerned, it is possible, we also foresee a temporary solution to put in sanitary boxes where water and sanitary facilities as well as one box for two families. It does seem a little late, but I think that only in such a legal way, with the cooperation of the Roma community, which will also assume its part of the obligation, will we undoubtedly resolve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u199	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I would be in this case because I was wrong; yet I must say that I am happy with these positive actions, your words. [[…]] But I'm not sure that's gonna count. I know he was very excited about Frog 15 years ago, but even one piece was arranged, but the country blocked the land, among other things, so I don't believe the state. At least 15 years of what I've been there, and there's still the same problem that you're about to solve right now. I don't know why the state couldn't solve this in 15 or more years. But it's just a transfer of land. Another thing, we have, say, the Municipality of Škocjan, where they formally did not draw a settlement that stands for 50 years because the Roma are there. Bulldozers can come by the law and run them all over because there is no one there anyway — no houses, no barracks, no people. These are the things I care about. The frog and these things are probably gonna work out nicely, but these are other things, and now I don't know. Another thing that bothers me very much here, even in these records, is the question of autonomy. This is one of the most crazy things we have in Slovenia, autonomy. If we call the indigenous national minority, it can't be an individual member of a minority autochthon and another neighbor of a non-autochton. Autochthonousness can be applied to the entire national minority, not to the one who is 50 years old. What about the one who's born now? But he's not. I hope that you will also resolve this in this law; although here, as I have seen, at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and at the Ministry of Social Affairs, I think that, administration or something like that, however, they very much oppose that this law would help to solve the problems faced by the Non-Authentiful Roma. This story is discrimination within discrimination. One person, one minority, to reward with a slightly better status than the other. I hope you'll be able to solve that, too. The Constitution does not speak of these things, of two Romani communities — autochthons and non-autochtons. However, I must say that about 20 years ago, Dimitrij Rupel, when he was still foreign minister, said, at the request of the Council of Europe, when they asked us when minorities were indigenous, when they lived for two generations. So, everyone's already here. So I would like to ask you to discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u201	I didn't think there'd be a claim in the end. Matjaž Hanžek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, Minister Koprivnikar! My question is in the context or in the spirit of adopting the state budget and at the same time the visible dissatisfaction of representatives of municipalities or local communities. They repeatedly point out that we are in a situation where the media are full of news about the end of the crisis, the rate of GDP growth in Slovenia is among the highest in Europe; on the other hand, the municipalities are subject to new legal obligations, and therefore higher costs are imposed on the municipalities and the funds are stagnating. The budget is certainly one of the most important, if not the most important, act adopted by the National Assembly. Usually, no one is completely satisfied with the budget. This time too, although many ministries, the exception is the Ministry of Labour, receive more resources in the 2018 budget than originally planned. The red thread of this budget is dissatisfied with the representatives of the Community of Communities, the Association of Municipalities and the Association of Municipal Communities. Colleagues and colleagues, all Members come from the congregations, regardless of our political colour. We come from congregations that must be successful, content, and progressive. Of course, the satisfaction of these municipalities results from the satisfaction of citizens, the satisfied users of the services provided by the municipalities; and, of course, in the final stage, also a successful whole country in the long run. The fact is that municipalities must share destiny, and this must also be pointed out at this point, in terms of the sustainability of public finances. This also requires a financial fiscal rule that we have adopted in this National Assembly. Dear Minister, I am interested in the framework of fiscal sustainability: What are the concrete measures that are or will be taken in the context of the burden on the congregations, the burden on the municipalities in general; as they carry out an ever-widening range of tasks, certain tasks are imposed on them and the burden is small or virtually nothing? Moreover, it is necessary to know that in the past there have been many municipalities and, I believe, there will be a generator of investment cycles in the future; even when the country is somewhat lagging behind at this point. I want to know: What is the state's role in thinking that municipalities will be able to relieve themselves of certain obligations and certain tasks; or to provide them with a slightly higher cake in the share of funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u203	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Messengers and Members! Thank you, Ambassador Prikl, for that question. First, let me say a little bit in general. Yes, congregations receive more tasks and tasks are increasingly complex, as is the state and all those facing an increasingly difficult business environment. The municipalities are functioning, and we find good in the strategy for the development of local self-government. The local self-government is working, and I am therefore also pleased with the indicators we have been facing recently, that the average is growing, that the financial situation of the municipalities is improving, that debt is falling, even though in times of crisis there was a gap between the municipal and state budgets, since the municipal budgets were not shrinking, nor were the number of employees; while on the state side much. And as you can rightly say, of course, we can also give in to these measures at a time when we are doing better. However, we always face the fact that the clear requirements of all parties — municipal, union, many others — are significantly greater than the actual capacity of a country, which is also limited by fiscal rules and other financial constraints. But we're more specific. With the Act on Public Finance Balance, we have reached out to 11 laws that have lasting positive effects on the functioning of municipalities. At that time, we, in agreement with the municipal associations, assessed that these effects were around €22.8 million. In addition, we have instructed the competent ministries to submit concrete solutions to reduce costs specifically for the functioning of municipalities to remove identified administrative barriers. I will briefly mention what we have done in this area. The whole process of lowering the costs of municipalities interferes with the field of legislation relating to municipalities. Here we have consistently participated in all negotiations and in the process with all three key municipal associations, where we have largely managed to reach consensus; of course, it is difficult to reach consensus in the very extent of funding, because it is difficult to expect a concrete consensus here in order to ensure public financial sustainability and the requirements of the municipality. However, we have also introduced a special tool in a single set of measures to improve the business environment, which we have to follow up on how administrative barriers and simplifications are being removed. We have specifically introduced a special part for the municipalities, where we monitor the effects of these measures on the municipalities. These solutions are even published online, so that citizens, mayors and everyone else can monitor what is actually going on at the end of these measures. In the Law on Local Self-Government, we have made it possible for the municipalities to establish municipal or inter-ethnic law, which represented a great cost for the municipalities. This was also one of the great demands of the congregations, although I think very few congregations then realized it, but the marriage option is open. Then we made it possible to prescribe a municipal tax on activities that specifically account for the use of public areas owned by the municipality; this was also one of the requirements that was submitted. Then it is very important that municipalities can submit their own land-book proposal in electronic form to avoid a notary fee of about 30 euros. In view of the number of these land-book proposals, this measure alone is worth around 2 million; at the same time, the possibility of free establishment of services between the State and the municipalities, which was also a major requirement and also represents a considerable savings. In the area of agricultural land, the real service for real estate owned by the Republic of Slovenia managed by the Economic Fund may be unpaid for the benefit of the municipalities, which was also a novelty in the legislation. The Education Act, which was a major problem with the impact of municipalities on payments, allowed municipalities to establish their own records of beneficiaries; and this, in conjunction with the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, also enabled them to participate in these proceedings. Then there are benefits in the field of public procurement, joint procurement, procedural repetitions, a single treasury account, the sharing of MFERAC and a number of other simplifications, including in the field of computer support to and operation of municipalities. These measures are very large and we are actively continuing in this direction in order to make rational business possible to the municipalities as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u205	Mr Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Minister, I welcome all these efforts, it is certainly not easy, it has certainly been a lot of energy invested by government representatives and, on the other hand, representatives of all three municipal organisations. The fact is that the minimum satisfaction on the part of the congregations has not yet been achieved. I believe you can get close to it. I want to, I do not want, of course, to demand that the dialogue continue, that all of you who will participate in this dialogue really do your best to reach at least that minimum common point where there will be at least a minimum of satisfaction on both sides. Regardless of which congregation we come from, we can be dissatisfied with our incompetent leadership in Maribor, talk about municipal administration, you can come, colleagues and colleagues, or citizens from any other congregation in which you are impressed with your leadership, your mayors, the common denominator, the common desire of all citizens coming from local backgrounds, but of course the congregation will be the one who will effectively carry out its duties for its citizens, for its citizens, whatever you want. And it is only in such a successful congregation that citizens can be satisfied and, of course, the country will benefit from it. I believe that there is no time for me to say anything about the Lands Act at this point in time, but I am sure that this is one of the key steps forward. And the government, which will succeed in the introduction of the Law on Provinces to make a breakthrough, will ensure not only its likeness but also its success, its undeniable long-term success. As I say, I would like you to speak to your negotiating team with representatives of the congregations, to continue your efforts to listen and to hear from you in these discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u207	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u208	Thank you, President. If I add further, dialogue, cooperation is not the last time I personally, if you want, a key political mission that I try to implement every day. Dialogue with the municipalities is also something we have committed ourselves to, and last but not least in the time of this government, an agreement with the municipalities that was not reached in years and years ago has been signed for a long time. We are also continuing this year's dialogue. It is on Wednesday that we are meeting again with the municipal associations, where we will also deal with the legal basis, where we are thoroughly coordinating each proposal from the municipal associations and trying to enforce it, if possible and there are no specific reservations. Of course, we also have a lot of problems because the views of the various congregations are, not least, very different from those of the various congregations. We have super-successful congregations and municipalities that are in great trouble, but not least, there are often diametrically opposed positions between the community associations, but we persist in dialogue and seek consensus, cooperation. We're not giving up on this. And if you have also mentioned the provinces, in this area of regionalisation of the country, we are primarily trying to determine what those original powers of the provinces are, because, in our firm belief, this is the reason why regionalisation has not yet taken place. There is no duplication of tasks between the country, the region and the congregation. In this way we will ensure that regional governance also works effectively, better than now, and this is the fastest way to regionalisation of Slovenia in such a way that it will really work effectively and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u209	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u210	Dear President! Dear Minister of Economy, I would like to ask you a question below, regarding the invitation to tender issued by your SPIRIT Agency, the Agency for the Promotion of Entrepreneurship, Internationalisation, Foreign Investment and Technology, in the Official Journal 29. 9. 2017, a call for public funding for the implementation of the comprehensive support services for potential entrepreneurs and businesses under the Slovenian Business Points for the period 2018 to 2022, reduced Spot of the Region 2018-2022. As Minister of the Economy, I would like you to make a brief comment on this invitation to tender. Some stakeholders concerned by this call, namely that SPIRIT, or at the end of the day, does not take into account the support environment already developed and functioning – a number of years also implements free e-V EM advice services – that in some ways this call, which introduces one spot of the region, one so-called Slovenian business point for the region, also introduces one part of the centralisation, which in some ways makes it difficult for all those who will serve these councils to come to a single point, and that it forces a new network of advisory points and, in particular, that the preparation of this call or the ministry or agency has not consulted stakeholders who already offer such advice at a given time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u211	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u212	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. The invitation to tender was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 29. 9. 2017, as you said. The subject of the invitation to tender is the financing of the provision of free services at 12 Slovenian business points (the spot of the region). At the same time, it has to be said that there were 36 of them before. The publication of the call or the establishment of Slovenian business points is linked to the implementation of the government strategic project 6.3 VEM for business operators. Regional spot points of the region will provide, in one place, free information, basic advice, training and workshops and the implementation of regional integration activities. The target group dedicated to spot services of the region, which are subject to funding following this call for proposals, are potential entrepreneurs and existing companies. The aim of the call for proposals is to increase information and knowledge to address the challenges on the business path in all stages of the entrepreneurship cycle and to increase early entrepreneurship, which will contribute to greater growth and development of businesses. The period of implementation of the activity shall be from 1. 1. 2018 to 31. 12. 2022, so five years. There are 13 million 875 thousand Euros for the entire five-year period. So far, these calls have been on a one-year level. The invitation to tender may be opened within 45 days of the publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall be open to 13. 11. 2017. The eligible costs are: salaries and reimbursements related to staff work, indirect costs in the form of a flat rate of up to 15% of eligible direct staff costs, external service costs. The invitation to tender Spot 2018-2022 constitutes an upgrade to the invitation to tender VEM 2016 and 2017. More important differences or emphasis are the following – and I also hope that I will partly answer here what was the question – we will only finance the services of the 12 spot regions, as a rule in the form of consortia. We want to encourage the integration of support environment entities that will join the consortium at regional level and thus achieve synergies of knowledge. The point is that these entities of the support environment are GZS, OZS, RRI and that these are well distributed, as you said, with their network across Slovenia. However, they are not as well qualified at all points. The activities will be carried out at the spot seat, i.e. in one place in the region, but of course it must also be said that there is no legal basis so that one of these can now be allocated directly, without invitation, to the network in the existing system. They may also apply themselves, but it must also be said that at least one of these organisations of the support environment, as long as it had a compulsory membership, was not interested in this matter, and after the loss of the right to compulsory membership or after the restructuring, the interest in this matter has definitely increased. In any case, we want to encourage all these organisations of the subterranean environment to organise themselves at the local level in a way that they can do their best as a consortium. In order to bring services closer to users, users will also be able to carry out part of the activities in the form of mobile councils with beneficiaries on the ground. Workshops, training and mobile counselling will be carried out in order to ensure the coverage of the region, we will also finance full employment of advisers, for whom education and training will also be prescribed. This will ensure a higher level of expertise for consultants and consequently higher quality of services for entrepreneurs. To finish in this first part. Support organisations will be able to apply for this call either alone or in a consortium. We think that they will be more successful if, given that they are scattered throughout the territory of Slovenia, they are able to find consensus and apply in the form of a consortium.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u213	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u214	Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your answers. I am partly satisfied, but I would still like to highlight some of the points here, so that you will then try to give me further answers. I knew, however, that some who are concerned that this call is not corrected in a given segment and that this call will – but for a period of four years, 2018-2022 – be more centralised. For example, I don't know, there are some conditions in the invitation to tender that all counselors should have an office at the spot seat when it is. This means that if one region, if we are talking about the Goran region, then we can say that it is likely that this spot region in Kranj and that entrepreneurs or those interested in this information will have to drive from Škofja Loka from Jesenic to Kranj. I want to know: Why is it mandatory for counselors to be seated on this spot? We could have it somewhere else. For example, a list of projects implemented jointly by consortium partners over the past two years is required and their value is at least two thousand euro net. The example of the Chamber of Commerce, the point e-VEM is free. And they have, I'd say, high-quality advisors, quality knowledge. In other areas, too. For example, you have in the tender that the region must have a showroom, a room of 30 square meters to present the region. A lot of these things, which seem to me to be somehow suggesting that this invitation is preferable to certain advisers, on the other hand, it seems to me that it is mainly moving away from the users of these services, because it is centralised and that it is difficult for some who urgently need this information in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u215	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u216	And some more information, I hope, is the answer to what you have just added. I would like to say that we are not creating a new parallel network, but we are connecting existing stakeholders, the OZS, the GZS, the RRI and others who will meet the conditions to achieve synergies of knowledge. Spots of the regions will provide a significantly larger range of services than the previously funded VEM points. The needs of users will be taken into account, and the specification of the regions will also be taken into account, as the spots can choose the range of individual activities to be carried out. It is also simplified to apply for the invitation to tender and to provide for reporting. The starting points of the project are as follows. In Slovenia there are already some parts of the VEM system, as you said, individual parts of the VEM system do not work in a coordinated manner and users do not recognize them as a whole, the non-cooperation of VEM entities, confusion due to the designation of VEM points. The tasks of individual parts of the VEM system are not clearly demarcated, so users do not have a clear picture of where and what free services they can expect. The stability of VEM entities and services, in particular the network of regional points, is not ensured. The strategic objective of the government project 6.3 VEM for business operators is: to connect individual parts of the system to a meaningful whole, to ensure the continuity and quality of services and the visibility of system support services, to delimit the tasks or services of individual parts of the system. The project, after all, this 6.3 VEM, consists of four levels. The national level represents SPIRIT Slovenia, the regional level of 12 regional points, the spots, the invitation to tender, what we have just said. The registration level is the spot points that carry out e-VEM procedures for businesses, a circus of 140 of these points is in the country at the administrative units, the exposures of Apes, in the chambers, it is said that we are covering this regional part of which you said we are centralising. And last, level four – portal, single online contact point, portal through which potential entrepreneurs and businesses can carry out e-VEM procedures themselves. Nevertheless, I think that this system is about upgrading the existing system, about greater connectivity, but of course this system requires at least some effort and coordination at the regional and also at the vertical level within all four levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u217	Mr Marko Ferluga, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and both the ministers and the team that remains! We will talk about the Regulation on Standards and Normative Social Security Services, more specifically Article 8 of this, which sets the standard of residence. It has always been so that single, double rooms were defined for adults and, of course, older and single, double and triple rooms for children and adolescents. In this specific provision, for example, older people are subject to very strict rules at home. I don't know if we agree, but I got that question directly from the field, and I think we need to see what we can get closer to the population somehow. The newly built homes aren't problematic, the ones that have been built in the last 10 years, because here somehow it's given to standards, I'll say, an advantage. In older homes, the tenants were also in three-bedroom rooms, and even now, when the new standards are in force, they refuse to move into single rooms. It is clear to all of us that even because of the standards and pensions that they are, they cannot possibly decide to do so, they are also afraid of this imposition, which has somehow been put aside now. But you know how old they are, they don't really want to have that. The standard double room also reflects, clearly, the level of care. And here's the question that somehow bothers everything the most. In practice, at least as I got the information, it was the reverse desire of the caregivers, rather they were in these larger three-bedrooms, but for various reasons, including social ones. But it is clear to us all that we all want a better standard, a higher standard. One thing is not going well with the other, it is clear that there is also a price. Therefore, I propose and ask you, Madam Minister, in cases of rooms for older than 65 years of age to check the possibility of allowing three-bed rooms, as is permitted for young people and children. So much for me. So I appeal to you to see if this rule could somehow fit in, to get closer to the socially disadvantaged, if I may say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u219	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u220	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. We're talking about a rule that's supposed to come into force in 2021. This rule has already been adopted, I think, more than 10 years ago and its implementation has been postponed several times. So, as a country, as a whole, we have decided that it is a suitable standard for the living of the elderly, for their quality of life, that they have the right to live in one or two rooms, and that those homes that have the capacity of three, four, five and six rooms are gradually reshaping. Therefore, the validity of this Regulation covered a longer period of time. As you said, most new homes, newly built, especially concessionaires, have already been built so that it is only one- and two-bedroom as standard. Most of the homes for the elderly, including the public welfare, are now implementing through the means they have, the adaptation of existing rooms, and some are also upgrading to replace those spaces that are reduced from six- to two-bedrooms and cannot solve everything in this way. We do know, however, that the ageing of the population in this area will make a great need. I have a very principled opinion on this. I wouldn't mix quality with social. And in fact, to agree to the standard for the elderly to stay in three-, four-, five- or six-bed rooms because they cannot afford it – because you need to be aware that we need to set a certain standard as a country, and it is already in the system for those who cannot pay their pension to do so by his family or country or congregation. So, here we wouldn't go too far in this sense and compare the elderly with the minors, because if you imagine, we probably share the view that you wouldn't be living in a three-, four- or five-bedroom with others. However, the fact is that when long-term care is in place, there will be a need to review the network of existing homes and also to look into the establishment of a network of nursing hospitals, what will be done in this area. Because the fact is that in a nursing hospital someone who is not mobile may need one standard, while someone who is moving, who has a need for specific — he needs to be given some privacy in the room. However, by 2021 these standards would be appropriate. But I realize that, of course, one thing is supposed to happen, and the other is what can be expected in reality. Even when I'm on the ground, my homes tell me, for example in Nova Gorica is such a built home that adaptation itself is not possible in this direction to ensure this. In such cases, when it is not actually possible to do so, the solution of such problems will, of course, be determined and agreed with the management of the home, but would not now agree to allow us to keep three-, four- and multi-bedrooms in the system. So we are going in the direction that homes must provide a standard as a single- and double-bed room, while with those homes that will still have a problem and will not be able to solve this problem, let us agree on the exact plan of this and what this means, including in relation to nursing hospitals. That's the answer I can give right now. But it is about home with We before the important question of how, in what way, these homes that were built in the 1970s and 1980s will be adapted. [[…]] Most have at least partially adapted, and some are not in a satisfactory, construction-based way, while all of them can be comparable to any Austrian or German home. And it will require a decision, including a country that owns these homes, or we will invest. Our investment – I think the IMF has €4 million in investment for 2018. For all the investments we cover in our field. Then you can imagine what the real needs are in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u221	Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u222	Thank you. I agree with you, Minister, and I support this thinking that leads to the standard being raised. I don't think Desus will mind either, like a lot of people do, for these things. And yes, indeed, it is necessary to look somehow at the fact that the elderly will also have, I will say, a nice autumn and that, clearly, from this also on our side, it will also be said to us in Parliament and with the help of the Government, somehow the standard will grow. However, this transition, as you have already said, is likely — and what you have said will also be nursing homes and then those day centers and that — one of these elements that will somehow mitigate these matters. So I absolutely agree with you, but for this transitional period, when you said that you should not interfere with all these standards, you might have to look at a little in reality how this could somehow be burdened. Clearly, though, there is also some responsibility on relatives and others to care for their own in order to have a pleasant autumn of their lives. I absolutely agree with you that it is necessary to look at that we have, yes, a better standard, not a lower standard, but, as far as we have probably both been walking around and seen, we still need to have this real life ahead of us to see where we can get closer and where we can get to. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u223	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u224	Thank you. I can only agree on that. I've already ordered the Ministry to review all the homes, what's going on, what's going on, and to make some comprehensive assessment. Because we know at this point that some public welfare institutions are unlikely to be able to guarantee these standards by 2021. It is also important to ask whether there is a possibility that we can do something to help them, because we are the owner and founder of these homes. In fact, it would be ideal for public welfare institutions to ensure that they can meet this standard. But I would not say right now that I agree that nothing is going to happen and that we should postpone the implementation of these standards for the next decade, because I think that would be a setback. However, sufficient manoeuvre should be found to ensure that certain groups, which are not related to the material situation, but mainly to the health assessment, are able to stay in several rooms, which is close to a care concept. There is, therefore, a need to find a professional response here, especially with the health department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u225	Mr Marjan Dolinšek, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, and Minister of the Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, and I would like to remind you that Dr. Peter Gasperšič is justifiably absent, so please also identify whether you want an oral or written reply from him below.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u226	Thank you, President. Nice hello to you all! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! First of all, I would like to refer to the reply of Minister Gasperšič, if he can answer me in writing. My question will relate to the construction of an energy plant on the Central Sava. As we know, in the world as well as in Slovenia, the need for electricity is constantly growing. The lack of electricity produced is due to the high growth of consumption on the one hand and the under-availability of production capacity on the other. Slovenia's entry into the European market and electricity market has also become mandatory for Slovenia to meet certain criteria or requirements for the share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. We know the problem of greenhouse gas reductions. My question goes this way: in the Saturday Annex of Work is 9. 9. 2017 HSE Director-General Matjaž Marovt made the following statements. He stated that HSE will be able to reinvest in 2022. I'm asking you: Does this mean that by then the construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Sava will not have taken place? In the same interview, he also said that he would invest in hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava only if the project was economically justified. I want to know: Is there an assessment of this economic eligibility? And if there is, I'm asking you to give it to us. Can you present to us a future plan for construction, sources of funding, namely height and dynamics, relations with the partner of Gen Energy or its part of funding? Since HSE has been awarded a concession for the construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Savi, I ask you for information: When is HSE and the Government, or the distinguished Minister of Environment and Space, your ministry, which is responsible for placing concession contracts in the premises, supposed to sign them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u227	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Good greetings also to the Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, thank you for the question. On this issue, I would like to say – that I can be better understood – especially that energy is substantively within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure. The Minister has not authorized me to give an answer, so I will limit myself to the questions raised by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Perhaps it would have started by not receiving a concession for the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava, and this is usually nothing special for us, a regulation on the concession for the use of water for the production of electricity on the part of the water body of the Sava River from Ježica to Suhadolego, namely, this regulation was adopted by the Government in 2005. This Regulation also states that the concession contract must be signed between the concessionaire and the concessionaire. This contract has not been signed yet. Mr Dolinšek, you have also participated in a group in 2015 that has dealt very much with this issue, and I think you have had at least 10 meetings. The conclusion or success of these arrangements has, unfortunately, not been achieved. That is how we resumed these arrangements or talks this year. There have been quite a few meetings, unfortunately the very contract that talks about the implementation of this concession is not written in such a way that at least the Ministry of Environment and Space will sign it. Arrangements are still under way. However, I can say, as you have already stated, placing in the investment area of the investor's initiative, which is HSE, and this is the procedure that we are conducting in our ministry, so I have also attended at least 2 meetings with former HSE Director, Mr Scubin. I confess that I cannot remember whether you were present or whether other Members were present. At that time, in those interviews, we plotted how to put the road through Zasavje when accepting the DN for the construction of hydropower plants. I am sure that these procedures will also be concluded in accordance with the arrangements or will be provided. I can respond to this economically justified project on my own, so that we do not have such a project or a task at our ministry. The Minister of Infrastructure will say more. However, I agree with exactly what you have said, that this is a common interest, including the interest of the Ministry of Environment and Space, in the spirit of reducing climate change, to take care of renewable energy sources, which is certainly the construction of hydropower plants. That this, I would say, attention to such a source of energy is not only principled, but also shows that the Ministry of the Environment and Space, where investments are currently being made, is also funding part of the investment from the Climate Fund, as this is permissible, it is possible, as well as part of an investment where the anti-floating security of the surrounding areas is ensured. We provide from the Water Fund and we provide the rest of the missing part of the investment through integrated budget resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u229	Mr Marjan Dolinšek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u230	Thank you. Dear Minister, this story has been going on for 12 years. Twelve years. Your conclusion was on the ground, in December 2005, a decision was issued by the Government granting HSE the concession. However, the treaty has not yet been signed, which means, normally, that it has been a long time. We must also remember something that the previous government adopted a decision on the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, which was in August 2013 for the Suhadol, Trbovlje and Renke hydropower plants. The first package to start preparing. And it was agreed that this would be dealt with as a priority, which means, to your ministry I hope that you do not tear all the conclusions of the previous governments into a basket, because that is not how you can do it. And the past – it began to run for the fourth year, yes, it is, at many meetings I was there, but nothing helps to yawn, beg, and here and there. Hydropower plants, in line with the strategy and with our plans, are quite clear when the concession contract will be signed. Efforts must be made, normally, on both sides, but it is the country which must provide and also comply with European directives. We're committed, we're paying the fines. What kind of person will be responsible when we receive a fine from Europe? Since we will not provide 25% of renewable resources by 2020, we are already running late. Twelve years we've been pulling this project together. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u231	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u232	Thank you. When placed in the premises, the investor shall be the one preparing the relevant documentation for the conduct of the procedure of the State spatial plan. We are not preparing these documents at the Ministry of Environment and Space. If I give a second track to compare, then for the second track, all the documentation required for the preparation was prepared and then prepared for the completion of the State Spatial Act in the area which is responsible for this infrastructure. So I understand, Mr Dolinšek, that you have the idea that it is all the fault of the ILO, we are responsible for conducting the procedure in place. However, as regards the regulation on water concession for electricity production, as you said, the contract is bilateral and, of course, it is necessary to do what no one has done in 12 years. If we succeed now, it will be a great success. Arrangements are under way, but there are several milestones mainly in the water concession, which does not mean a construction concession at the same time. And in this part is actually the biggest gap between the candidate and us at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u233	Mr Marjan Dolinšek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u234	Thank you. Minister, yes, it is, but we are now at the point where we need to sign the concession contract. It can't be the Ministry of Infrastructure. Now it's your turn. We must not forget anything else, we sent the National Reform Programme as part of Juncker's plan in April 2015. We put it in there. Are we having a little fun?Oh, my God! What do we say?Oh, my God! So, did we write a little something? We also have in the coalition contract that we will continue, now that we have only poured out on paper, I will not repeat it again, the previous government has taken a decision and imposed on the Ministry of Environment and Space to initiate the DN procedures for these three hydropower plants. The commitment by 2020, 25% from renewable sources. Who will be responsible for the payment of the penalty? The penalties will, of course, be paid by the State, according to taxpayers. And I don't know, I can't understand, the fourth year started to run, but of course, not half a year, more than half a year, so I won't say one year, nothing happened. Whether someone had no interest or not, the country is responsible, not HSE. [[…]] The state is responsible. Resorient Ministry, both infrastructure and yours, because now I am telling you again, you are now on the verge of signing a concession contract, which is the task of the ILO. [[…]] I don't think there's any more time to swindle. Responsibility is required for citizens, citizens and, above all, Zasavje. Especially to Zasavje! We've been lying for 12 years. Twelve years. Let's say it loud and clear. I think that we can manage these efforts and that these efforts will be made shortly to reach this final signing of the concession contract and then to take further steps. I won't ask. I will not ask for a debate, but I expect this to happen by October 30th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u235	I think I will take your case as a request for a decision on the proposal to discuss the answer, although part of the answer will only be received in writing from the other side. So your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask Minister of Culture Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Madam President. My question is related to the most complex takeover in the Slovenian media area in the last 20 years or more, as Adem Skender, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, unlawfully allowed the media megaprejet for the dizzy 230 million euros. Luxembourg Slovenia Broadband, which is owned by the US media conglomerate United Group, received from your ministry a green light for the acquisition of Pro Plus, the leading media house, which owns 100% of the TV programmes POP TV, Channel A, BRIO, OTO and KINO, as well as the most visited website, 24 hours. Since the same company is also the owner of the second largest telecommunications service provider, Telemacha, it is in fact the merger of Telemach and Pro Plusa, which is clearly contrary to the provisions of the Media Act which discuss the incompatibilities of telecommunications and radio and television activities. The law provides that the operator providing telecommunications services, in this case Telemach, cannot also be a broadcaster of radio and television programmes and must not disseminate software or advertising content. In the case described, it is a clear merger between the second largest cable operator, Telemach, and the TV house, which controls 75% of the market and reaches 48% of the audience. As a result of this, in my opinion, the illegal takeover will be the emergence of the most influential economic society in the country and also the creation of a monopoly on the Slovenian media scene. As was understood from various media, you have estimated at the Ministry that Slovenia Broadband does not need consent, and you have done so, despite the fact that the law clearly states who are connected persons, where it is unequivocal that Pro Plus, POP TV and Channel A belong to connected persons. With this, you have allowed the foreign giant to skip all obstacles to national law and not do your job by law, which is to protect the public interest. I therefore ask you in this regard: How is it possible that you have allowed such a law-barred conflict at the Ministry, even though you are legally competent to grant consent to such acquisitions? I ask you to provide very precise explanations and answers on this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u237	Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Peršak, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u238	First of all, thank you for the question, which allows us to clarify some things and to read the law more accurately in the future. Let me say that the so-called Luxembourg company did not receive the green light from the Ministry of Culture, but the Ministry has found that it is not competent to decide on this matter. The first paragraph of Article 61 of the Media Act provides that an operator performing telecommunications services provided for in Article 111 of this Law or in a law governing telecommunications shall not also be a broadcaster of a radio or television programme and shall not distribute programme or advertising content unless he obtains permission to carry out radio or television activities referred to in Article 105 of this Act. Failure to comply with this prohibition constitutes an offence punishable by appropriate fines and so on, punishable by an offence by a legal person or an independent entrepreneur, an individual who is an operator and issues such or another programme. Any violation of this legal provision or of the prohibition referred to in Article 61 of the Media Act shall be established in an inspection procedure for which, in a particular case, pursuant to Article 108 of the Law in conjunction with Article 21 of the Law on State Administration, the Cultural and Media Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible. Such control could not yet be carried out in the specific case, since according to the Apes data, Pro Plus’s ownership of the company has not been taken over at all. It must also be decided first by the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to comply with the rules of concentration. In view of the above, the Ministry is not yet able to determine in advance the possible infringement of Article 61 of the Media Act in a case the actual situation of which has not yet taken place. If there is a suspicion of a violation of the Media Law in connection with the said acquisition, the competent inspectorate will certainly take appropriate action. With regard to the prohibition under Article 61 of the Media Act, we explain in detail that the legal provision expressly prohibits only an instance where the operator would also be a broadcaster or a television broadcaster. This provision does not refer to the prohibition of ownership of an operator or issuer, since it is not, as it is said, in the law and in this Article, a word. It also follows from the provisions of Article 137 of the Media Act that the offence is that an operator performing telecommunications services issues a radio or television programme without permission to carry out television or radio activities. Thus, the criminal provision does not refer to a prohibition at the level of ownership over one and the other. The prohibition applies only to the simultaneous exercise of two incompatible activities by the same undertaking. The definition of an operator is given in Article 118 of the law, and I will not read it because it will run out of time. The definition makes it perfectly clear what the operator is doing, this is Telemach in this case. However, in accordance with Article 9 of the Media Act, the media publisher shall be a legal or natural person who carries out the dissemination of programming content in accordance with this Act. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Law, a company which fulfils the following conditions may be established and entered in a register for the dissemination of programme content in the Republic of Slovenia, and so on: it has its registered office in the Republic of Slovenia or its permanent residence in the case of a natural person. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 12, the issuer must notify the media to the Ministry of Culture before the start of the operation. It follows from the official record that Telemach is an operator which is not a publisher of any media and that it is a publisher of POP TV and Channel A which are not operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u239	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u240	Dear Minister, thank you for reading my marriage, and we have read it, and unfortunately, your argument is that understanding this law is really strange. What, though, is the property of another activity? Pro Plus is a 100% owner of both POP TV and Channel A, and that is a fact. I am not a lawyer myself, you know this very well, neither are you, but I understand some of the provisions of the Media Act very well and allow me to explain to you, as an opposition member, what the law requires your ministry to respect. In short, the Media Limitation Act makes it clear that anyone wishing to buy a 20% stake in POP TV d.o.o. must obtain the consent of the Ministry of Culture. However, the fourth paragraph of Article 58 provides that the shares of the parent and subsidiary companies shall also be included in this share. In our case the controlling company Pro Plus is the 100% owner of POP TV and in this case the POP TV depends on the company. And more! The law provides that the Ministry of Consent may refuse a person who, by acquiring an ownership stake alone or jointly after connected persons, would have a dominant position on the advertising market. In short, the company that already owns the second largest cable operator and wants to take over the most influential media house in the country has an unequivocally dominant position. So once again, I ask: How will you justify this illegal monopolisation of the Slovenian media market before the public? Are you aware that at the Ministry, either because of incompetence or because of corruption, you helped create a new media empire? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u241	Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Peršak, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u242	Thank you. Probably not all articles can be read in such a way that the provisions of one article are passed on to another article and we say when it suits us that one article should be applied, but not when it does not. Here were the provisions set out in several articles, but we could issue a consensus or disagreement only in one case. When it comes to becoming an operator, the company also becomes a issuer. In this case this will not happen, because Telemach will continue to engage in his activities because he is a human resources operator and the publisher is POP TV. Not even Pro Plus, which is a company that owns POP TV, but will now join this chain of third companies. We can agree, and I also agree that if this business is realised, there will be a very big impact on the Slovenian media market at the level of television, but the AVK, not the Ministry of Culture, is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u243	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u244	I simply do not believe in the Minister that he believes in his overly loose interpretation of the legal provisions made to him by corrupt officials. One plus one is two. Telemach and POP TV are equal to the United Group. I mean, it's a shortcut, it's clear, and that's also confirmed by lawyers that the decision of the Ministry of Culture is incorrect. [[…]] The consequences of the Ministry of Culture's irresponsible behaviour in the event of the United Group's media acquisition will be enormous and fatal for the Slovenian media market. Monopolisation and the full management of this market will result in major and irreversible changes that will have negative consequences for independent, quality journalism, quality and price of services. Above all, this will mean the kick-out of all other players in the media market, including the state of Telecom. But it's not an innocent matter. Let me remind you that the owner of the United Group is the American fund led by the former director of the CIA and the commander of the coalition forces in Iraq and Afghanistan and a member of the pronatov brain trust Atlantic Council General David Petraeus. It is in Serbia that it has achieved a change in media legislation, which allows cable operators to also be broadcasters. He also visited Mira Cerar, Boris Koprivnik and Matejo Vraničar Erman in May this year, and only two months later, the Fund was owned by the United Group and became the largest media player in the Balkans. I propose that Ergo hold a general debate on the circumstances and backgrounds and on the non-compliance of legislation in this area, as foreign companies associated with the U.S. military and secret services are given control of telecommunications services and media content. You can see on WikiLeaks how American intelligence services via Google and Facebook control the personal communications of most Westerners, and of course they are now being moved east. The Slovenian telecommunications media market is operationally controlled by a businessman who, through the financial octopus of companies in tax havens, hides taxes in their home countries, taking on the largest global financial fund that gives him immunity through his access to the top of politics. These matters should disturb market regulators, intelligence and financial administration, as these are strategic matters of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u245	Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 October 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and the Minister and to the other workers in the National Assembly! Minister, the question concerns the editing of Jerne's channel in Seča. We're both aware of how things are going there. It is always so that the municipality, I will say, endure and refer to the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment back to the municipality, so that this Gordy knot has also been cut off and imposed on your Ministry by the Court of Auditors to somehow try to recover. We both know that it's unacceptable in an environment like this and a tourist pearl like this that we have, like Sečovlje salts, that things don't go as well as they should. One step further, the congregation made with its decree, which left the ships and boats half dry and half outside, somehow trying to arrange, remaining those piers that were made, as it seemed to each individual. Many Ljubljanans took this part of the channel as their own private parking lot. My question is: How do you see the planning of this channel to be exemplary, to be able to market at the same time, and to be regulated according to all the natural and other necessary parameters and to set an example for future generations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u248	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Primož Hainz, honourable Member Marko Ferruga, honourable Member, Mr Dolinšek, welcome! We're closing the session, and there's really not many of us. But if we're talking about Jerne's channel, there's a lot to do. And I would start by saying that Municipality Piran was the holder of the partial water permit which expired at the end of 2015. At the time of the holding of the partial water permit, the municipality did not do what was supposed to be done, so at the RS Directive for water under official responsibility we introduced a procedure for the cessation of the water permit. In the framework of the audit that you mentioned, Mr Ferluga, we also have two things to do, namely to call on the owners of every ship on land, especially on land owned by the Republic of Slovenia, and to remove the vessels, but also for vessels that are either sunk or damaged in the Jernei Canal itself. For our work, the Land Ships' Environmental and Nature Inspection was competent in respect of land, and in 2016, the shipping of those vessels actually in such a state as to be considered a waste was therefore no more than vessels capable of navigation at sea. Thus, Soline, d. o. o., carried out these exports, and since the debtor carried out the decision, the inspection procedure was then terminated. So, waste, if we say so, is no longer in the Jerne channel area. The Environmental and Nature Inspectorate of the International Inspectorate and the Board of the Municipality of Piran and the Municipality of Ankara sent or intervened in the month of November last year a competent resolution of the case concerning parked trailers and vessels on the public surfaces of the Jerneje Canal coastal land. The municipal officials ordered the transport, and it was already carried out. So something's moved. Now we want to remove the sunken, floating or partially floating vessels in the canal of Jerney himself. This transport is regulated by those owners who are still alive by records and can be called upon to remove these vessels. However, there are difficulties with this set of owners or with the record, since it is not the obligation of the vessel owner to modify or report any change to the owner of such a vessel at any time, so that the work in this area is likely to be the most difficult or difficult to carry out. We will also try to talk to these owners by public publication and then the appropriate vessels, for which the owners will not do anything themselves, remove, probably at the expense of the Slovenian Directorate for Water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Mr. Dolinshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u250	Thank you. One last question. Dear Minister, on September 19th of this year I was delighted to read your statement and was surprised about the financing of the infrastructure of the Mokrice hydropower plant and the medium-savite hydro power plants, that it is not under any question. Now I want to know: Are there, and if there are, can you explain or present to me the amount of annual inflows to the water and climate fund and the commitments made so far to finance the projects under these two funds? From what, when and at what amount will the infrastructure for the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant be financed? What is the dynamics and level of funding of the infrastructure for hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u252	Dear Member, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek! The revenue of the Climate Change Fund is inflows from the sale of emission vouchers at European auctions, the price of emission vouchers varies, not always the same, so accurate forecasting of the revenue of the Climate Change Fund is impossible. This is known to us, but it is an estimated EUR 16 million will be in this fund next year. The water fund is used to finance Oziroma, you are interested in revenue, I apologize. [[…]] From the sale of water and coastal land to which the status of natural water public goods has ceased, the funds are then compensated in this context for the establishment of real service or building rights in accordance with the Water and Water Rights and Water Refunds Act. This is also part of the concessions. The revenue estimates for 2017 and for the following years are around €42 million. If I have understood the question correctly and we are talking about lower-level power plants, the construction of power plants on the lower Sava is supported by a law on the construction of these hydropower plants, and the law itself provides for the provision of funds from the climate fund and from the water fund and, of course, the integral resources of the budget for the construction of hydropower plants. Thus, Mokrice is prepared for such an investment structure, which the Government has confirmed. The cost of building the accumulation itself is around 74 million, the precise allocations, as foreseen by the Water Fund, if I round up, are just over 20 million and from the Climate Change Fund about 15 million, and the integral resources are also projected 20 million and the other resources are completing this investment for the Mokrice. I apologize if any number is not completely correct, then we can complete this information in writing. For investments in the construction of hydroelectric power plants or accumulators in the Central Sava, no law has been adopted to talk about it, no investment is envisaged, as was the case with the lower Sava, so I cannot answer this part of the question. I hope you won't be too hard on me, Mr Dolinšek, because now we're coming back to that thing I said before. On these issues, in some way, the powers of the two ministries are either overlapped or touched, and I do not find an appropriate question, but, as I said before, energy is within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Environment and Space, probably by some logic, because sometimes energy was part of this ministry, this part has been preserved, i.e. the construction of the accumulation dams, although it is still necessary to say that the construction of the accumulators is in many cases also partly to ensure anti-float security. And in this part, after amending the Water Act, of course, the appropriate funding from the Water Fund is, which means, if I make it easy, that even for the medium Sava these two sources plus the integral source will certainly be provided for the construction of the accumulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u254	Thank you. I understand, Minister, that you can't go to a hydro power plant in Central Savi, especially for this three, first three, to give the data, but there are numbers and also conversations, deals that were countless. They were. As far as I am aware, we are talking about infrastructure work when we are talking about all these three in the first phase of the suction hydroelectric power plant, we are talking about some amount that has been going on around €72 million for several years. Which means what you said, it's called regulating flood measures, dams, or whatever it takes. We are not talking about any road here, because the road, in particular, was already this year’s – the one that was a long-standing conflict, says Hrastnik–Zidani Bridge – exempted and not attached to any part of the construction of hydroelectric power plants, but will be its infrastructure project on the Infrastructure Directorate. So if we come from this, this means that a good EUR 7 million per year by the State should be provided for this part, which means and not immediately, but only in the next three to four years, because we know when these effects occur. [[…]] This also has no impact on balance or the state budget, which we also normally have to worry about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u256	I admit I can't comment on Mr. Dolinsky here. 7 million a year – I don't have that number. However, it is certainly true that the changes to the existing infrastructure relating to both railways and roads should be taken over by the Ministry of Infrastructure, if we are now talking about this number, then this is a matter of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I do not hope to comment on that. For the construction of the accumulation itself, a concession was granted for 10 hydropower plants, so that water rights or this contract will probably take over all these hydropower plants. Here I admit that I did not understand the question the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-16-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Good. We have also completed our second round of questions. I thank the ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 17 October, when the National Assembly votes on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 34th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice evening.
