ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today: Dr. Mirjam Bon Klinšček, Violeta Tomić by 2 p.m., Mrs. Ljudmila Novak, Mrs. Marija Bachič from 12 p.m. to 12 p.m., Mrs. Eva Irgl, Mrs. Janja Sluga, Mrs. Vesna Vervega from 11 p.m. to 11 p.m., Mrs. Andreja Potočnik, mag. Tanja Zink, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Miha Kordiš from 3 p.m. on, Dr. Franc Trček, Dr László Göncz, Mr Primož Hainz, Mr Franz Breznik, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Marjan Pojbič, Mr Ivan Škodnik, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Roberto Batteli, Mr Saša Tabaković until 11 a.m. and Mr Jan Mahnic from 11 a.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. AND 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts under the ordinary procedure, and a bill on amendments and additions to the Act on Public Prosecutions within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. At its 43rd meeting, on 29 September 2017, the draft law considered the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. Since, after the discussion, the Committee did not adopt the articles of both laws, the second reading of the draft law at the working body meeting was completed. I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on both draft laws. The text shall be given by the Members of the Parliament of the unaffiliated Members, for her by Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u2	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The draft laws that we have discussed bring about changes that are urgently needed in the judiciary and in the prosecution for a nasty financial crime. Access to financial crime is tripartite: first-level police, prosecution and courts - criminal law approach, second-level financial approach, financial institutions, liability and third-level civil society, investigative journalism and political responsibility. All three, indemnity, political and criminal responsibility, must be taken into account. Here we only deal with this first level if I focus first on the judiciary. Statistics and trends that show what is going on in court: fewer cases received, interesting, even fewer cases solved and the time of solutions extended; fewer confirmed cases in higher courts, indicating that the quality of the trial has fallen; problems of an arbitral decision brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court; failures at the second stage; and a system of education and training where financial crime has been denied. Two problems: who teaches what he teaches, and another problem — judges who teach; where they teach and who they teach. The judiciary will only have to act in this relationship without citing external pressures, with internal reserves to be used and rewarded by those who exploit the internal reserves. What is expected of the judges? To enhance their reputation by their actions and decisions. Old samples should be avoided and the final transition expected at the time of the transition to the new social system should be completed. What's with the D.A.'s office? The D.A. is leading and directing the pre-trial procedure. Does he have knowledge of financial crime? In colleges these skills are not sufficiently acquired, so further education and training is needed. How much effort is being put into this? The issues are complex, cooperation with financial institutions and what we are reminded of by the European institutions, specialised and joint investigation teams. There is money in the European Union for this and we do not draw enough money. Financial crime has international elements, and that is why this needs to be exploited. Change the concept of tracking money flows – this requires knowledge and requires cooperation. What's the most important thing about the D.A.? To introduce a transparent career system, to measure the prosecutor's success and thus reward his career and not to go after how many people have been shut down, but how much money has been made, seized and returned to the system. If I suspect; the problems of the judiciary and the prosecution – the problem will have to be solved on its own. It is up to us to warn them of this and, if necessary, to help them. It is necessary to change the doctrine; from the doctrine of penal populism that it is only important how many people we close, to follow the doctrine during the money and to pay the money back to the state. This is about not only being a reactive policy, but predicting a policy for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u3	The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the proposed amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the members of the Committee on Justice voted already on a working body where the proposals did not receive sufficient support. Despite the proposal's well-intentioned objective, we believe in the Modern Centre Party that the proposed solutions are subordinated, but also inadequate, in order to achieve the desired purpose. We have already taken note of almost identical content at the meeting of the National Assembly, where it has been decided that the draft law is not suitable for further consideration. The main purpose of the proposed amendment to the Law on Courts is to be achieved within the existing system. Of course, certain fundamental shortcomings can also be addressed in further proposals for reform of the judicial network. With regard to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which already allows for the establishment of departments if, in its assessment, the President of the individual Prosecutor's Office finds that this department could provide for more effective prosecution and more uniform treatment. Thus, the Public Prosecutor's Office can organise departments for specialisation, better efficiency or concerted action in particular areas, which is why this possibility already exists. This is the autonomous jurisdiction and judgement of the head of the individual department of the Prosecutor's Office. Following the proposals mentioned in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre of Proposals, we will not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u5	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u6	Good morning! How many of us there are! We have before us proposals for amendments to the laws of New Slovenia in the field of justice, namely the amendment of the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Unfortunately, however, we will only be able to present our views on the proposals, because the vote or decision of the coalition on the committee responsible today makes the debate on the proposed solutions impossible. Thus, in the SDS Group, we regret that, on the Committee on Justice, the parties to the coalition, despite having voted in the first reading of the law that it is appropriate, have now completely turned the table and have rejected the law in the Committee's re-decision. We are also surprised in the Slovenian Democratic Party that something similar to yesterday's vote was done by Nova Slovenija, who first voted against the controversial amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and, after a red card by the Council of State, turned the board and voted even for the above-mentioned controversial novel. Nevertheless, in the SDS, we are pleased that Klemenčič's law on criminal proceedings has ended its path because of insufficient support from other members of the National Assembly, i.e. the coalition. In the SDS Group, we believe that the effective and fair functioning of justice is an important postulate of the country's democratic action. Unfortunately, we still have a system in Slovenia, which corresponds to the Klemenčič-led coalition. We have also repeatedly proposed solutions in our parliamentary group to ensure a successful prosecution of banking crime, because it is undeniably among the most demanding forms of crime and has caused billions of damage to the Slovenian banking system or to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. All of this has cost Slovenian citizens more than €5 billion, but unfortunately no one has ever responded. Interestingly, both laws were rejected by Minister Klemenčič and the parties to the coalition, despite the fact that the issue of the organisation of courts and the efficiency of the detection and prosecution of banking crime was also raised by competent authorities when the Slovenian Democratic Party highlighted the issue in the National Assembly. It should also be pointed out that, on a proposal from the National Assembly, the findings and conclusions of the Investigative Commission for the Identification of Responsibility in the Banking System, led by my fellow Member, Dr Ange Logar, have decided unanimously a year ago to call on the competent authorities to prepare everything necessary for the establishment of a court for the prosecution of financial or banking crime. And what has been done to this day? All proposals for amendments to the laws and recommendations made by the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as today by Nova Slovenija, have been rejected. In order to reward Klemenčić for not solving the problem, you have proposed, through the Government, a Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights. That irony is even greater, it is a minister who is known as a violator of the Constitution, laws, human rights and fundamental freedoms. Let me remind you, coalition Members, of your coalition record: In order to ensure a return of confidence in financial institutions, supervisory institutions, the institution of the rule of law, it is necessary to define responsibility for the resulting bank hole and to require the compensation and liability of members of the administrations and supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks. Dr. Miro Cerar, your Prime Minister, stated: “There is no room in our country for those who look us quietly and shamelessly in the eyes while they steal and lie to us. It is necessary to create a climate that will put these individuals on the brink." And what have you done today, and what have you done to this day, and what will you do until the end of your term, a respected coalition with Dr. Mir Cerar in charge? Nothing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Have a good day to all of you! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Members and Members of the Desus Group have already said, at the general hearing of these two bills in July, that we do not support them again by the New Slovenia Group. And let me repeat why that is. The fact is that we all want a better and more effective prosecution in this area. It is also a fact that we do not need the proposed additions in our legal system, since already Article 191 of the State Prosecutor's Act allows for the establishment of departments and gives this possibility to the autonomous authority and decision of the leaders of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. Last but not least, two departments already exist, namely the Economic Criminal and Economic Corruption Department. All of this was explained on the parent’s working body where the proposals were rejected. In the Desus Group, as we have repeatedly pointed out, we certainly support the improvement of the conditions for the judicial treatment of banking crimes and the improvement of the effectiveness of the courts in the proceedings concerning these matters. It is also clear that we support the intention of the applicants, but we believe that the path chosen is not going in the right direction. We already have specialised courts in the Republic of Slovenia operating in four district courts dealing with economic crime. The law already in force also gives other heads of the Special Prosecutor's Office the opportunity to resist, in view of the situation of the response and independently of others, the establishment of a department where it assesses how to achieve a more effective, quality work in detecting the persecution of a particular type of crime. A number of regulations have been adopted that will, among other things, lead to more effective resolution of banking crime. I should only mention the adoption of a new Law on Courts, according to which instead of one, as has already been said, four specialised departments have been organised to prosecute in the most challenging cases of criminality, including banking crime cases. In view of the fact that there is already a special group of prosecutors working on the investigation of banking crime in the Special Prosecutor's Office, I reiterate that the situation will not be improved by amending legislation, but by making more effective use of existing resources. We are convinced that the proposed change would not help improve the trial in banking crime cases. On the basis of this, respected and respected, we do not support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u9	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members, good morning! Isn't it strange that billions of people in Slovenia have died and billions are not responsible for this? Practically today, no one is responsible for all of us, all of us taxpayers have been harmed by more than EUR 2 000 500, each of us has a debt of EUR 2 000 500, but there is no one in prison. I think that the fundamental question is how can people even believe in a country that there is justice in a country, but if the big fish responsible for a billion holes aren't for shelters, they walk freely around. And I guess we have even protests after prisons where they want prisons to become hotels, 12 TV channels are not too small, too many and 3 different menus on a meal more than enough. Where did we come to see Slovenian prisons becoming hotels, not prisons?Oh, my God! With such facts, it is clear that ordinary citizens find it difficult to believe in the real country. We all talked in this house, some of us did, but most of us said that the fight against banking crime needed to be strengthened, and the bank investigator adopted a special decision proposing that special prosecutions and courts should be established to that end. Even more so, the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, Harry Furlan himself, suggested that some kind of specialized department of the State Prosecutor's Office, focused solely on banking crime, would help to better prosecute bank criminals. There's practically no results. More than 200 different complaints were filed, but today we have someone in prison, not yet. That's why we acted in NSI. We have proposed two laws, the Law on the Courts and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which propose two simple solutions, namely the establishment of special courts and a special section of the State Prosecutor's Office, which would focus exclusively on banking crime. The main key point would be to concentrate all knowledge in one place and that these judges and those prosecutors could really only focus on this subject, not on any other subject. We are convinced that this would make a significant contribution to the enforcement of banking crime. Last but not least, you, the majority of you in this House, in the first reading when 38 Members voted in favour of this proposal and these two laws were adopted in the first reading. But look at the fragment. What happens next? Then the law comes to second reading before the parental committee, where I would say that there was a classic coup d'état by the committee, where the nine Members were elected by 38 Members. That the matter is even more complicated, today the National Assembly will not decide these matters at all. I'm so sincere about what we're here for. I listened to the parliamentary groups, where they said we do not support it, we will have such an attitude if there is no vote today. This is another thing that we cannot agree on that 9 Members can overtake the will of 38 Members. It was simple for the chairman to interpret the rules of procedure in such a way that, if the Committee decided that the law was inappropriate for further consideration, then the second reading would result in a vote in this house, but if the members of the committee simply rejected the law by voting, there was no vote. What's the logic here? If we are honest, it is in a substantive sense of the same thing; whether it is decided that the law is inappropriate for further consideration or whether the law is rejected by vote. The final result is the same. And in terms of democracy and one rule of law, legislative procedures should be concluded here at the plenary session, not on the committee itself. If that were possible, then today we would have those 38 Members, who we have already supported in the first reading of these two laws, at least the possibility of expressing our non-trust or opposition to those nine who have rejected this law on the Committee and sent it back to the Committee. Therefore, at the beginning of this meeting, I have to thank the President of the National Assembly, who reacted immediately and also by letter to the business committee, to arrange these matters. I would strongly like the business commission to meet as soon as possible, this interpretation, the unusual, strange and undemocratic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and to allow us to vote on these two proposals of the law. As a result, after the end of this debate, I would also like to propose to the President of the National Assembly a procedural proposal, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, because as a candidate I have this option, to withdraw or postpone the treatment of these two laws to one of the future meetings, until then I hope that the Business Commission will change the interpretation of this Rules of Procedure and that we will be able to vote on these two laws at one of the future meetings. In short, I am giving here, here, a procedural proposal to vote that this point, or to deal with this law, should be moved to one of the future meetings in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure. But let me just say two more sentences about why I think the adoption of these two laws is crucial and important. Look, first thing, nobody's actually sitting in jail today because all of us citizens have been harmed by large losses in banks, that's, I think, one very specific reason. Another concrete reason is that a number of institutions, including the National Assembly Commission, which investigates these matters, put forward a proposal, and we have supported it for the most part, all together, to go to these specialised departments and courts. The third thing that seems very important to me, because it should be one of the reasons why we don't need these two laws, is this famous Criminal Procedure Act. As long as the Secretary of State was at the meeting of the committee, as one of the reasons why these two are legally opposed, he pointed out that all the tools necessary to prosecute this banking crime are needed, we see them in the new Criminal Procedure Act. At that time, I warned the Secretary of State that this hope was on the ground, and then yesterday at the vote, it proved that I was right and that hoping in the Criminal Procedure Act was not crucial because the law had not been adopted. I think that this practically leads us to believe that, after the rejected Criminal Procedure Act, these two laws are the only tangible tools that remain in the fight against bank criminals. Here we will in some way show by concrete actions whether everything exists only in the declaration of convictions of banking crime, but when certain concrete actions are needed, the hands are numb again. Just one last argument; many say that all of this is already possible in the current legislation, all of these specialised departments in the state prosecutor's office. Yes, God help! Why, then, have they not done so before, if everything is possible in the current legislation? Why aren't they doing this? I think that this law would be a key incentive for them to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u11	In view of what has been said, whether you allow in essence before I put on a procedural basis, we will listen to another explanation and then I will put this procedural vote to the vote, because this is the right that the proposer has. The word is given by Miha Kordiš on behalf of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u12	Good afternoon! There has already been a lot of talk about economic crime, corruption and the bank hole in this mandate, and also about these two concrete proposals that we are considering today. And it is understandable that the attitude slowly began to repeat itself. Why? Because there has not been much change in this mandate. Not even a finder. A parliamentary investigation has been conducted to find the culprits and identify political responsibility for the bank hole. Another was set up for the money laundering affair. Both at the request of Members and Members. The proposal that we are considering today has been drawn up by the opposition. The parliamentary investigation of the mega-Romanian and the corruption of the combined investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermo-electric power plant is determined on a proposal from the opposition. What's the government doing in the meantime? The biggest coalition party promised to investigate the bank hole before the elections. It also promised the establishment of a special specialised court and announced a special law that would allow effective investigations not only of a bank hole but also of all other holes. Investments in TES 6 as well. These are all the things we find in the coalition agreement. Well, after three years of this mandate, three and a half years of pardon, it's clear that it's only going to stay with big promises. Most of the work, which involves investigating all the missing, overblown and corrupt projects in Slovenia, has been taken over by the opposition instead of the government. But the government and the coalition of opposition proposals still virtually never support. Even with the amendment of the Law on Courts and the Law on Public Prosecutions. Although the proposals were supported in the first round of consideration, three months later we will vote on the conclusion that the proposals are not suitable for further consideration. Indeed, the solutions they bring may not have contributed much to the more effective detection and prosecution of banking crime, but they would certainly have contributed more than the government's solutions, which are not at all. While the government says that it has done a great deal in this area and has indeed taken some measures, none of them will contribute to the identification of responsibility for a hole that has already been patched up. They'll only be useful if it happens again. Measures to contribute to the search for the culprits of banking crime are still missing. On the proposal of Levice, a decision was already taken by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in February 2015 ordering the Government to prepare within three months all necessary to carry out a forensic review of the resolution of the banking system. Well, two and a half years later, a little more, we still don't have these bases. The proposals before us may not be the best solution to make a significant contribution to the prosecution of banking crime, but they will certainly contribute more than the government’s non-existent solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u13	So we are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Now, as I have announced, I am putting to the vote the Magi proposal. Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly of 10 and 11 of the agenda shall be postponed to one of the following meetings of the Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? No, no, no. He wants the word "magic." Matthew Tonin to further explain the reasons for the postponement? Not at all. Then I conclude the presentation of my views or we turn to a vote on this motion. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 28. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Thus, in accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude agenda items 10 and 11. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law amending the law on local self-government under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. At its 40th meeting, on 4 October 2017, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u14	Your Honor! There's no sound. The proposed novel is another of the popular proposals of the laws of the unrelated Member, Andrej Couch, which he submitted to the National Assembly in this mandate, but this will end with a non-salant approach and poorly designed solutions. The bill is problematic because it shows Cuz's misinterpretation or even misunderstanding of the concept of a participatory budget, as the proposer replaces the authorities that decide on this issue. Participative budget is a form of citizen participation in the drafting of the regulation and does not mean that they decide instead of democratically elected municipal authorities. If the municipality decides to implement a participatory budget, it shall set a certain amount of funds for this purpose and, in the context of the public debate, invite the public to propose a set of projects which, depending on the importance and necessity of ranking, are to be included in the budget and shall be decided by the municipal council at the end of the budget proposal by the mayor. The proposed solution is therefore contrary to the system of local self-government, since it deprives elected authorities of part of their powers. The legal and legal service even warns that it is in fact not a matter of law at all, but of solutions in the form of guidelines that are not appropriate to the content or manner of legal regulation. In her opinion, the proposed solution is also inappropriate, whereby citizens should have the option of deciding on a participatory budget at the referendum, given that the decision on this should be taken by the citizens themselves, and also in the light of the legal arrangements in force, whereby the possibility of deciding at the referendum on the budget is excluded. In the SMC Group, we regret that the unrelated Member of the Czech Republic has so easily and irresponsibly embarked on the regulation of such an important topic, which touches on understanding the essence of citizens' participation in the management of local public affairs. It is worth noting that there is not only one version of the institution of the participatory budget, so the differences are in the level of compliance with the wishes and proposals of the population. In order for a participatory budget to produce the desired results, the broad participation of the population concerned by the budget is essential. This is also a major problem, as it is a process that people, especially people in places that do not have a tradition of activism and self-organization, need to learn. Some municipalities in Slovenia have already met with participation procedures and in general the participation of citizens in the preparation of municipal budgets in Slovenia is weak. In Slovenia, the participatory budget was introduced into the work of the Maribor municipality, followed by an example in Ankaran, Ajdovščina and Komno, Novi Gorica and Škofljica. Slovenian legislation clearly lays down how budgets are drawn up for local and national level and does not provide for different procedures or exceptions. Therefore, the said municipalities that carry out such a concept are essentially carrying out some kind of consultation. The introduction of the concept of a participatory budget requires a change of legislation, and the Government has decided to strengthen the role of the municipalities by means of a new amendment to the Local Self-Government Act while introducing a participatory budget. At the beginning of July, that is, before the Council of State submitted its proposal for a law, the competent department on the eDemocracy portal published a new law containing the amendments mentioned above. The Government proposal lays down the obligation for the municipal council in the municipality in which the smaller parts of the municipalities are established, by a municipal budget decree, to determine the amount of funding for projects proposed by the councils of the smaller parts of the municipalities. This, on the one hand, strengthens the role of the smaller parts of the municipality and, on the other hand, highlights a permanent dialogue between the public authorities and the public on the use of public funds. The law leaves the municipal authorities, the mayor, as the exclusive budget proposalr and the municipal council, which he accepts to set an appropriate amount of resources for each budget, while the provision expressly requires that the project saints do not propose projects without consultation with the public. What form of consultation they will use is the matter of every council of the lower part of the congregation. They may decide on the thematic public tribunals or on the convening of the assembly of citizens. Nevertheless, appropriate administrative and professional support should be provided by the municipal administration in the process of consultation on project proposals and decision-making of the priority order with the Council of the smaller parts of the community. That is why we will wait in the parliamentary group for the consideration of the government proposal and support it, and we have rejected the proposal of the law already on the working body because it has not been supported by the Council of State or by representative associations of the municipalities. He was not even supported by invited guests who presented examples of good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, fellow Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we certainly welcome the solutions that encourage cooperation in the management of public affairs. Public awareness of common finances needs to be raised. Last but not least, the congregation is that bibian unit where each individual lives and operates. We believe that serious debate is needed on the proposed solutions, such as the participatory budget, and thus the importance of encouraging citizens to work actively. In addition, unfortunately, this proposal is incomplete and has not received adequate support from the home labour body. At the same time, what such a form means for the role of mayors in the municipality and also for the relationship of organs in the municipality must be determined. The already existing regulation makes this possible indirectly, through the narrower parts of the municipality, where all initiatives and proposals are being gathered, as well as proposals, which are being evaluated in the budget preparation process and, on the basis of this, are also placed in the budget in accordance with the legal and financial capabilities. This is, of course, the responsibility of the mayor and the municipal authorities to the citizens and the citizens who carry it out. They should also be aware of the importance of promoting the activities of citizens and citizens, as well as of confidence in politics, and ultimately of improving their quality of life in the congregation. For not everything is in the regulation of obligations. The representative of the Government said on the Committee that the Government was already preparing a new Law on Local Self-Government, which also regulates a participatory budget in one article. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we expect the Government to send this law to the legislative process as soon as possible, where, of course, we will listen carefully and follow this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u18	Dear President, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! The proposal to amend the law under consideration was heard on the part of all stakeholders on the part of the home labour body in principle in favour of the so-called participatory budget. For all of us agree that citizens and citizens who know best what needs to be done in a particular congregation are set up and what money needs to be spent. However, the fact is that the proposal proposed by Mr Chuš does not make any difference, since it is a matter of decision-making, as stated by the representative of the Council of State, on the eluded form of cooperation between citizens and citizens and others in the decision-making process on the use of budgetary resources used by the mayors as budget promoters. Usually, all initiatives and proposals that are evaluated in the preparation of the budget shall be collected within the framework of the smaller parts of the municipalities and, on the basis of this, shall be placed in the municipal budget either for the current year or for the following year. The proposal is, of course, welcome at first sight, but it must be said that such a proposal is opposed even by the municipalities themselves, namely the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, as well as the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council. Many comments are also made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which states, inter alia, that the solutions proposed do not meet the basic requirements of the rule of law principle, and in this context in particular the principles of clarity and certainty of legal standards. In addition, with regard to the proposed solutions, the question of interference with the fundamental principle of local self-government is also raised that the municipality performs its functions independently through its elected bodies, as well as the administrative and system-wide regulation of the budget area. All the arguments cited were also the reason why we opposed the bill in the Desus Group. However, despite all the concerns we have in the Group of Members, we believe that the debate on the Labour Committee has been welcome and useful, as positive practices for the implementation of this form of municipal budget have also been presented, which proves that where will is, power is also available. The current law allows for this option, but it is not binding, which is what the proposal seeks to achieve by proposing the Cuz. All mayors were elected to listen to the needs of their citizens and to work to improve their quality of life. Close cooperation, according to the Desus Group, should be a priority, almost a self-evident and logical move of every mayor who adheres to his ethical and moral principles. However, despite some glamorous exceptions, practice shows us a slightly different picture when there is an annual fight in individual municipalities around the statutory process of adopting local budgets, not to mention the still red numbers of over-indebted municipalities. That is why we are raising questions about the meaning of the legal regulation of this issue, and that is why changes need to be made in a thorough and thoughtful manner, for which the representatives of the Government have already prepared a legal basis which will also govern the way in which the participatory budget is implemented. In the Desus Group, we expect the competent ministry to provide these and the promised changes in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear fellows! The proposed amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government of the Member of the Czech Republic, which commands municipalities to be bound by a participatory budget, is not the happiest or even the most serious move, and we have therefore rejected it on the working body of the Social Democrats. Why such an assessment? From the practice of many of us here, who at any time or in any way participated in the preparation of the congregation’s budget and endeavored to develop the congregation for the benefit of all citizens and citizens, we know that in preparing the budget we need to cooperate with and listen to representatives of the larger parts of the municipalities, local communities, fourth communities, where there are no such parts. It is necessary to collect proposals, evaluate them and place them in development programmes and put them into the budget and also implement them in accordance with the law and financial capabilities. This also opens up additional possibilities for co-financing by the State or even for obtaining European funds. Cooperation and communication between the mayor and the municipal administration on the one hand and the inhabitants on the other is more than necessary, but sometimes, of course, this path is also arduous. However, despite our clear definition on the working body, allow me to touch on the opinions of those involved in this legislative process. The opinion of the Council of State, which has 22 representatives of local communities, has also made it clear that the proposal is opposed. They wrote that it was an unrestrained attempt to enforce the participatory budget of the municipalities. A negative opinion on the proposal was also given by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. In the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, it has been estimated that by adopting this novel with as good practice as the participatory budget, it would have failed. Of course, today is an opportunity for those mayors and municipal councilors who have not yet realized that the participation of citizens and citizens in deciding on the use of budgetary resources in many local environments is already a fugitive and good practice, to remind them and also to invite them to learn about these good practices in their interest associations; in the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, in the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and also in the Association of the Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u21	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Local self-government is a constitutional institution and represents the closest and direct contact with its inhabitants, citizens in accordance with the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government exercise local self-government through the elections of municipal councils, which, as a representative body, executes tasks under municipal jurisdiction, and with the election of mayors who hold executive functions in the municipality. However, they can make direct decisions at assemblies of citizens, in referendums and through a human initiative. Although the proposal for today's amendment to the Local Self-Government Act is very welcome from the point of view of citizens in deciding on a certain part of the budget that would be intended to implement their proposals. At first glance, we can attach it, but it is completely incomplete, too general and will cause confusion in the field of local self-government. It is only a set of guidelines on how citizens should participate in decision-making on priority municipal investments. In Novi Slovenije we are convinced that this way would put the municipality in an uneven position. The municipal council is supposed to determine the level of the participatory budget itself and there are no sanctions for non-compliance with the legal obligation. Nor does the proposal talk about how citizens could participate or choose projects to be financed from this part of the budget. In no Member State of the European Union regulates this area at the level of national legislation; it is only individual pilot projects, which are largely operational. Our current Law on Local Self-Government also allows the participation of citizens, proposals and initiatives to be collected within the framework of the smaller parts of the municipalities and can be included in the draft municipal budget. However, we cannot overlook the fact that the mayor of the municipality is always responsible for proposing the budget and its implementation. The reality is that there is one wish of the citizens, and the other there are realistic budget options, and the third one there is responsibility for the budget. It is also her responsibility to carry out all the tasks for which she is established within the limits of the law and for the benefit of her inhabitants. Some congregations have already established such a form of participatory cooperation, without any provision in the law that would oblige them to do so. These are examples of good practices that already exist in Slovenian municipalities. All of this shows that there is no need for legal regulation in this area. According to the proposal in New Slovenia, of course we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u23	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u24	We are in favour of democratisation of the country and local self-government in Levica, especially because the regime trend is moving in a diametrically opposite direction. For in recent years, the degree of democracy in our society has been declining, we have referendums, which are being limited, we have conditions for public participation, which are being tightened. Well, even in this mandate, it was proposed to abolish the direct elections of members in the councils of the fourth, village and local communities, arguing that the democratic and direct elections would not require financial expenditure. Participative budget is certainly a form of direct democracy that we should legitimize, but this should be done in a slightly more resourceful way than this proposal you hear. On the other hand, the government’s solution together is not exactly what we would like. The delays concerning the introduction of the participatory budget are, in my view, unjustified. The Brazilian city of Porto Alegre introduced this form of direct democracy in 1989. Today, at European Union level, more than 8 million citizens have been directly involved in the decision-making process in more than a thousand 300 cities. In Slovenia, there are only a handful of such municipalities. On the other hand, there are many municipalities and mayors who do not want citizens and citizens to cross their plans to spend public money. Well, that is precisely why we socialists believe that the municipalities need to be encouraged to introduce a participatory budget. This can only be done by introducing this form of public participation at the legal level – with clear rules and a certain procedure. It is true that the proposal made by Chuš is not good and in fact does not have any content and clear definition of a participatory budget and could even go a step further and say that it is balinian. Nevertheless, he has made some force useful; he has opened a debate on this and the debate on the lack of democracy in our society, the lack of democratic control can only be welcomed. As a result, of course, the interest of the public and especially young people in the current policy is low. Participation in referendums and elections is particularly low. The regime, the truth about loving, regime parties and mayors don't exactly like the public getting too involved in their work. The current government and coalition have already opened up social issues in Levica, and it is not always good to point out its wrong policies. That is why they are probably not in the interest of giving too much power to the civilian public. Its involvement in the management of public affairs is first understood as an obstacle to their work and this is shown by the fact that it prefers to adopt legislation without public debate and the possibility that the public concerned will comment. However, if he manages to submit them, he simply ignores their suggestions. I therefore believe that it is high time for specific social changes. For a society where citizens and citizens have an impact on the development of the country and the impact on policy decisions, and within it, it is also a time to introduce democratic control, because if they had, they would probably not have seen the bank hole, they would not have seen TES 6, they would not have seen the unbridled privatisation and, on average, they would not have seen the sale of social property. Participative budget is certainly one of the institutions that prevents mayors' will and allows citizens and citizens to improve the quality of life in the municipality by deciding on investments. That should be our first step. It should immediately be followed by a second step, and this is to introduce a participatory budget at the level of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u25	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, fellows! I must say, I am a little surprised at this negative response when we are talking about involving people in the use of their money. Tax money is nothing but people's money. Participative budget is one word that probably doesn't tell many people much. Unfortunately, we have not found any better Slovenian words to date. What does that actually mean? Involvement or codecision of people in spending their money and from left to right is, in fact, all of you are against it. It is very difficult to understand this; as it is on the committee today. Put your hands on your heart. The marriage isn't good. It should be better prepared, but however, we are talking about content, we are talking about involving citizens in the preparation of the budget. But this does not mean that citizens will just voluntarily decide on the whole budget, but on a certain scale – 2 percent. We could have decided otherwise. Thus, citizens would say what they really need in their congregation, what they would like to see in their congregation. The second mandatory step in this is, of course, that this investment must be feasible, the conditions must be met so that this investment can be made. But all of this can be arranged and I think it is right that in 2017 we commit the mayors to asking people for 2% of the budget. I will tell you in the case of the community of Komen that did this, our mayor Marko Bandelli did this excellently, 60 thousand euros, which is 2 percent of their budget per year divided into projects that were selected in some way by people in the referendum. 24 such projects will be completed in 2017 and 2018. So, yes. Not here to tell people that you can't! Those who say you can't, I'll arrange for you to visit the Municipality of Komen and we'll show you on the spot how to do it, as well as the projects that have been carried out. A colleague from SMC said that Slovenian legislation does not provide for this. Yes, of course it doesn't! I would determine if there was a will here, but unfortunately there is no, and I am really disappointed that in 2017 we do not find a hearing in the National Assembly for citizens to decide on their money. And logically, the mayors are against it! Logically, it's some extra effort, but any responsible mayor would do it without the law. I'll give you another case. When we set or set quotas in Slovenian politics – one hundred and one reason was why this was not possible; but women are not interested, they will not find enough women for the list, today we are 32 in the National Assembly. Before the mandatory quotas were introduced into politics, women were counted on the fingers of one hand. So it's also an obligation to do something. I would like to see this proposal – no, an improved proposal from my colleague once again get a place in this mandate, and let us all really think together about what you have rejected. There is no more voting today because you have done your part on the committee, but we must not be afraid of people's politics. We're here for them and for them. We should be aware of this every day in the congregation and in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the agenda item, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. At its 42nd meeting, held on 4 October 2017, the draft law considered the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, the Social Democrats, the Modern Centre Party and Desus rejected the reduction in value added tax due to so-called fiscal reasons, which are virtual or non-real, because these fiscal reasons are no longer there. In fact, in 2017, all the treasury state budget, or all the treasury states, will be paid for by the state budget, the pension treasury, the health treasury, for 1 billion more money than in 2016. In other words, the revenues increased significantly with economic growth, even with the 2018 and 2019 budget, this is fully visible and said by government representatives. Therefore, there is no reason to cement a higher value added tax rate of 22 % in general, and simply the value added tax rate should be reduced to that which was in the pre-crisis period of 20 %. This would actually win everyone; on the one hand, spending would increase; on the other hand, citizens and citizens could buy more for their money, no less. Definitely more. The question is, of course, how much more. There may be different views here, but more. With the value added tax being lower, the tax itself would have a minor regressive effect, which means that the social component of this tax would have been somehow reduced and, of course, the social situation of the poorest would not ultimately be better; in fact, they could have bought more for their income. The coalition didn't approve of it, and it doesn't seem to want it. No matter how many excuses there are about the fiscal rule, and so on and so forth, but ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the revenues themselves, then we can find that the country has enough money in the broadest sense. Secondly, there is a structural deficit, which is also referred to by the Fiscal Council, but here there is a need to distinguish between the structural deficit and the ordinary deficit. The structural deficit stems from the fact that this government has not made any structural shifts or, in other words, substantial changes in areas that would actually reduce this structural deficit. Some would say she hasn't done any reform either, and I'm not going to use that term. In doing so, I can only say that this is about the attitude of this government and the attitude of this coalition towards citizens and citizens. The relationship in this sense that citizens and citizens will still still pay in fact more so that, of course, they will be in a poor social situation, especially the poorest ones, and that nothing will probably happen in this area this year, but maybe next year there will be some of the pre-election candy that the Government promises. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the reduction of value added tax because we believe that the financial situation of the State is such that, even if it has some short-term fiscal effect, the state and state stability, financial stability can easily bear it. As a result, nothing special would have happened; no crisis would have been due to this, none of it would have been to make the country unstable. Moreover, I think that these rates would contribute to the stability and competitive situation of the country, particularly because these rates are among the higher in the European Union. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we supported the reduction of value added tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u29	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellows! It is a little strange that the proposed marriage is not in the Chamber when representatives of political parties here present their views, but I will nevertheless present this position, hoping that you will listen to me and that, of course, the Slovenian public will also find out what we think or what our position is in Desus. What's the difference between his last, practically identical proposal? The difference is that at the time we slowly swapped long sleeves with shorts, and now we have actually swapped short sleeves with long sleeves. Since the rejection of the previous novel identical content of the same proposer, the only change is that it was then spring, today is autumn. Even if the proposalr's re-examination could be understood as some kind of upgrade to the previous system – which, of course, is not because it is the same thing – of course, they could be somewhat critical. I'll talk about it later. Despite our warnings that tax policy is not going to go unsaid, I will not talk about systemic solutions, but in particular without precise financial calculations of the consequences, this time, too, we have in the proposal of the law only a skewed argument by the proposer, our proposals to make more concrete, more systematic action on the proposals for these changes, of course remain unheard. It justifies its proposals on the belief that increased final consumption by reducing value added tax will solve all the financial problems of the country, of course we are not convinced. Members and Members of our parliamentary group, therefore, have failed to convince us, so we have rejected the proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Act already on the working body. We believe or believe that a reduction in the VAT rate does not necessarily mean a benefit for consumers, does not mean that retail prices will automatically become lower, as traders can quickly replace them with high margins and the price of products will remain at the same level or even increase. Last but not least, there are billions at the annual level of profits from trade organisations or entities in this area, as well as billions of investments. So traders are not the most vulnerable target group. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is nice to be part of a creative, more just social state, to take measures to ensure better quality citizens' conditions, to ensure higher social transfers, to ensure higher minimum wages, to ensure higher pensions and so on, but, of course, to know that this money is also needed somewhere. Unfortunately, this money is collected through tax revenues, through contributions to health care, social treasury and so on. And some of the measures that we have unfortunately taken, but this is the reality, even during this government, these coalitions have done, of course, these are the tax receipts, and the change in the income scale, are, in the context of picking up somewhere, and that when people need these aid, these are vulnerable target groups, they are also divided. It is not enough to be a creator only on one side, on the same side, when something is just being shared in order to gain political points. The creation of a tax policy must be pursued in a fair manner through the reallocation of all tax and other burdens. In the Desus Group, we support, of course, the solidarity principle, which we think is crucial, which must certainly not be on account and on one of the most vulnerable. Tax money must be charged with the tax revenues of those who create above average, and in the same breath, I would also like to say that they do not have to be exhausted to the end, but at the same time we must not go to a restrictive tax policy at the expense of those who do not even have to survive. We estimate that it would be more reasonable to consider a different decision than, for example, a zero or substantially reduced value added tax rate for those basic foods and for other services and items that people need every day in order to survive, in particular, to tax those luxury items that are not necessary for everyday life. In the opinion of Ambassadors and Members of Desus, the bill would need a little more seriousness in its formulation and explanation. We are missing a qualitative analysis of the financial implications, an reasoned explanation of the individual articles and an assessment of any consequences that might arise when the proposed novel is adopted. Even when this amendment was reintroduced, the motioner, Sir Chuš, took no account of what I have just said or counted, so we are once again in position and we have no great dilemma about rejecting the bill once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u31	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The legislative procedure proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act was concluded on the home labour body where the law was rejected. Nevertheless, some of the starting points, which are extremely important, must be highlighted. It is a fact that we can find out, however, that together during the financial and economic crisis, when a decision was taken after the increase in the general tax rate from 21% to 22% or from 20% to 22% and from 8.5% to 9.5%, we all contributed to the budget around €350 million by purchasing goods and services. This moment we are just before the adoption of the budget rebalancing for 2018 and the new budget for 2019, the law, if implemented, would enter into force with effect from 1 January 2018, which would, of course, also mean a very serious breach in both budgets, and thus, of course, a very serious difficulty in how to actually close the budget and ensure the functioning of all sectors in the country, and in particular those that relate to the fact that we can provide a higher standard for those with the lowest incomes or with the heavier living conditions that are already around 400,000 in Slovenia. So, the intervention of 350 million in such a short time is, of course, impossible to replace, but it is also right to consider measures that could be taken; for the first time, we have contributed to reducing public consumption where possible. The procurement system is certainly one of those that should be cleaned in the future, as comparisons with other countries for related services or investment show that sometimes prices are twice as high in Slovenia as they are abroad. So there is a lot of reserve in the public procurement system, and it is particularly important that we try, of course, to invest the funds in the budget in development. Here, too, I would like to point out that we have insisted that the Government is already trying to provide an additional EUR 9 million for science and additional resources in 2018 and 2019, as well as for science. This is certainly an investment that will be repaid in the future and will bring higher added value as well as higher revenues. It would be important to introduce similar measures for R & D to a higher extent also for the economy and thus encourage them to invest in technological investment and thus new innovations. This means that the Slovenian economy would be even more competitive in the future than otherwise, when we create the bulk of our gross domestic product in foreign markets. So only by investing in knowledge and innovation can we maintain our presence, so successful in foreign markets, and within the country there is a lot to rationalise and the procurement system is certainly one of those that can contribute greatly. We have pointed to this in the stage of the debate on the labour market and, last but not least, the constant efforts to do more to reduce waiting lines must go in this direction, in order to also relieve the economy, because less than the hospital stock, it has less costs for the economy, less costs for the public budget and health insurance, so that many measures are actually ahead of us that need to be included in this. This debate on the possibility of reducing value added tax has, of course, opened up all these options and, on the one hand, the introduction of this law was welcome precisely because we had exchanged views on how to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u33	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenije, we had a strong response to the increase in value added tax at the time of the increase forecast in 2013. From 20% to 22% and from 8.5% to 9.5%, of course, we understood it as a measure contrary to the Christian-Democratic Programme. It is therefore quite clear that we support the proposal for a law that restores the level of value added tax to the previous level. The latest World Economic Forum report also estimates that, in addition to inefficient state bureaucracy, the most difficult factor is the high tax rate for the business environment in Slovenia and that this report, ladies and gentlemen, of the World Economic Forum is also read by potential foreign investors who are often passing through Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, the coalition does not feel any preference for tax cuts, as it did not support this proposal for lower taxes on the parent's working body. Even more unusual is the fact that the Left Government Coalition does not support the reduction of the tax that affects the poorest citizens most because they spend the largest share of their income on the consumption of the products they need to survive. The so-called social bloc of this coalition or this Parliament has therefore struck again at the weakest. Contrary to the government's restraint on tax cuts, we can see that this is much braver when it comes to taking from the budget. Let me just remind you of the union arrangements and the recapitalisation of SDH and DUTB. For these budgetary expenditure alone, the Government has committed more than €350 million. 350 million euros; 350 million euros without a decision here in the National Assembly! The budgetary documents also show that the Government cannot turn growth and budget revenues into reductions in taxes and improvements in the business environment. The way in which state fiscal policy is managed indicates, above all, that the government is too unaware of the fact that money is created in the economy and in the economy alone. Fruits of gross social product growth and consequently the expansion of the state budget under the leadership of the existing government reap only the expenditure side of the budget. However, companies concerned with budgetary enlargement are waiting for at least a little burden to be lifted. By rejecting this proposal, the government coalition has wasted the possibility of at least slightly improving the tax and business environment in the Republic of Slovenia. Reducing the burden of value added tax would certainly increase consumption, stimulate economic activity and improve the operating conditions of economic operators. The high-tax policy shows great mistrust for the ability of citizens to manage the money they deserve. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage these funds instead. This policy is rejected by the Christian Democrats and we are very concerned about the transformation of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia into the accounting of the Republic of Slovenia. Since reducing tax burdens is an extremely important part of the direction of the New Slovenia economic programme, of course we support the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u35	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u36	The Left does not support the demagogic proposals. If this proposal had been adopted, the budget would have lost 300 million euros a year. Now, in principle, this fall could be replaced by higher taxes on capital and property, which would be okay and would contribute to the rise of social justice, but Member Chuš does not suggest this. Thus, if this proposal were to be adopted, public expenditure should be reduced by EUR 300 million. The only aggregate that could cover such a fallout is salaries, social benefits and pensions. So – yes, lowering value added tax can be a socially fair measure, but if implemented as proposed, it would affect just the socially weakest and working classes. In normal circumstances, such basic finances should not be identified at Parliament's hearing because no one would make such proposals. Well, with us, that kind of thing happens all the time. The first time we discussed the Couche Act, Nova Slovenija took off with an even more radical amendment to align the value added tax rate in Slovenia with the value added tax rate in Germany. At that time, we made it clear that we are socialists for, provided we also introduce the German rate of profit tax. In Germany, profit is not taxed at the rate of 19 % as we do, but at the rate of 29 %. Of course, this is a measure that capitalists would never support, regardless of how beneficial and socially equitable it is. It is clear that those who propose laws such as these today do not mean literally, but only use them as a reference point for spreading neoliberal ideology. But I'm sorry, it's too much, but it's too much. It is extremely cynical that we have a right, which on the one hand requires more expenses for family policy and more money for the military, but I do not know what else, but at the same time comes in with laws and amendments that would bring our country to its financial knees in one year, and in another year into bankruptcy. I don't just give these data and these judgments out of my head, but I can support them with the calculations of the Ministry of Finance. The social cap and the social slipper would reduce the revenue of the budget and the social treasury by €826 million. A single income relief would reduce the budget by €470 million, but then there is this today's Couche proposal, which would turn 300 million more holes. All of this brings us 1,6 billion reductions in public finances, which, of course, is a drastic hole that would also reflect social justice and development capacity, practically in everything that stands up to the concept of a social state. That's something that socialists can never land on. A proper approach to tax policy would start with a flat-rate entry point; therefore, additional health insurance must be abolished to begin with and replaced by a solidarity public tax. It is necessary to raise the tax on the income of legal persons, i.e. the taxation of capital, and thus to provide more resources for those who live and are nobled by the efforts of the working class. Of course, fair taxation from high-value property and, of course, from high personal incomes should also be introduced. When they establish such incomes in our country on a fair, solidarity, progressive basis, then we would also have significantly more resources to remedy our social system and our health system, which beats the stitches, and still a step further, even enough resources to reduce the value added tax; because basically VAT is and remains an unfair, regressive tax. After the pocket most hits the one who has the least, someone who behaves with income, say the supervisor of the New Ljubljana Bank or any manager for 10 or more euros pays a month, and of course these few percentages of bread and other everyday goods do not at all confuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u37	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! I will now present the position of the SMC Group, which will be somewhere between the right and the left, because Mr Andrej Čulš has re- tabled in the National Assembly a change in the Value Added Tax Act, with which he wanted the value added tax rate to return to the previous situation; the upper levels from 22 to 20; and the lower levels from 9 % to 8,5 %. With regard to the existing value added tax regime, it should be pointed out that, as a secret measure, VAT raising was adopted under the government of Alenka Bratušek, in May 2013, the then government committed itself to raising VAT as a permanent measure in the stability programme submitted to the European Commission. Of course, we understand the sustainability of the measure because the former government has increased the country's debt and created a large deficit due to the resolution of the banking system. This government is aware that due to the prevailing situation, public debt needs to be reduced in the way it was intended in 2013, i.e. by a sustained increase in VAT rates. We can certainly assess that, due to respect for the commitments made, we cannot cancel this; VAT is not substituted for VAT. The public financial situation does not give an opportunity to reduce VAT rates without simultaneous measures on the revenue or expenditure side, and this is not indicated by the applicant – the change in VAT rates results in around EUR 300 million of budget revenue falling in 2018. It must be said, however, that the Government by means of measures strengthens the competitiveness of the business environment, affecting sustainable economic growth and increasing the global competitiveness of Slovenia on the one hand, while ensuring public financial consolidation by gradually structurally balancing public finances. However, as regards consumer promotion, it should be noted that the reduction in VAT rates does not necessarily mean that the final prices of goods and services should also be reduced proportionately. Because I would like to point out that it is not necessary for traders at a time when VAT would be reduced, to close trade, to make an inventory and to show lower prices at prices, as was the case in the former country. I would like to stress this in particular, since this does not mean that customers would buy cheaper. With regard to promoting consumption, however, it is worth mentioning that we have approached this through a mini-tax reform, which has also allowed to raise additional general relief of EUR 300 from the current 10 000 866.37 to 11 000 146.379 and excluding part of the salary for business performance from the labour income base and a slight change in the income scale for employees above 1.6 times the average wage. Here I think we've done the most for people by restructuring in a way of taxing and unloading our work. This has helped to meet the weakest, because tax collection is actually a way of facilitating life and a better life for people, as it allows financing for health, education and social transfers of the weak. We also encourage consumption through the measures of the new tax package, which is in the National Assembly. Thus, the solutions to the new Income Act allow higher incomes for selective groups. The change in the way in which additional general relief is determined allows certain taxpayers to increase their net average wage. The increase in special relief for students and students also increases their net earnings. All of this will have a positive impact on consumption without jeopardising public finances at all. For all of this reason, the SMC Group is against the solutions proposed by this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u39	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 23. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AVENTIVE EXPOSURE OF THE SECOND PARAGRAPH 26. Member of the Medical Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by Mr Jožef Horvat to the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, the Health Committee, as a mother labourer, proposes that the State dentist not accept the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation. In order to present the Committee's proposal, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! At its 26th meeting, the Health Committee considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Jožef Horvat. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also an opinion from the Council of State or its Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. At the meeting of the committee, the proposaler, Joseph Horvat, explained the reasons for the submission of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation. Following the adoption of the Act on Pharmaceuticals, in his opinion, the prohibition of vertical links between pharmaceutical operators and legal entities engaged in the production of medicinal products or the activity of wholesale transport with medicinal products and medical devices raises doubts as to the necessity of carrying out the sales procedure of Pharmadent, d.o.o., and of LL Grossist, d.o.o., since legal theorists advocate the view that a pharmacy operator is not a municipality under law, but a public institution which prohibits only vertical connections to public institutions and not to municipalities. Authentic interpretation is necessary to ensure that there are no doubts as to whether the municipalities of Maribor and Ljubljana comply with the provisions of the adopted Act on Pharmacy Activities can also be owned by the future owners of these companies. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Ms Bien Karlovšek stressed in her presentation of the written opinion that there was no need for an authentic explanation. For reasons that can be understood from the applicant's statements, it cannot be justified to adopt it, as an authentic interpretation of the law cannot be adopted in the light of its purpose in order to prevent any incorrect application of the legal provision in practice and cannot be answered by possible non-conclusion with the implementation of the legal provision. This is aimed at the use of other institutions, in particular the use of legal remedies within the framework of the right to judicial protection. The representative of the Ministry of Health, Minister of State Anja Medved, pointed out in her presentation of the opinion of the Government that the proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Article 26(2) of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities was substantively such that it could not be complemented by an authentic interpretation, since the proposed substantive amendment would amend the legal provision and extend it, which could only be done with the amendment of the law, and therefore the Government did not consider such an initiative to be justified. After the introductory part, the Committee referred to the question of whether this authentic explanation should be adopted. The debate pointed out that the authentic interpretation of the content of the law did not change in terms of the legalisation of something which the law prohibited. However, it was proposed that the municipality should be given an initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government. Following the conclusion of the discussion under Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee came to the vote on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: The Health Committee considers it necessary to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 26(2) of the Law on Pharmacy. The Committee did not adopt that proposal. In view of this, the Committee on Health proposes that, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 26(2) of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u41	To present my views on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the applicant, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! On one of the many field visits, the parliamentary group also visited the Municipality of Maribor in June this year. There I took note of their request for an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which was necessary in order not to raise doubts as to whether the Municipality of Ljubljana, in the case of LL Grossist, d.o.o., and the Municipality of Maribor, in the case of Farmadent, d.o.o., were in accordance with the provisions of the adopted law of ULD-1, could also be found in the future owners of those companies. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Act on Pharmacy Activities, pharmacists shall not directly or indirectly establish, direct or supervise legal persons engaged in the activities of the industrial manufacture of medicinal products, medical devices and other products to support or manage the treatment and maintenance of health or the activity of traffic in bulk with medicinal products and medical devices, or through capital investments, or otherwise acquire or control the management of these legal persons. Furthermore: in accordance with Article 3(3), public pharmacies shall not, directly or indirectly, hold shares or shares in capital or other investments in legal entities engaged in the industrial production of medicinal products, medical devices and other products to support treatment and to maintain the health or activity of wholesale transport with medicinal products and medical devices. As has also been pointed out by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in response to the question sent in March this year, I quote, “... the purpose and purpose of the law is to prohibit the so-called vertical link, that is to say the links between drug business operators and drug manufacturers and so on. Any connection, including through connected persons, is explicitly prohibited. Since the municipalities are founders of public pharmacies and are also exposed in two cases, the proposed transfer of the ownership share of the Pharmadent or LL Grossist to the Municipality of Maribor or the Municipality of Metno Ljubljana would not satisfy the legal conditions.” End of quote from the government statement. Despite this position, doubts still arise as to the necessity of carrying out the sale procedure of Farmadent, d.o.o., or LL Grossist, d.o.o., since legal theorists defend the position that a pharmacy operator is not a municipality under law, but a public institution which prohibits only vertical connections to public institutions and not to municipalities. It has also been pointed out that, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, it is not possible for the State to restrict the form of property to the municipality, since it could thus intervene in the constitutional position of the municipality and in the concept of local self-government. As a proposaler, I propose that the provision of the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activity, ZLD-1, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 85/16, it should be understood that the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor may continue to own LL Grossist, d. o. o., or Farmadent, d. o. o. And under the line; I am sure and I know that at least most of the coalition during the coalition coordination phase of the law was understood by the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Pharmaceutical Activity Act as I proposed in the authentic explanation. This is further confirmed by the debate of one of the SMC Members on the home working body, which certainly knows a lot about this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u43	To explain my position, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Jožica Maučec Zakotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u44	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! Mr Jožef Horvat, Member of the National Assembly, proposed the adoption of an authentic interpretation concerning the provision of Article 26, paragraph 2, of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. The Member states that there are still doubts as to the necessity of carrying out the investigation procedure of the Pharmaceutical, d. o. o., or LL Grossist, d. o. o. With regard to the regulation in Article 26 of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, we explain that the restrictions on the operators of pharmaceutical activities have been extended in that Article. All restrictions are intended to ensure the professional integrity of employees and the professionally independent exercise of pharmacy activities for the benefit of patients. Let us explain to you the reasons why we included a ban on vertical connections in the Pharmaceuticals Act in both directions. When preparing the Pharmacy Act, we examined the arrangements in other Member States of the European Union and found that most of them, for whom we estimate that the pharmacy activity is well-managed, such as Austria, Germany, France, Italy, prohibit vertical connections and order that they should be majority or exclusive owners of pharmaceutical professionals. There are also judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union against Italy, Spain, Austria and Germany, which allowed the establishment of pharmacies only to pharmacists and prohibited wholesalers from owning pharmacies, as this would constitute an obstacle to the free economic initiative and the free movement of capital. The Court ruled that the European Commission is wrong because pharmacy is not a normal trade in goods and therefore the legislator in a Member State introduces restrictions if it considers that this increases the quality of pharmacy. About the velodrogeria. The Medicinal Products Act provides for the way in which drug users are supplied with medicines in the Republic of Slovenia through wholesalers and is not regulated by this law. Drug wholesalers have a level playing field with regard to medicinal products, as their earnings are defined by the Regulation on the Prices of Medicinal Products and on Human Use. Therefore, we do not see any impact on the supply of medicinal products by limiting vertical connections, but we are preventing the possibility of affecting the issue of medicinal products and other products in view of the possible economic impact on professional decisions. It is not clear that only two drug wholesalers will remain on the market after this law has been enforced, since in the Republic of Slovenia there are about 70 wholesalers registered with the majority determined by the partial assortment that pharmacies need. Velodrogeria, which does not operate in accordance with the conditions laid down in the law, must change their ownership structure during the transitional period and connect to someone who is not connected to a pharmacy activity. At the same time, the ban on vertical connections prevented Slovenian pharmacies from becoming the property of potential foreign wholesalers. We happen that certain manufacturers of medicines such as Krka, for example, and Roche, have already registered wholesalers in Slovenia. The question is, what kind of medical care would patients have in pharmacies whose owners would be producers, which is also prohibited by the law. The professional reasons for the ban are, to sum up: the professional independence of pharmacists whose primary concern is the care of individual health and the protection of public health. By preventing connections, the economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists is minimised and drug users operate in accordance with professional and ethical standards. The unregulated area of connections leads to the deregulation of pharmacy activities, as ownership ultimately determines economic activity. About the constitutional judgment. The Public Institute of Lekarna Ljubljana has submitted a constitutional opinion on the regulation of the prohibition of vertical connections. It should be pointed out that, pursuant to Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legislator has the power to regulate the exercise of the right to a free economic initiative and to restrict it in part if the restriction constitutes a legitimate and balanced intervention in the public interest. That constitutional judgment has already been examined by the National Assembly and has proposed to the Constitutional Court that the request be rejected or found that the legal provision is not inconsistent with the Constitution. To conclude, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the proposal to be such that it cannot be complemented by an authentic interpretation, since the proposed substantive amendment would amend the legislative provision and extend it, which can only be done with a new law, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not consider such an initiative to be justified. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly fully follows the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and notes that the proposed authentic interpretation does not meet the condition of admissibility. Both the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour and Health and the disabled, as the Health Committee, also addressed the proposal for an authentic interpretation and rejected the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u45	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you, Vice President! Hello again! We have discussed the prohibition of vertical links between pharmaceutical operators and manufacturers of medicinal products, even when it comes to the adoption of the Pharmacy Act. The concern of the proposers and those who supported such a proposal was that they must be the holder of the pharmacy activity and the operator of the pharmacy activity should be independent in the performance of their work. This way, according to our assessment, we can ensure the professional independence of the pharmacists, whose basic leadership is and must be the care for the health of the individual and the protection of public health. It also minimises the economic impact of manufacturers and wholesalers on pharmaceutical operators. The applicant for the authentic interpretation of Article 26(2) of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activity assessed that the interpretation was necessary in order not to raise doubts as to whether, in the case of LL Grossisti, d.o.o., the Municipality of Maribor, in the case of Farmadent, d.o.o., in accordance with the provisions of the adopted Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, could also be found in the future owners of those companies. The proposed authentic interpretation was set out in such a way that it did not fulfil the condition of admissibility, as it actually proposed to amend the legal provision, which is not intended for authentic interpretation. At the same time, in our Group of Members, we believe that the provisions of the Law are sufficiently clearly written to know what was meant and what the objective is to be achieved with it. However, we also agree in our parliamentary group with the proposer that the legal one-year transitional period, which runs out early next year, is clearly too short, as the municipalities in question also warn. Therefore, in our Group, we propose to the Ministry to consider extending the deadline for the enforcement of sales provisions, which, according to our opinion, would give the municipalities sufficient time to make all the necessary sales, because we believe that these sales are very difficult, also linked to the many contracts that these companies have. This would make these legal provisions more viable and realistic. Of course, if there is a sincere intention that these prohibitions of vertical connections are actually being realized. In the Desus Group, we will support the Health Committee's proposal not to adopt the proposal for an authentic explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u47	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! That we have such a proposal on the table today, which was put into the procedure by Mr Jožef Horvat, is not a big surprise for our Group of Members, because we have talked a lot about this content during the process of adopting the so-called Medicinal Products Act as well as the Pharmacy Act. In our parliamentary group, we have examined the fellow Member's proposal and have also examined the broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and we are also aware of the Government's opinion. Both opinions, both the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service and the Government, are negative. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the applicant proposes to adopt an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activity in a way that cannot be complemented by an authentic interpretation, since the proposed substantive amendment would amend the legal provision and extend it, which can only be done with a new law, and therefore the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not consider that such an initiative is justified. Following the interpretation of the Legislative and Legal Service, the National Assembly shall adopt an authentic interpretation when the law is not clear and sufficient. It is therefore an interpretation of a vague legal norm and consequently an intervention into a law which has similar effects as a change of law, but with an important difference in the fact that it does not directly affect the text of the law and cannot therefore be amended. Its specialty is in its special power, as it becomes an integral part of the law and has been in force since the date on which the law in which the authentic interpretation was adopted entered into force. Therefore, contrary to the amendment to the law applicable from the entry into force forward, it is considered to be retroactive. Since, in the present case, it is not a provision which cannot be established by established methods of interpretation, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that an authentic interpretation is not necessary. In its broad opinion, however, it also explains the reasons why. In addition to all the above, it also speaks or describes that it is unacceptable. Since you have all received the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we will not repeat it, but on the basis of this authentic interpretation in our Group, we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u49	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much again. In the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, we support the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, which clearly regulates the relationship between drug operators who, directly or indirectly through connected persons, cannot establish, manage or supervise legal persons who manage the activities of industrial manufacture of medicinal products, medical devices and other products to support treatment and maintain the health or activity of traffic in bulk with medicinal products and medical devices, or through capital investments or otherwise acquire or control the management of these legal persons or guide them. The initiative, as has already been said, came from the Municipality of Maribor. Today’s decision by the National Assembly is very important not only for this congregation but also for the entire region and for the preservation of this activity. The new Law on Pharmacy introduced a ban on vertical connections, which changed the ownership of the Pharmadent, who until recently owned the Maribor Pharmacy, and then transferred ownership to all the founding municipalities, among them, of course the largest Municipality of Maribor. As this also did not satisfy the legal conditions, the City Council of Maribor adopted a decision on the sale of the Pharmaceutical and the sale process is under way. By adopting an authentic explanation, both the Municipality of Maribor and the Municipality of Ljubljana would allow them to continue to be owners of Farmadent or LL Grossista, which we will support in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u51	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. This time, members of the Left will exceptionally support Joseph Horvat's proposal from the Christian Democrats to make it sound so funny. We will not support it because we would suddenly become neoliberals and change our views, but because what Member Horvat proposes is actually meaningful and is against the privatisation of public companies in the pharmacy. And the socialists certainly oppose this privatisation in the case of the Farmadent of Maribor and LL Grossist of Ljubljana, primarily for two reasons. First, because privatisation would also privatize the profits of wholesale drugs, and secondly, because privatisation would strengthen the oligopoly of two private companies, it is Chemofarmation and Salusa. Contrary to the complainant, we have tried to prevent privatisation in time. If you remember, we tabled an amendment so that public institutions can maintain wholesale companies. Although the committee of our proposal has not accepted, we remain convinced that privatisation can still be avoided in two ways: by transferring public companies owned by public pharmacies to their own municipalities, which was, for example, already done in the case of Pharmadent, or by buying back the Republic of Slovenia from both public companies. Since the proposal of a colleague of Horvat provides for the possibility for public companies to remain owned by the municipalities, we will vote in favour of an authentic explanation. Since an average citizen probably doesn't know what it's all about, let me have a shorter explanation. We have a new Act on Pharmacy Activities. This law confers privileges on concessional pharmacies and private wholesale companies, such as Chemofarmation and Salus. The new law allows concessionaires to set up a share to pay lower taxes. The coalition also opposed the amendment of the Left, which would have ordered concessionaires to pay the municipality a concession fee. Everywhere in our country where you perform a public service, you have to pay a concession fee, only in health care, but tell me how it makes sense. Well, a special story is still Article 26, which we are considering. Here the government has proposed to ban what is not at all problematic or only a problem for private wholesale companies. Private wholesale companies do not want public companies to buy drugs directly from producers because they would thus cut out the intermediary, thus making these companies, private wholesale companies, lose a share of the profits. However, such a move is certainly in the interest of citizens, because through public companies, the profits from drug trafficking can turn back into a health system and strengthen it. And someone will say that we have a problem here with fraud within public companies. Yes, it is true that Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic, for example, and his directors of Ljubljana Pharmacy, Marko Jakič in the first place, ran public pharmacies like profit companies and did not return surpluses to health care, they preferred to use them to reduce budget deficits. But these are deviations and such deviations can be remedied without the privatisation of public companies. Where the threat is real, however, there are private wholesalers who enter the ownership of private pharmacies in order to increase the sale of medicines. On the one hand, when they restrict competition, they can afford to increase the price of medicines and supplements, on the other hand, and on the consumer side they impose medicines that people do not need. Both contribute to raising their profits and the circle is concluded. Despite this extremely problematic dynamic, the government has proposed a law requiring public pharmacies to privatise their wholesale companies and has not prohibited private wholesale companies from becoming co-owners of private pharmacies. On a proposal from the Left, however, Parliament prohibited wholesalers from becoming co-owners of pharmacies. I remember because I fought here all morning for that amendment to be adopted and only SMC voted against this amendment. The reason for such a move is quite simple. The co-author of the government law is the President of the Chamber of Pharmacy, Miran Golub. Mr Golub is also the owner of two concessional pharmacies in Styria and an influential member of the SMC, so powerful that SMC overcame the coalition contract and public interest in favour of concessionaires. Since we do not deviate from the public interest, we will vote in favour of adopting an authentic explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u53	The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Erika Dekleva for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Pharmacy Act follows, inter alia, the principle of ensuring full independence for pharmacists in the performance of their profession. In accordance with this principle, Article 26 provides for a prohibition of vertical integration between drug business operators and manufacturers of medicinal products and possibly related persons. Many other European countries, such as Austria, Germany, France and Italy, also know such a ban on vertical connections. Its purpose is, of course, essential to the adoption of such a regulation, which absolutely prohibits vertical connections. This aim follows two key objectives of the law: to ensure the independence of pharmacists and to minimise the economic impact on decisions within the pharmaceutical industry. The controversy and debate on the prohibition in question was considerable during the course of the consideration of the bill. The undisputed decision to maintain a provision in the law that does not allow for the so-called vertical chain chain, regardless of who owns the pharmacy or who is the founder of the public pharmacies. The Ministry of Health, on a proposal for an authentic explanation, responds that in the two cases exposed, the Farmadent and LL Grossista are evident that the entities concerned do not satisfy the legal conditions. This is also the purpose of the transitional provisions of the law, which provide for a transitional period in which these two pharmaceutical producers can adapt to the new system. This means, according to the Ministry, that drug wholesalers must subsequently change their ownership structure during the transitional period. We must be aware of the importance of the institution of authentic interpretation, which allows it to be adopted when a certain standard in the law itself is not clear enough and must be supplemented or complemented with an authentic explanation. In a specific case, the intention of the applicant in Article 26 was indisputably clear, this is an absolute prohibition of vertical links and the purpose has been reinforced and confirmed during the adoption of the proposal in the stages of the hearing in the National Assembly. In view of the above, we do not consider that the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Article 26 is necessary in the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u55	Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. It will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! The New Slovenia Group proposed to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which deals with general restrictions for pharmacists. The authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities is necessary primarily for the reason that there are no doubts as to whether the Municipality of Ljubljana is, in the case of LL Grossist and the Municipality of Maribor, in the case of the company Farmadent, in accordance with the provisions of the adopted Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, may also be, in the future, the owners of those companies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out that the aim and purpose of the law is to completely prohibit the so-called vertical link, namely the links between pharmaceutical operators and manufacturers of medicinal products. In view of the fact that the municipalities are founders of public pharmacy establishments, the proposed transfer of the ownership share of the Farmadent or LL Grossist to the Municipality of Maribor or the Municipality of Ljubljana would not satisfy the legal proposals and conditions. Despite this position, doubts still arise as to the necessity of carrying out the sales procedure of Farmadent or LL Grossist, as legal theorists defend the position that a pharmacy operator is not a municipality by law, but a public institution, which prohibits only vertical connections to public institutions, but not to municipalities. It has also been pointed out that, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, it is not possible for the State to restrict the form of property to the municipality, since it could thus reach into the constitutional position of the municipality and thus into the very concept of a self-government local community. At the meeting of the parent committee, it was decided that the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities should not be confirmed or necessary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support the authentic interpretation and, of course, reject the conclusion that the authentic interpretation is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u57	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for adoption of an authentic interpretation will be decided on Tuesday, 24 in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 10th, in the framework of the votes. I also interrupt this agenda item as well as the 34th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Tuesday, 24. 10:00 p.m., 9:00 p.m. Members and members of the College of the President of the National Assembly shall be informed that the 110th regular meeting of the College will begin in 15 minutes in Room 217. I also inform the members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the 80th urgent meeting of the Committee will begin at 1 p.m. in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. But I want a nice weekend and a nice hello to everyone else. Goodbye!
