ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the course of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Vesna Ververga until 11:30, Erika Deklava until 4:30 p.m., Janja Sluga until 5:30 p.m., Jelka Godec, Ludmila Novak, Franc Laj, Franz Breznik and Primož Hainz from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we begin the session, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Respectable citizens and citizens, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members! People of personal memory are often perceived as the exclusive domain of our intimacy. Memories represent some imagination in which we lose ourselves in the maze of thoughts and the contact of our lives, happiness and sorrow, as well as the future and pastibility. But personal memories are actually carefully placed within the framework of the society in which we live, which allows us to call them, recognize them, and with them draw lines into the matrix of our being. But the essence of each society and thus its framework are in fact based on its collective memory, on an ideal and valuable basis, which enables us to create a meaningful and meaningful memory. And today is also a day of remembrance. Exactly 22 years ago, a shooting from the border of our country in Bosnian Srebrenica began one of the biggest tragedies on European soil during the last Yugoslav war. The triumphant walk of the Srebrenica bloodstains through the desolate and deserted streets of a once peaceful and peaceful place symbolized that afternoon the overture into the unimaginable cruelty that had cut into the history of the Balkans, Europe, the world and mankind as a razor. Today’s recollection of the National Assembly is designed to light the light of compassion, reason, and responsibility in these dark depths. It is intended for all the Srebrenica victims whose fate is today wrapped in the frightening images of green cloth that covered the memories of their blood vessels. It is intended for the survivors and for all those who have lost their loved ones in this crime, and for them and for themselves today, they seek peace and peace. And finally, it is for all of us to bring silver and other such horrors into our collective memory and to bring them to the craftsmen in the hope of serving them as an abominable reminder of the consequences of incomprehensible hatred. The time in which we live is before some tiny and dangerously inclined to slip into the already seen astray acts of unworthy people, so it is important that the grief, as Malcolm said in Macbeth, gets the words: “The pain that does not speak will be as a whisper in the heart of suffering, which is finally broken.” Such memories are our own to remember them with words and thoughts that hurt, cutting wounds into the realization that we are all human beings. That is why the memory of the cries of silver terror today echoes not only among those who managed to escape by their hair but also here in the National Assembly. We must never allow a whisper to cloud the memory of the horrors with which all of us must seek a path to a brighter future. And this one will only come if we take a responsible step against her. Respected and respected! Please remember the victims of the silver genocide with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Thank you. We're moving on to 26. INTRAVENCY, INDUSTRY AND TRAINING OF A PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR MORABIAL AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION AGREEMENT FOR THE PREVENTION OF DENARIAN PREVENTION AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM FINANCING, AND FOR THE FACILITATION AND EVALUATION OF THE REAL STATE FOR THE FINANCING OF THE POLITICAL ACCOUNTS OF THE CARRIAGE AND THE FINANCING OF THE FINANCING OF THE EFFICIAL INSURAL INSURAL INSURAL INSURANCE AND THE FINANCING OF TERIAL TREATY, THE FINANCING OF THE NATIONAL PROFIARIES AND THE FINANCING OF THE NATIONAL On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 34 Members and Members, signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, submitted a request for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry. For further explanation, I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u2	Hello! The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry, which takes place in matters of public interest, is to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to amend legislation in a particular area and other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction. The investigation is in the public interest, as the Republic of Slovenia, after its independence, is one of the small countries, due to major changes in the political and economic field or because of the open borders themselves, freed international trade and openness for foreign or international capital, encounters problems of organised financial crime that go beyond the borders of individual countries and has an international nature. Money laundering as part of financial crime is so widespread today that no country is safe from these phenomena. The fight against money laundering is increasingly demanding due to the globalisation of financial markets. The problem of the spread of financial crime in relation to money laundering is also becoming more and more urgent, and the risks in recent years have also increased various forms of financing for terrorism itself. The risk of money laundering or terrorist financing is the risk that a particular party will use the activities of a bank to conceal or conceal the legal nature, money or financing of terrorist activities or that a business relationship, product or service or transaction will be used or intended for money laundering or terrorist financing activities. The Republic of Slovenia must require the bank or its management and control authorities to better manage the risks before the misuse of the bank itself, for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing and unconditional action in cases of suspected suspected irregularities of illegal or criminal acts. These are the minimum requirements for the protection of the reputation of the bank and the value of state capital assets in the bank itself, the reputation of the banking or financial sector and the international reputation of the State, which is the responsibility of the authority itself. It is therefore necessary to determine whether the New Ljubljana Bank has developed and established an effective system to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and to implement comprehensively and carefully the legislation, the prescribed measures in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing and internal risk management procedures. The investigation should establish the appropriateness of the system to be established by the Bank for full and effective implementation by means of the legislation of the prescribed measures, whether the Bank carried out guidelines for the supervisor of the Slovenian Bank of Slovenia’s banking system, such as those of the Bank of Slovenia, and how internal risk management procedures were carried out themselves, what internal reporting and internal control system was like information support, such as cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia’s Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Bank of Slovenia, or whether the Bank carried out appropriate risk analysis in its own operations with the citizen of the Islamic Republic of Iran, or closely monitored their business activities and reported, in accordance with legislation, their payment transactions and reported or requested permission from the competent authorities for the implementation of restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran, which were taken by the United Nations and also the European Union. In addition, it is worth noting that today the Republic of Slovenia has, in all international comparative terms, an exemplary system to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. Nevertheless, prosecutions and convictions for money laundering offences were extremely limited. It is therefore necessary to establish the role and responsibility of the supervisor of the Slovenian Bank of Slovenia’s Slovenian banking system in the work of overseeing the implementation of the laws governing the prevention of money laundering in the banking sector, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the prevention of money laundering and other competent authorities for the control of money laundering and the financing of the activities of foreign security intelligence services abroad and, of course, of the very purpose of law enforcement authorities for the prosecution of alleged perpetrators of criminal acts, suspected money laundering and terrorist financing, and of the competent authorities for the implementation of restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran, adopted by the United Nations and by the European Union. It is also necessary to establish the role of information and the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions who have allegedly had or have been involved in these conducts or have been involved in their knowledge without taking appropriate action, or when officials have allegedly abandoned the duty or conduct that a person is obliged to do. This is because the rules in force and, ultimately, the codes of conduct provide for both ethical and political reasons. However, appropriate legislation regulating the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, the state and effectiveness of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system and the appropriateness of the implementation of restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran adopted by the United Nations and the European Union. The international dimension of controversial suspicions stems from restrictive measures by the international community against Iran due to the suspicion of carrying out illicit nuclear activities of the Iranian nuclear programme. Today, the Islamic Republic of Iran does not have nuclear infrastructure, technology for development or any sufficient information for the development of nuclear weapons and belongs to a group of countries without nuclear weapons. If it were acquired, it would also, of course, mean that this would increase the number of nuclear-weapon States and thus increase the possibility of its use, which could endanger international security. In this regard, it is worth noting that the United Nations Security Council has adopted several binding resolutions on the limitation of Iranian nuclear activity, followed by the European Union by the adoption of an appropriate regulation and adopted in 2010. This includes, of course, the Republic of Slovenia, which was therefore limited because it was also obliged to implement this resolution and therefore to take appropriate measures, but also to report it to the committee responsible. It is therefore necessary to determine whether funding for nuclear proliferation has been made through the New Ljubljana Bank and whether the activities of foreign security intelligence services abroad have been financed and whether the latter activities have been detected by the competent authorities and have taken appropriate action or acted in accordance with their respective competences. Due to the consequences of the alleged abuse of the New Ljubljana Bank by citizens of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the clarification of all facts and circumstances and the assessment of the actual situation and the identification of the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions is the best protection against the negative effects that the alleged involvement of the Bank may cause, since the unexplained circumstances, the alleged abuses of the bank for these purposes not only endanger the reputation and market value of the bank itself but also the reputation of the entire financial sector in the Republic of Slovenia, the international reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the United Nations and among EU Member States. Trust in the effectiveness of the activities of law enforcement authorities and ultimately trust in their democratically elected or appointed authorities. Therefore, we request the signed Members and Members of the National Assembly to establish a separate parliamentary investigation in the New Ljubljana Bank, focusing on the suspicion of suspected money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of foreign intelligence services abroad by the citizens of the Islamic Republic of Iran, against which the United Nations and the European Union have taken appropriate measures, which should take place between 2008 and 2011. Let me also answer why a new separate investigation. It is true that the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and on the determination of the causes and responsibilities of the banking system in Slovenia alone, which is investigating the political responsibility for the resolution of the banking system at the end of 2013, found controversial remittances of Iranian citizens, the Bank of Iran or suspected money laundering and terrorist financing and financing of the activities of foreign security intelligence services in the documents obtained. In doing so, it should be noted that the latter case has been dismissed for consideration by the Committee of the National Intelligence and Security Committee with a view to preparing a response report. However, at one point it assessed that it did not have the authority to prepare the report or conduct expected from it by the Commission of Inquiry, since it was limited under the provisions of Article 40 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence Services. Moreover, it does not have specific powers and enforcement measures that the Commission of Inquiry itself can carry out. In Parliamentary practice alone, the procedure carried out by the Commission of Inquiry identifies and assesses the actual state of public interest issues from a political point of view or the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. The potential consequences of identifying the political responsibilities of individual public function holders are ultimately decided by the National Assembly. This working body of the National Assembly, such as the KNOVS, cannot. Moreover, this cannot be claimed for the recommendations of the KNOVS to the Commission of Inquiry to continue to investigate this alleged washing case, since it is limited to the subject of an investigation ordered by the National Assembly. Therefore, if the Commission of Inquiry would want to carry out a comprehensive investigation into alleged money laundering, it should also focus on the contested financial remittances in the course of the investigation, as the subject of the investigation is determined only for written-off loans, cash guarantees, credit policies and the transfer of bad claims to a special company for the performance of bank claims, compliance with the applicable laws and regulations for the approval and management of credits and bank guarantees and the suspicion that there have been undetected negative consequences of such practices. However, the case of alleged money laundering cannot be included in these frameworks, nor has it created a bank hole, which, of course, every economist knows. In this case, however, the question arises whether the scope of the investigation makes sense, i.e. the investigation commission also investigates NLB, New Credit Bank, Abanka, Banka Celje, Probranka and Factor Banka, to focus on the bank's hole and thus to extend the already determined investigation to a specific case of suspected money laundering and financing of terrorism and nuclear proliferation. We are aware of this requirement that the latter could also be investigated by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the determination of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system, if only it had applied the first paragraph of Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation and proposed an extension of the scope of the investigation in the National Assembly, but for reasons unknown to us, it has not done so. That the existing Commission of Inquiry cannot investigate the subject matter as proposed, they are aware of both the SDS and the Commission. The SDS has already recognised in a protest concerning the new investigation addressed to the President of the National Assembly that the existing Commission is not fully competent to investigate the subject matter of a new investigation. This is even more evident from the functioning of the existing commission of inquiry, since in its investigations it refers only to the issue of Bank of Slovenia supervision, to the legality of the operations of banks and refers to its role in determining the termination of operations of NLB with a bank from the Islamic Republic of Iran. Which means that the existing investigative commission could only identify the possible responsibility of the supervisor of the Slovenian banking system – Bank of Slovenia. What, then, is the role and responsibility of everyone else? Only a new and separate parliamentary investigation will be able to find answers to all of these. While, in our view, both the existing Commission of Inquiry and the KNOVS have exceeded their powers in the examination of this subject, it is worth noting that the current determined investigation or the new Commission of Inquiry will not reject the hearings or discussions that have been carried out, but will do much to assist it in its further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u3	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u4	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The late-modern society, as we see, is characterized by numerous threats, financial threats and financial crime. That is why so much attention is paid to exposing financial crime, one small part of which is money laundering, linked to all other deviant practices. In particular, there are links to the social impact and functioning of its institutions. The government has a whole bunch of weapons at its disposal to detect this kind of crime, but we can see that these weapons are classified. This government and the proponents, in particular the proponents, have three key ministries in the hands of the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the President of the Council of State, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, whose components are many offices, agencies and others, which are key to the detection of financial flows. What does the opposition have? It does not receive information from all these institutions as I would have liked, so it is envisaged that the weapon of the opposition is a parliamentary investigation. In principle, it is the weapon of the opposition. It is very unusual for this weapon to be used by a coalition, in particular one party. This means that it indirectly recognises that the institutions in its power do not operate. What's the control, the control of the bank that's most important? I say that the success of the parliamentary commission, which already exists, has for the first time in the history of Slovenia received documents which reveal the full scope of this financial hole and financial fraud. And now we have a conflict of interest here: the already existing Commission of Inquiry, the KNOVS and the new Commission. Is it not the work of Members who are already on existing commissions that they cannot work or that they do not work? I therefore wonder, finally, what is the real purpose of this parliamentary commission of inquiry? Is it just propaganda — for we know that it is less than a year before the elections — whether it is trying to conceal certain facts or make the work of existing commissions more difficult? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u5	The President of the National Assembly, who I am in my own hands, gives the floor to the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Simoni Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will give three reasons for the Group of the Modern Centre Party to set up a new Commission of Inquiry. First reason. Money laundering through banking financial institutions and terrorist financing are two major wounds today. Wounds that have caused enormous damage to the healthy development of countries, to these subsystems, and especially to people. For this reason, it is enough to pay special attention to what has happened. Since there is a suspicion that this has also been the case in Slovenia during that period, it is our job to carry out our work and explore what has happened within each institution, each branch of government. Both of these two cases, both the suspicion of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, pose a threat to the stability and functioning of not only financial, banking, security and sub-systems, but are detrimental to the stability and reputation of the whole country. Why? Because this weakens and undermines the confidence of people, citizens, even in their existence. Second reason. It is also our political responsibility in Parliament to pay special attention to these topics and, of course, our responsibility. As a result of the request for the establishment of a Parliamentary Commission on alleged money laundering in Nova Ljubljanska Banka between 2008 and 2011, the scope of the allegations, doubts, indictances, even the allegations already made is high. We read about them in the media, and they have already been warned by colleagues in the investigative commission mentioned above, through their work, that these segments are exposed in their work so specific and complex that, according to our opinion, they require their own treatment. We are talking about events that could have had a significant impact on Slovenia's reputation in the international environment. We are talking about a banking institution that is majority state-owned, and we are talking about such large-scale financial transactions and supposed backgrounds that our citizens must be aware of what was going on, that they must also be given an explanation as to who, how and how they were known about during that period, and what the current policy was. Third fact. The customer of the modern centre – SMC is the only political party today that did not exist in the political space during the period between 2008 and 2011, and that is why it was not and could not be involved in these processes, without being burdened, unmarked. So it's drawn below the line. I believe that it is the responsibility of all of us, that we give our people answers about who and how, at the level of the policy at that time, was involved in these processes, of course, within our parliamentary powers, this is our responsibility and also our mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u7	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u8	Good-bye to all of you! The laundering of one billion dollars of money from Iran, which was then due to proliferation, due to a nuclear bomb project under the embargo, is a kind of achievement. No one would have believed in Slovenia a few years ago that such a thing is possible in our country, that such a thing is possible in the European Union, but it is. Three things about this story are on the verge of unbelievable. For the first time this could have happened. Secondly, that all supervisory institutes and institutions have been cancelled. Thirdly, seven years from what has happened, none of those who have made it possible to do so have made it possible to say one word that no one in the public knew anything about it, I am speaking of course of the Slovenian public, because the other was aware of it. A big hint came from abroad, including some newspaper articles published in the United States, for example, confirms that abroad they knew very well what was going on, those who actually decide about financial markets, finance, the price of money, all the key things. We didn't know that in Slovenia. Then these things came out in the paperwork. Two investigative committees, one which is in a way permanent, and one which has been specifically designed to investigate the banking system, have practically done their work on this. The first is an investigator for the banking system. She also referred to the commission I am leading, this is the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, and within our powers, we have brought our work so far. What did we find? It was discovered that money had gone from the bank under the embargo on the European Union's blacklist through the New Ljubljana Bank to some 9,000 400 addresses, something in the tax havens, something in the United States, a lot in Europe, 85 million went to Germany, that of course it had to be known in those key circles that organized the whole project, that you would not believe, just days after the government of Janez Janša fell and the new government of Borut Pahor was established, that is the left government, and a question of responsibility was raised. Of course, the case was carried out by those who were then at the top of the New Ljubljana Bank. But you know, it's probably one billion dollars that someone in the bank doesn't wash because they sleep badly one night, and then the next night they say, and today I'm going to wash a billion dollars, says someone ordered it. Somewhere is the source of the whole story. Since it is known who had a command on the left about there and had it at that time, it is also pretty much clear what would eventually be revealed. It is interesting, however, that the matter has some elements that could make an excellent criminal out of it. I told the press once that we could give something for this scenario. When you find that a key person who is one day, when the investigation was already under way, with an unknown delay there in 2011, decides that it was not about money laundering at all and that the matter is about to end, after just before the hearing in some case, falls off the ladder and kills the case gets a very interesting dimension. [[…]] No wonder someone at KNOVS said that you watch out for everyone who's investigating this when you're walking down the sidewalk so no truck will pass. A billion dollars is pretty good money. All of you who follow this story or similar stories know that fees are paid for it. Not the bank one, because in this case it was a direct injury, which is obvious. The management of the Ljubljanska Banka has just released the commission payments of those who have implemented them, even giving them a click. If you go to pick up a jury now, lay down, fill out a bunch of forms, they'll legitimize you, but there millions of amounts were sent through your home computer, sent by Racman Jaka to Miki Mouse or there to Russia went after Ana Karenina and so on. The people who had to do this directly in the bank, of course, protested, warned, but those at the top said, that's all right. The Anti-Money Laundering Office has been sweeping the Indices for months, asking whether the Money Laundering Office was in operation at the time or as a Money Laundering Promotion Office. And then, when the investigations went on, interestingly, no special methods and means were used, when it came to someone more on the right-hand side, months and months for some substantial amounts, which were the subject of suspicion, used special methods and means over and over, and here for a billion dollars, no one even thought of it. You know that, and then the whistle turns chocolate. Or chocolate wraps the whistle. It's that final phase. In short, someone in this country had the power to deal with it, because it wasn't the case that exactly a billion dollars went away, that was obviously settled. Someone had the power to block all investigative institutions, to make a fool of themselves and the citizens, from their work and from their laws. Someone had such power that for seven years no one had spoken publicly about it, and some journalists knew that. That's interesting. That's what they say. Someone stole this country from their citizens. And when the investigations are under way, and the investigations are going well, ladies and gentlemen, you will not believe this, it is almost not happening, but even someone from the coalition, this is the Vice-President of the German National Assembly, said publicly that the investigator for the investigation of the banking system and the KNOVS are doing their job very well, suddenly there is a proposal that a special investigator should be set up. And that's what one of the biggest ruling parties does. That's very interesting. On the one hand, it is a recognition that the ruling party obviously does not control the institutions. Because if you have authority, you have in your hands actual investigative mechanisms, and if you go into that then, in some way, when the investigations are already under way, the two committees I spoke about, even in the words of Mr. German, are doing their job very well, the investigations of institutions, the Special State Prosecutor's Office, the NPU, in short, are one for the other institution, which once turned themselves off. The second question, of course, is how well they will do their job now, when the same people who were in one position at the time are in other positions, but if public attention is enough public pressure, it will probably continue. But why is a new investigator suddenly? Previously, it was really interesting to listen to Mr Möderndorfer here, because for some of the statements he was saying, I was wondering if he had just come from the moon, or on his head, or what he was actually talking about. KNOVS, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services has decided to continue the investigation within its competence, to complete it and to prepare even a special report for the National Assembly itself. Mr Möderndorfer explained here a little earlier that we found that we were rude and that we were powerless or something like that he spoke. What's real has nothing to do with what's real is what the gentleman just made up. That, of course, says this investigator is attracted to her hair. What is really her purpose? Interestingly, it coincides with some of the other stories we have revealed during this period. One of these is that, in an informal conversation, one of the witnesses, in particular, is a staff member of the New Ljubljana Bank during a period at which the level and function of which he was unable to tell, said that he had information that Mr Farrokhzadeh had been brought to the New Bank of Ljubljana by Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic. During that period, Mr Möderndorfer and I were very close. And only this indict should be the reason that Mr Möderndorfer himself is excluded from this story. It's gonna have to be investigated, it's gonna have to be determined whether or not it's credible, but it's just this story that's giving some weird light to what we're witnessing today. I hope we all agree. Then it's interesting that we came across the name of the Minister of Justice. And look, what happens? The Minister of Justice convenes an immediate press conference – by chance, by chance itself – and declares that when he was at the KPK, they have received information and that he has given an application to the competent authorities. All right, we invited him to a public session. There the matter turned out to be quite different as the gentleman spoke at the press conference, you could see it, you could see it, but what's even more interesting, later, when we looked into the matter further, it turned out that nothing is really quite as it was said. That it's actually quite different. And then one wonders how it is possible that the head of the KPK has apparently violated all the protocol in this story, which was normal, justified and well established. How is it possible that the NPU also violated the protocol after a long time and even if things were regulated informally, a little by hand, that there were no relevant markings, did not properly protocol things, entered into a system that, as you know, allows the traceability of any entry information to where the story ends. The only thing everyone agreed to is that they broke the protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, when it came to a billion dollars! When it came to small amounts, everything was done in a legal way. And believe me, we're still going to do this, and we're going to investigate this, and we're going to get to the bottom of this thing on the committee I'm running. We will also draw up an appropriate report on this. But given that we have already discovered this, it is already happening, and it also points to the responsibility of individuals in this story, one wonders why this new investigator is there. Just for sowing fog? So nothing could be done? In order to make this an excuse to say that it is necessary to block the work of those who are already seriously involved? I hope that's not the case. But what I said earlier, I'm sorry, it's right this way. I hope you are all very well aware of this – this establishment of this new investigator is on the border of legal and certainly beyond the legal border. At the legal border because it doubles something that's already going on, and it's totally unnecessary. Interestingly, so far the legal services of the National Assembly have made this very clear, but in this case they have not. However, as far as the legal border is concerned, I am saying this precisely because this investigation is actually already under way. She's already given birth to fruit. The law enforcement institutions, which apparently switched off at some point in 2011, are back on track. There are also contradictions, interesting contradictions in the statements of individuals who were at the time in important functions and who are still in important functions today. This is said to be a matter of political responsibility. Now something's about to start all over again. That is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and that is not legitimate. Because it obviously has one purpose to blur the story or to direct it there, to the right data, to the right people, to the right reasons for the indescribable shame of Slovenia, which is money laundering, it would never have happened. This should be of great concern to all of us. Because if that is the case, and unfortunately everything shows that this is the case, today we are witnessing the abuse of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, where something is being set up so that nothing really can be found. This is very wrong, ladies and gentlemen, and everyone who has signed this is to reconsider and withdraw your signatures, because the investigation will proceed, I assure you. It will flow through the commission I run, through the bank system investigator. Where it is already taking place, and which you all know well that Mr German is right when he said it is going well. And we have a firm intention to bring it to an end, so to speak, to reports that we will then give to the National Assembly for its consideration and confirmation. The first purpose, and for that we can be particularly proud of those in both investigators or commissions, is that the institutions have already awakened. This is usually the final phase, followed by the end of the work of some investigators when it is established in the National Assembly. And now they've woken you up and they're already going. It is therefore a matter for us to do our work even when it comes to political responsibility and to examine, within our competences, how the mechanisms have worked, which have allowed at some point the investigation of billions of dollars of money laundered with the suspicion of proliferation, based on the suspicion of proliferation, to be stopped. This was also pointed out by foreign investigations, the people who turned, the jobs that turned to Slovenia, the Indics were as many as you want. And now it's about getting the job done. But we do not need a new investigator to do this, but we need what is so rare in this National Assembly, the collective will and determination to search and finish one such thing once and for all. Which means, on the one hand, that the relevant reports are drawn up and also adopted in the National Assembly after consideration and, on the other hand, that their work is carried out consistently and fully in accordance with the legislation and their competences, in fact, by the investigating authorities, the institutions established for this purpose in that country, by the criminal police and everything else. And of course, the prosecution will then make an appropriate proposal before the court, that the people who are responsible for this story, who have actually harmed this country, on the one hand, because they have committed acts contrary to legislation contrary to international rules, and in obvious contradictions, on the other hand, because they have released for a billion dollars the payment of commissions in a bank that was publicly owned, including the excess of powers, or, if you wish, reckless work in the service is a crime, obviously a crime. And all those who started this thing, made it possible and carried it out, actually respond before the time of justice. This is the most that we can all do together for this country to show, on the one hand, to the world that we are a rule of law, even if we are sometimes late and even if, in the middle of some point of policy, something that should never have happened is the functioning of the right. And on the other hand, to restore to the greatest possible extent the trust of people in institutions and in democracy as such. Because if that doesn't happen, then every such story is counterproductive. It's not just my opinion, it's also the opinion of Professor Tomšič, you can read it, it's now published. Why? Because if you reveal such stories and no epilogue happens, they lose their legal epilogue, then people just wave their hand and don't believe that such a country works normally. And that's the worst thing that could happen to the state. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore the common responsibility of all of us to search these things consistently and in fact to the end and to do everything in our power to express our expectations, if I am very diplomatic, of all those who operate in the system's investigative institutions, in the law enforcement authorities, that they, too, will do their job without doubt, without exception for all equally. For if it happens that, as has recently been with some hearings in another matter, they will be quite squeamish, thrown out again because they will either be obsolete or because someone will not do their job in time, then we will only be able to find once again that we have a country in which we have citizens of the first and second order. Citizens of the second order who try to explore and block us from doing so, unless it goes otherwise by establishing a quasi-investigator, and, on the other hand, that we have citizens of the first order, which is then repeatedly taken care of in institutions that they never answer to the law. That, ladies and gentlemen, would mean that the constitution is just a dead letter on paper. That's not what Slovenia deserves. It's your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, but it's yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All due respect! Let me start by saying that in the Desus Group we support efforts to clarify and clarify all facts about alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism in the New Ljubljana Bank. In reviewing the documents, the Parliamentary Commission investigating the emergence of a bank hole has encountered an unusual discovery, suggesting that the so-called banned transactions by the Iranian bank, which was subject to sanctions, were to take place through the New Ljubljana Bank for two years. This money is supposed to travel through the New Ljubljana Bank to various addresses, of which more than 9,000, which is a sufficient reason for all alarms to start ringing with the competent authorities, but not surprisingly. A number of questions are being asked. The transactions appear to have taken place with the knowledge of international security intelligence companies. Why didn't anything concrete happen? Was it perhaps the problem that the rules in force were overly relaxed at the time? There is information in the media that the story did not end until foreign banks began to draw attention to the controversy of these remittances. What did our regulators do about it? Maybe they slept a two-year winter sleep? It will also be noted in the eyes that the then management of the New Ljubljana Bank has exempt the Iranian Bank from payment for inflows to accounts. In doing so, in our Group, we automatically think of pensioners who pay substantial sums, for example, compensation for keeping the account and the fees for the payment of the bills. Because of the latter, many whose commissions are too high, they go into a long waiting line to the post office, where the polar state in the row can cheer up with a view of various glass cleaners, plastic flowers and tombstones. How do we explain to people, you know, in the banking world, is it a habit not to charge large customers fees as we could have heard? The problem is also that the bank's management is supposed to relieve a wealthy customer of the costs of the inflow of fees, as it is supposed to be a family company dealing with wholesale and consumer products. In doing so, we are convinced that everyone would find it at least a little strange to know that there are mountains of money coming from the account of this family company for purchases of artificial fertilisers and cosmetics. But regulators don't, they sleep in winter sleep. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we agree that an investigation is to be ordered to clarify all the facts and circumstances. However, it is equally important for us to determine whether the holders of public functions have done so in accordance with the rules in force. With all the information we've learned so far, it's kind of hard to believe in coincidences. We're just gonna have to get to the bottom of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Your Honor! Today we are discussing the request of a group of Members and a Member to determine the parliamentary investigation. According to the applicants, there is serious suspicion that the authorities of control and prosecution, as well as certain public function holders, have been aware of this and have not acted. It is a serious accusation that they have allowed money laundering activities in the New Ljubljana Bank to finance terrorism, the proliferation of nuclear weapons and even the operation of foreign security intelligence services, contrary to the sanctions adopted against persons from the Islamic Republic of Iran by both the United Nations and the European Union. It follows from the request for an investigation that the political responsibility of the holders of public functions should be investigated, firstly, for possible involvement in those activities, secondly, for the possible abandonment of due diligence in the management of state assets, thirdly, for the possible abandonment of the obligation to conduct and prosecute and, fourthly, for the determination of responsibility for the effectiveness of the money laundering and terrorist financing system. The applicants consider that an effective investigation of this issue cannot be done within the existing National Assembly committees, so that it is not appropriate or appropriate for this task to be carried out by the permanent Commission for the Control of Intelligence Security Services, in which the majority of the opposition so far, and not by the specifically established Commission of Inquiry, established to investigate abuses and political responsibility for the creation of the so-called bank hole led by the Member of the SDS and which has also identified evidence in its work for the activities that are being investigated. Despite the fact that the latter and the KNOVS, in view of the reports presented so far, are doing their job very professionally and well, the applicants consider that its competences are not broad enough to allow this case to be investigated in the context of their work. They believe that either the competences of the existing Commission of Inquiry should be formally extended or a new one dedicated solely to the investigation of this matter should be established. They chose a second option with their proposal. The role of the parliamentary commission of inquiry in modern democracy is extremely important. It allows us to gain a comprehensive view of the situation and its background. It enables the role of the rulings in the problem to be revealed and allows solutions to be adopted on the basis of its findings that allow for further abuses. Formal investigative powers allow the Commission to reach the bottom of the truth. However, because of their role, its leadership usually belongs to the opposition on a case-by-case basis. In view of all the above, the results of the parliamentary investigation are not self-evident. It takes a lot of work, patience, consistency and political skill to come to conclusions. Each Commission must be aware that its task is to explore the background and politically responsible for making decisions on this basis. The Commission has a responsibility not to go beyond these frameworks in its work and not go into the field of political accounting without a real basis. We therefore do not oppose the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry and the establishment of an investigative commission in the Group of Social Democrats. We believe that it is necessary to explore thoroughly not only the reasons and reasons but also, above all, the responsibility, political and professional, all of whom now have the shadow of doubt, that they knew of illegal activities, that they had neglected their duties, or even knowingly participated in their implementation or concealment. We believe that, in view of the demonstrated interest and seriousness of the actions recorded, it is appropriate to fully investigate matters, including political not only professional, criminal or indemnity liability. In doing so, we must make it clear that the only right address for such an investigation is the law enforcement and control authorities, the state investigative, judicial and repressive apparatus. It is only the fact that such accusations must be investigated by the National Assembly after more than seven years that this system has been concealed. In this mandate, the National Assembly has already set up an investigative commission to investigate the causes and political responsibility for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone. This Commission, which has encountered in its work, for example, which we are discussing today, is doing its job well. It is very important for us to conclude our work with a final report, which we hope will shed light on this complex period and clarify the causes that led to the bank crash. It is therefore important for the Social Democrats that the existing Commission complete its work with unaltered powers. We will therefore be the Social Democrats in further procedures, and this is important, against all attempts to restrict the workaround and competences of the already established investigative commission and, of course, encourage and support the work of the Commission to oversee intelligence security services. We want the parliamentary investigation to prove its purpose and not only to investigate, but also to investigate that it is not only an ambush, but also to adopt the final report with the answers to all the questions raised today. If the intention of the applicants is serious, this challenge will require serious work and cooperation with other parliamentary investigative commissions, law enforcement authorities and market regulators. The responsibilities and the workarounds that will be imposed on the new Commission by the investigation are large and only with hard work and much patience will work successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u14	Good afternoon, all of it, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Two key facts when the Commission of Inquiry for the provision of suspected abuses in the banking system actually found suspected money laundering. Firstly, the money laundering business took place at a time when Iran was subject to restrictive measures. Special measures have also been taken against these banks. At that time, the European Commission's special regulation came and said that nothing had happened since that moment. This gentleman was still doing these things. And secondly, on one occasion, it has been proven that this money was financed by the Iranian intelligence service, Mr Farrokh. This has been proven in the United States of America. Also on the basis of the media report of the American media, it can be found that investigations are now under way against one individual who has received money from this gentleman's account through the New Ljubljana Bank during this period. See, this was the great committee of the New Ljubljana Bank, the 10th largest, had traffic at the annual level for one Krko. And see if anyone can believe that no one knew about this, that she didn't know about this business, not the administration, that no one from politics knew about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't believe this. I do not believe that the management of the New Ljubljana Bank and that any of the then ruling policies have not been informed that this is happening. So it was also about money, which then spread out, which is another very important element when we talk about whether it was money laundering, whether it was about financing Iranian agitation around the world or not. And the deal went smoothly for two years. Two years! Despite warnings, for the first time, internal services within the New Ljubljana Bank, and for the second time, also despite warnings from foreign authorities, French, Italians, Germans and so on. And then, because there wasn't enough of this together, there was actually a rejection, a complaint about these transactions of this money. And it still hasn't happened. Our persecutors were disappearing, and things were moving on. What's the problem with these facts? Exceptionally, the first is that the law enforcement authorities have again completely failed, as well as in preventing the emergence of banking crime, which we have subsequently remedied by taxpayers. But the key question is whether the policy for this money laundering knew whether it was past the then ruling policy. This is a key question that the commission of inquiry, which is being set up, will have to answer this question, even at the sole responsibility of one party in this House, not even the entire ruling coalition. However, the task of the Government is now primarily to include law enforcement authorities, investigative bodies, in the re-examination of the case. And without saying anything, politics has nothing to do with it, politics has no control over justice, it has no control over the police. He's got it! The Director of Police is also a politically appointed person. If that were not the case, things would be very different. About the new investigative commission. If I finish. The Banking Investigation Commission is, in my firm opinion, the best investigative commission we have had in this National Assembly. The findings of the banking commission are also very sound, including reports, I hope that you have read them in the past, at least as far as Probank and Factor Bank are concerned, are the fruit of a very hard work and also not least cooperation between all political parties within the investigative commission. The new Commission of Inquiry should also be set up to work if it is established and is to act with the aim of doing something in the field of investigating money laundering suspicions in the New Ljubljana Bank. This too will be seen very soon, if not sooner, at the final report or partial report of the banking investigative commission, regarding the alleged money laundering that the banking investigative commission is already preparing. And then it will be seen whether the coalition will support this report or say, "No, no, we will wait for our report." For as far as I understand the investigation so far, investigating suspected money laundering by Iran's Farrokh, we can see that the possibilities for further research are already very limited, at least as we have gained through our investigative commission so far. However, political responsibility is essential here, which does not prevent the report presented by the Banking Investigation Commission from being supported. Then it will be seen whether the intention of the SMC is to do something in this area or to stop. And today it's too soon to judge. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Given that SMC Members have already collected enough signatures to order an investigation after automaticity, I will not discuss whether it should be ordered or not, but I will define myself by the order. Before I define myself to do that, I'd like to say two things. First, the government of Borut Pahor was in power at the time of allegedly controversial remittances from Iran. Both Pahor and his finance minister are also investigators in the investigation of TES 6. Therefore, in Levica we predict that they will defend themselves in this new affair as they defend themselves with TES 6. They will claim that they did not know or that they were not competent. In this regard, I think it is necessary to make it clear that if Pahor and his government have in any way participated in the controversial remittances from Iran, they have not only compromised the reputation of banks and states, they have also risked that the bank would be punished at a time when it had serious financial difficulties. So whether they were aware of it or not, at least they are objectively responsible if it turns out that the transactions were actually illegal. The second point I would like to draw attention to is, in the case of illegal transactions, the Belgian NCB, which was then co-owner of the NLB, is also responsible. Today, right-wing Members are likely to tell us widely that Iranian businesses are the result of NLB's state ownership. That theory doesn't hold water. In 2010, NLB was not really a state bank, but it was mostly a private bank. The Belgian NCBs owned 31% of the Ljubljana Bank, almost as much as the Republic of Slovenia, which owned 33% of the Ljubljana Bank. In addition, the Belgian NCBs also had a member of the administration, Mr Deroose, during their disputed business with Iran at the Ljubljana Bank, not to mention members of the Supervisory Board who were certainly informed about these transactions and could intervene. Therefore, if the operation of NLB was illegal, its private partner, namely the NCBs, is also responsible. I add that banking crime has nothing to do with state or public property. Cases of foreign private banks also prove this. For example, the German Deutschebank and the British Royal Bank of Scotland were punished for violations of sanctions against Iran. The French BNP Paribas had to pay almost $9 billion, which is the highest penalty in the history of American justice. In short, what I'm saying is that we can't use Iran's affair as an argument or an excuse to privatise banks because there's no exemplary link between state ownership and this event. I am now moving on to the content of the order, because it reveals the duality and inadequacy of our political class. I'm going to divide this into two points. Firstly, Parliament will order, on the one hand, an investigation into the suspicion of assistance in the proliferation of nuclear weapons and, on the other hand, Slovenia was one of the infamous 38 countries that voted against the ban on nuclear weapons in the United Nations last October. 123 Member States supported this ban. On the other hand, Parliament will now order, on the one hand, an investigation into the suspicion of terrorist financing, and, on the other hand, as in Levica, we always warn, Slovenia participates without reservation in the US coalition together with countries such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar, which unequivocally support terrorist organisations, and from Afghanistan to Syria to Great Britain, if you will. If I go a little deeper into these two arguments. Regarding the non-proliferation effort, the following should be said. We all know that powers do not oppose the proliferation of nuclear weapons for moral reasons, but because they want to preserve the monopoly on nuclear weapons. After all, in 2002 the United States withdrew from the ban on the development of missile systems and will spend a thousand 200 billion dollars on nuclear weapons in the coming decades after the programme adopted there. We also know that the rulers use double standards. For example, Iran was not even allowed to enrich uranium for civilian purposes, while Israel was allowed to develop nuclear weapons. And then neither the Security Council nor the European Union nor Slovenia imposed any sanctions against Israel. The Slovenian political class is therefore against the proliferation of nuclear weapons, but only when it is in the interest of the United States. This was also demonstrated on 27 October at the already mentioned United Nations General Assembly when it voted on the initiative to start negotiations on a complete ban on nuclear weapons in the world. The resolution was supported by 123 UN members headed by our neighbour Austria. Even Iran and Saudi Arabia supported it. However, Slovenia was in a group of infamous 38 countries that voted against the US guidelines. Our UN representatives did not even get enough back to abstain, as the Netherlands did, even though it is a member of NATO. Slovenia did not participate in the preparation of the agreement, which was approved a few days ago, on 7 July this year, nor as an observer. This decision is completely unacceptable and incomprehensible to us and is, after all, contrary to the Constitution, which stipulates that Slovenia must derive primarily from peace policy and culture of peace and non-violence in ensuring security. Here I ask representatives of the coalition and authorities: How did you do this in the United Nations? In short, we expect politicians requiring an investigation into the suspicion of aiding the proliferation of nuclear weapons in Iran to support efforts for nuclear disarmament at global level in the future, instead of defending and defending NATO's nuclear monopoly. With these reservations, we support the investigation and the commission of inquiry. We want him to do his work thoroughly, locate political responsibility and resolve this story. In advance, however, we reject any suggestion that the State ownership of NLB is responsible for this story. And once again, I call for an end to the fact that if we are against the proliferation of nuclear weapons, let us be in this position also when it is necessary or when it is necessary to put our backs on the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. As in tradition, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you very much. First of all, of course, to all the parliamentary groups to present their views and, of course, to their own opinions at the very request of the Commission of Inquiry. If we pull the common denominator, I can say that there is actually no parliamentary group that would disagree with the investigative commission or if I am more precise, of course, that the investigation is to be completed. There are, however, thoughts in particular in the context of who should actually carry out this investigation. And here, of course, it comes first of all to the fear that the Commission of Inquiry will be merely and only a political tool for bullying individuals, or even the fear that this way and with this investigative committee will even be rejected and closed, I will say, all of these outposts that are happening and are already taking place, as far as the case is concerned. Of course, there is a representative here, given that we all know and know that Mr Grims is very busy in individual cases, which is in fact nothing bad and nothing wrong, it is true that he is driven, but if, of course, it is within the legal framework, and here in particular we have a problem. On his own, he debated and interpreted the following concept many times in his debate in his position when he represented the position of his parliamentary group. He talked about the fact that on the oversight committee — listen carefully — they are conducting an investigation on the monitoring committee. The Monitoring Commission is not an investigative commission and cannot carry out an investigation but can exercise control. I like the fact that, of course, he confessed and kept repeating, he mentioned at least three times, "in the framework of his powers". He did not say, however, that this commission is very limited to be able to carry out all the investigative elements of the classic investigative commission and cannot actually do so. Which, of course, does not mean that we are angry or that we are in any way opposed to what the Commission is actually doing today. However, we have a problem mainly because we do not know what this report will look like, given that the concepts of the commission of inquiry and the monitoring commission are mixed. The other thing that seemed important to me was the need to answer it, especially if we were to see and be aware and ask ourselves when we were talking about competences — what are the powers of the oversight commission? If we were to compare, say, only with a commission to investigate the so-called bank holes would we see that they are radically different. Finally, the KNOVS Commission itself found when it received documents from the Commission of Inquiry, that it did not actually have jurisdiction and even imposed on the Commission of Inquiry, in the framework of its responsibilities, to continue its work. They mixed pears and apples, but in order to discover something, it doesn't bother me either. Far from it. It bothers me, however, that under this cloak we would actually continue something that would not actually turn out to be legal in the end. We are obliged to respect the Constitution in the first place, the Law of the Investigative Commission and, finally, the Rules of Procedure of the Investigative Commission. Once again, I agree, the Investigative Commission for the Banking Hole could, if it wanted to, and would have found out and would have taken appropriate steps, under Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Investigative Commission, extend its subject matter and carry out this task. But now I'm going to be a little more specific. The Commission of Inquiry, which I expect to arrive in the autumn with an interim report, which will cover one part of its current investigative work and will inform the National Assembly of what it has actually been doing. However, he has one more year to work ahead of him, and he has several banks to review, by the way, the NKBM is still intact, and of course he has a lot of work to do. That's why I advise her that it would be very good if she did this. However, it is a fact that we cannot and must not reject any action and the findings of this commission of inquiry. We can only thank her for what they've done so far. Definitely. If I move forward, Mr Grims has mentioned who can be infected and who can work on such an investigative committee. He even thought that I should be connected to the banks, although I don't know what he was thinking, because he didn't say anything, he even had to be expelled from the commission of inquiry. You're going to have to do a little more than that and bring some facts, facts, papers or anything. With the New Ljubljana Bank, you won't believe it, I haven't had any more than 25 years of accounts where they're charging me, but he's got them in Abank. [[…]] With this bank, I am neither business nor any kind of connection. However, according to this logic, if this is a problem, then none or I will say, many or most Slovenian citizens who have an open account in the New Ljubljana Bank, in fact I should not do anything else in the investigative committee, which is quite funny. But with any other connection, please come on in the day, happy to find out how to say I'm compromised or infected, see, I'm not doing anything anymore. You're gonna have a hard time pinning this on me. It's hard because otherwise we'd have walked away a long time ago and waved with these papers that I didn't know who I was working with. In some contribution that's close to your political option, and very much in your favor, I've read that I'm even a puppy agent. Well, this one, I gotta say, she's really cute. You know, such insinuations and connections and in some ways attempts to discredit individuals are ridiculous, but it is right to talk about them, it is right to open a discussion about them. However, it will be necessary to clarify these concepts more directly and more clearly. Mr Grimes mentioned an interesting sentence, which is very important, and I will only mention it to clear up the terms. He said an investigator like that could be pulled by the hair. That she is attracted to hair because she will be led by the largest parliamentary government party. Excuse me. Please remember the period 2004-2008 when you had an investigator named Mercator. Who had already led this investigator and made a request for her? There was a lot of controversy back then. You won't believe which government party she was then. Then they'd say that these investigators were all attracted to their hair. In this way, we simply cannot entangle and put everything into nothing. Whether we will respect the Constitution and the Law of the Investigative Commission and, of course, the Rules of Procedure itself, which speaks about it, is a matter for every political party. I'm sure if we're full of it when we talk and mention and refer to constitutional law, that's not enough. This should also be done in practice. Therefore, I suggest that those who speak out loud that you do not respect the work of the commission of inquiry run into disrespect for the Constitution and the law, so I propose that we avoid this rhetoric. In his presentation, Comrade Dobovšek said a few things that were in conflict with themselves. I'll get started. He was talking about how the largest political party is in the hands of the President of the National Assembly. Excuse me, the President of the National Assembly, any one, may not be in the hands of any party, but at least in the hands of the party I come from. And I can speak for our President of the National Assembly from this mandate that he has proved this several times. Again you have a problem with this comparison so you can say that this is one of the arguments why we should not have an investigative commission. Investigative committee. This term is used quite often, if it is an instrument of opposition. No, no, no. The Commission of Inquiry is an instrument of the National Assembly for the detection of political responsibility. And no one, but really no one in this country, any authority can detect political responsibility, except the State Assembly Investigation Commission. Therefore, of course, Mr Dobovsk's argument that other authorities should do so – sorry, the Government has nothing to do with this, because the Government cannot and must not determine political responsibility. However, it has other tools, the tool of course has criminal prosecution, repressive apparatus, police, NPU, the prosecution and so on, which, of course, in this case, is a specific investigation initiated in this mandate. But it's a problem because it wasn't before. And this problem, of course, is a question for all those who, at the time, had power in their hands and in the hands of these apparatus, and the problem of those who in the past have named and had key people in certain positions. And here we can ask ourselves who is right to investigate such a thing, of course, if we really want to reach the goal of what the purpose of the investigation is. Mr Dobovšek, as a great expert in this field, mentioned the next sentence that we have a conflict of interest. Yeah, what's that? He didn't say. He just said it was a conflict of interest. But he didn't say which conflict. I'd like to hear him say where this conflict of interest is. But something else is true. This is a lack of competence of the existing authorities, which have today discovered and tackled this case. That's what it is. And that is the problem, and that is why we must identify him as the National Assembly and, of course, give him all the support and legitimacy to do his job as soon as possible. One more little thing. Finally, he concluded with one sentence and said: “What is the real interest of the commission of inquiry?” Look at the real interest, I say, not only to Mr. Dobovsk, but I will tell all of us who are sitting here today in the National Assembly. By participating in the commission of inquiry, you will be able to monitor and actively participate in the commission of inquiry itself for the first time, and there you will see what a real political interest is, not least to participate in the final report, and to say very loudly what some of you are afraid of today. No one will go to the investigative commission because there is a political colour. None. And because of me, it can also be curly-colored.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u19	Comrade Grimes, I presume you have a procedural nature? There's no replica because you haven't discussed it yet. That was the position of the Group of Members. This is not a debate. [[adverts from benches]] Procedurally, Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. If you can only warn the distinguished Mr. Möderndorfer to only listen carefully when someone speaks. Because when I was talking about the commission being attracted to the hair, I was talking about the argument for her. A fact that's not comparable to any of the previous cases you talked about. That I then used the same term for both committees of the National Assembly, just one investigator and one who is only in the supervisory function, for both of them, so that it would be clear that I cut the debate short if every single time I call the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services in full, I have 15 minutes longer to make it clear what I'm talking about. And such an example that an investigation would have already been carried out even through two commissions, each within its competence, and then the third would have been established, and this case, Mr Möderndorfer, had not been established. Never. And since the argument is therefore strange and very unusually time-consuming, I did not talk about you having an account in the bank, but I said that it was then that she rounded up among the members of the information given by one of the employees that Mr Farrokhzadeh brought Mr. Zoran Janković, a Ljubljana mayor with whom you were undoubtedly connected during that period. And that an indica like that would probably be the reason for you to get out of it in a normal situation. Because it's a matter of credibility. The process itself is strange, the argument is, to put it mildly, unusual, and therefore I said it was attracted to the hair. With all these additional arguments that I have cited, however, my opinion is that, as I have said, this is not good and that it would be better if all of them combined their forces within these commissions, which are already investigating, each within their competences, i.e. an investigator for the banks and the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, came to an end with the best of their ability, produced a report and discussed and adopted in the National Assembly, in accordance with their competences, and, of course, did everything in their own way, everyone, in order to do the rest of them, whatever their responsibility, and what their task is.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u21	Given the spirit of the whole debate, I will only say that this has not been procedural and I will not go forward. Now I give the word "magic." Bojan Krajnc, prepare for mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! In my debate, I will not be able to go beyond being in a double role in this act, as a member of the Investigative Commission for Banks and as one who has also signed under a request for parliamentary investigation, and I will try to explain why such a seemingly schizophrene role does not, of course, exist. First of all, I must say that I have supported all the efforts of the investigative commission since then, of course, when we were briefed by the members of the commission on the fact that the expert has discovered this kind of strange practice of payment traffic in the New Ljubljana Bank in his work, and that, of course, I had no reason to oppose it at that time. It may be true, and here, of course, I agree with the proposer, under whose request I have signed that the bank inquiry committee will continue to lack the breadth, competence to conduct an investigation in all segments and all institutions concerned with this alleged money laundering, but of course, when I supported the conclusions on preparatory investigations and hearings, I did not think and, of course, today I do not think that we have significantly exceeded our powers when we decided that when the commission of inquiry found something, we are continuing to do so. But I can't imagine what would have happened if it had been known that the investigative commission had found something and turned its head away. That's part of the story. And the second part of the story is connected to why I gave my signature under demand. I mean, of course, in addition to all the reasons already mentioned here today and in particular in the position of the SMC Group, and in particular in the position or in the applicant's complementary explanation that we, of course, need such a special investigative commission. Of course, for the reason already mentioned today, I hope that we will hear more about it, especially from the mouth of those who are better acquainted with the economy, especially banking, and this is, of course, that money laundering has nothing to do with the core of the investigation carried out by the parliamentary commission of inquiry for banks, and this is through recapitalisation, i.e. with all its aspects, the reasons why it has occurred, and in particular by determining the height in relation to the methodologies for calculating this height. I recall the last attempt to explain why it should have been from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, where, of course, a colleague of Shircelj made an effort to make an attempt to explain the impact of money laundering on recapitalisation in the context of the proposal for a public presentation of opinions, which, of course, I did not support, because this was far from what should actually be found here in relation to money laundering. We have, of course, come to the point that, of course, it may have affected the balance sheet of the bank, but we have not heard any argument that this is linked to the level of recapitalisation. I must say that before signing the request, I also asked the economists myself, and everyone in line claimed that this was not related to the level of recapitalisation. The second reason that has been mentioned briefly is that, of course, there is still work to be done before the parliamentary commission of inquiry for banks. I am not sure whether or not I think that, of course, with the resources that we have, both time and personnel, and the work that we have yet to do in the future, we have to conclude in some way for the New Ljubljana Bank and to devote ourselves to the New Maribor Credit Bank, so that the parliamentary commission for banks can successfully and effectively, in addition to all this, deal with this issue, preventing money laundering in all its scope, and reviewing all of these institutions that have been associated with this if I leave a debate on whether it is even competent or not. To conclude my debate, I express my hope, in some way the political wisdom of the President of the parliamentary commission of inquiry for the banks of my colleague Logar, as well as of course the future President of the parliamentary committee of inquiry for money laundering, that in some way they will be able to achieve a federal transfer of the burden of this investigation from one commission to another, and that also because of the credibility of the National Assembly and in particular the credibility of the parliamentary commission of inquiry for the banks that have already been declared and are all actually sticking to it, they would avoid any future procedural complications, particularly that the new parliamentary commission of inquiry could well start its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u23	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare for mag. Dusan Verbich and Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word! When we are talking about a new commission of inquiry that will identify the so-called alleged money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank, I think we should look first at what we have, where we are and where we should go with this new commission of inquiry. The first thing that happened in the history of Slovenia is that the so-called Logar Commission, which determines the size of the bank hole, obtained from the Bank of Slovenia, even in the decisions of certain courts, all the documentation. This documentation has been reviewed and here it has detected money laundering or alleged money laundering, as you wish, in conjunction with the UN Regulation and the European Community on counter-terrorism, possible counter-terrorism activities and, of course, the suspension of financial flows with the Islamic Republic of Iran. This happened at the time and, of course, all banks in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia should take this into account, but apparently there is one and there were different transactions, namely, that a legal person from Iran opened a transaction account in the New Ljubljana Bank, then an investment bank from Iran reported about 790 million euros on public data, today we are talking a billion dollars, which is unimaginable for any European and global policies, and that is what the New Ljubljana Bank said for two years or one and a half years. So, we have all this stuff, we have all this paperwork, we have individual remittances. This commission has these receipts, where they went, at 9,000 addresses, etc. This was discovered by the so-called Logar Commission. On this basis, it is known exactly who was a member of the administration, who were the employees of the New Ljubljana Bank, who was the Finance Minister, who was the Prime Minister of the Government, who was the Governor. In short, political responsibility is on the palm of your hand. We have this and, of course, we have it in Slovenia, I am telling the public what this commission has, what has been said publicly, of course, we also have who were the persons who allegedly brought in certain persons from Iran, who signed the request to open the account, etc., in short, we also have all this data. Now we have just one idea, and today we also have a conclusion that we need a special commission, an investigative commission to find out, I think, probably the same, because today, or at least in part the same way, this commission will write an interim report where all of this will be written, then it will be seen whether this report will be adopted or not, or whether it will happen that it is not now a jurisdiction. On this basis, it will actually be seen whether there is some hidden purpose for the establishment of this commission, something else, perhaps something, to blur out everything we actually have. Here it comes now, I'm going to say this, in a way, the danger of that happening. The question is, what is the added value, what will be the added value of this Commission, what will it do more than the Logar Commission already has? What's she actually gonna do more? Here in these debates, which I have listened to since 9 a.m. today, it is also a matter of some political prestige. I think here people want to be a little bit prestigious and say what they're going to do and what they're actually going to do. Of course, it is also a little teaching, what one commission can do, what the Grims Commission can do, what can one other commission do, etc. If this is so that it is political prestige, ladies and gentlemen, then we do not need such a commission, so that, of course, someone will now discover something new. I'm actually afraid that there's a lot of this going on here and that it's going to make the effects so much smaller. I would like to know how this new commission will actually work, what timetable it will have before the elections, by then it is, and what it will find. One more thing. If this new commission really wanted something new, then I wouldn't focus on the New Ljubljana Bank, but I would focus on all the banks. Where did it ensure that other banks in the territory of Slovenia at the time or at any time later did not have the same, similar or any related matters in this regard? But if this new commission comes to this, the indication that this has happened in another bank, then it will be able to say, look, we don't have the authority, it has to be extended again, it has to be extended, the time will go and it will blur. I would like to say that there are very many elements for fogging and tacturing with all the existing authorities of the National Assembly. I will be very happy if that is not the case and if my doubts are unjustifiable and a report will come to an end where exactly the names and surnames will be listed, political responsibility and so on. Unfortunately, however, the way this commission is established, the time when this commission is being set up, shows that I have the right to doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u25	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u26	Yeah, it's an interesting discussion, buddy, who didn't actually say anything else, except that he's doubting his work in advance. I'd be terribly happy if you put as much energy as you put into doubt and suspicion and impartiality, and I don't know what else you'd rather invest in continuing with what they've already started on the logar committee. It would be more useful than everything you're saying right now. And once again, I warn you, you will sit next to me, you will have control and you will be able to participate actively, you will propose to the witnesses who will, in short, be able to participate in everything. And more importantly, you will be involved in the preparation of the report. So don't think that's what one person does, because if that's what they do, then something's wrong. But believe that to avoid what you said, “it’s strange that they didn’t propose to go to all the banks.” Yes, I'm sorry, the commission of inquiry is always established on the basis of some facts, not just that, but today I'd like to take a look at whether the money is laundering through banks. This is not the case, especially if you are investigating only political responsibility, because we have some other authorities in this country that have to do so. You yourself have found that certain elements simply did not play their part at a time when they should play it. And that was large enough to set up an investigative commission or make a request where it happened — in the NLB. Unlike you, if we find that there are indications elsewhere, we will apply Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation and immediately propose an extension of the investigation elements. Why didn't you do it, I don't know. We are.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u27	Replica, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Möderndorfer's response points to the fact that it is a political prestige, that it is that Mr Möderndorfer is focusing today primarily on how he will teach how he will speak in any way from a pedestal about what someone has done and what no one has done, as if he were the one who will judge now. Just what I said just confirms Mr Möderndorfer's gesture and response to where I actually have, if you want to, you used the word suspicion or doubt, however you want, I did not use the suspicion before, you added it a little bit. So that's exactly the response that shows that you don't know how to work for a thing here, which is that something is going to work out, but it shows that it's political prestige and maybe something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u29	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you. Those are your words, not mine. That's your conclusion. The investigation hasn't even started yet. I don't know what you're talking about. It's time to judge and judge whether this committee is doing well or not. But once again, I expect you to sit and cooperate on this investigative committee as the biggest opposition party, especially because you have a lot of experience.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u31	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Get ready for Mr. Joseph Horvat and Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! When I listened to the presentation of opinions, opinions and several colleagues presented in their discussions on this subject, I really need to ask the question first before I go to my debate: Why should I not use the investigative commission's institute? I don't understand. And then you can immediately develop this theory, all those who in one way or another hint at such insinuations, is the question of some reality after some activity to detect some irregularities or abuses. That's just my humble opinion. When I was preparing for this topic, I really looked at the magnetograms a year and a half ago, two, when a parliamentary banking investigation committee led by a respected Dr. Logar was established. I can say that interesting reading, and I can certainly draw a parallel in view of the progress of the debate and the presentation of views. Back then, dialogue between the two largest parliamentary groups – opposition and position. I think that everyone knows and clearly does not need to stress this, so, as it is said, I am indeed drawing a parallel from the debates of that time. Of course, it is typical and expected that proposals, such as the agenda item today, are still a matter of political prestige. Not in this context, however, when a respected colleague just before me used such a word relationship in a slightly different form for me. I myself am using this political prestige primarily in this direction, in which Member Group or political party will take over the post of President of the Commission, because this city also represents a bearable role in all activities, and thus does not neglect the other membership or the entire commission. A living proof of this is indeed the successful work of the President of the current parliamentary commission. But it is very important in this matter, and some Members have already mentioned, interestingly indeed some fact – with the existing banking parliamentary commission as well as with the one ahead of us to establish is the weight of the activity or much of the activity related only to the largest state-owned bank, and that is NLB. Interesting. Therefore, I must admit from my point of view that it is not difficult to understand the position or if I can call it the efforts of the governments, including the present one, that there is no willingness to intervene radically in the ownership structure of this bank. Clearly, the interests and influences of individuals who still have a bearing on such decisions are determined. Regrettably, such decisions have the effect of always issuing the bill to taxpayers. In this case, it also appears that the State, in this case those who manage the State, does not appear to be responsible owners. That's the only logical conclusion. And that is why I am of the view that the country's withdrawal from the ownership of companies in which, for decades or years, the political interests that go first and foremost have been intertwined to the sole detriment of the companies concerned have been intertwined. Makes sense. This is followed by the invoices issued to taxpayers. And on this occasion, I'm going to point out the thesis that I've been doing a lot of times, and I also said that every time I get a chance, I'm going to expose it. For this 5 billion-dollar bank hole are simply co-responsible members of the administration, supervisory board in state-owned banks, bank regulator Banka Slovenije and external and internal auditors. And if I touch and allow myself to put the issue of responsibility also into the content of this proposed parliamentary commission, where the estimated value of money laundering is as much as a million dollars over NLB, I firmly believe that responsibility on the part of the administration and the supervisory board of the same bank is, it is said, the administration that operated the bank during these banking transactions. Why is it my firm view that I can speak this way about responsibility? For the first time because of the provisions of the Law on Companies, the Law on Banking, the Statute of the New Ljubljana Bank, its internal rules, the position of the Bank of Slovenia, many other things would likely be found, clearly and unequivocally committed to the law of the bank. In addition to those mentioned above, if I may say so, the legal basis for the legality of business, we also know about the financial institutions, a principle called the prudential expert, which is even more strict and binding on financial institutions, and is exclusively applicable to the authorities of those institutions. And this principle of a prudent expert is indeed more substantial than the principle of a good master, which applies to all companies that are generally not financial corporations. Secondly, all banks in the Republic of Slovenia have been obliged to comply consistently with this law since the adoption of the law on money laundering prevention. Moreover, the banks' administrations have even adopted and I think there was none and there is no one today who would not have included the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering as well as internal rules on this topic. Bank administrations adopt internal rules and also bank administrations are committed to implementing and complying with their own rules. Interestingly, when we talked about these bank holes and even responsibility, we almost did not talk about another important fact whether the members of the supervisory board are really responsible or not. One of the key elements, which is a very good legal basis, is the registration of members of the boards of directors in the court registers of the competent courts, where the responsibility of the legal person is clearly recorded. I don't want to talk about my own company statutes. If I can get a little bit more connected to the proposal for this content of the commission of inquiry, I must admit that I have a dilemma as to whether the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank is optional, if you recall Kosovo's so-called forensic bank experts and then two other advisory companies for which over a million Euros of taxpayer money have been used, these experts have also been engaged to determine the possible controversial transaction of a million dollars, the so-called money laundering. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Billions, I'm sorry. Or is it also possible to identify such transactions that are outside the specific case? The question here is logically whether this money may have been spent on the so-called cleansing of business records. Here, if I speculate a little, I refer to the Commissioner-designate of the current parliamentary commission of inquiry, who has made it very clear on one committee that the documents have even been lost in individual credit maps. Indeed, the question is whether such experts have been paid to do so. And if I go back to the beginning. Why the responsibility of the administration? Simply because of the fact that every administration, including the administration of the financial institution, is obliged to respect the regulation of processes and activities in order to ensure that its own documentation, which is legally bound to feed or that it has a storage, is not lost, let alone something is always destroyed. I think that these are also things that are in a certain direction of these proceedings of the parliamentary investigative commissions, and it is only right that these things should also be made public. Otherwise, any activity of the National Assembly or Member in the direction of detecting possible abuses, whether in the public property management function or in the governance function of the State, I must admit that I am very much in favour, and this does not conflict with which policy option this proposes. And as I mentioned in the introduction, it really depends very much on who the chairman of this commission is. And, as I mentioned, so far the activities of the banking parliamentary commission have only convinced us to do so. I am not ignoring the importance of the other members, but the President is the one who is in some direction a driving force. In my discussions, I have also highlighted several times the following issues related to such matters, and I will also be on this occasion. In the area of banking economic crime, I am literally criticising the prosecution, because the proceedings are extremely slow, or these movements, or whatever the excuses are, in the direction of the complexity of legislation, procedures and, ultimately, that there is no so-called case law. However, I miss that this same law enforcement body simply does not apply those provisions of the law, the Penal Code, as well as the Law on Economic Companies, where we know the crime of abuse of the position and destruction of business documents. And I don't understand why law enforcement authorities don't use the so-called institute to reverse the burden of proof. On the other hand, the law enforcement authorities, as well as parts of the Ministry of Justice, are convincing us in particular that due to the so-called illegal practices and inequities in Slovenian courts, much education and time is needed to review and identify guilt. It often refers to Iceland. I must admit that all those who refer to Iceland, for example, are both the public and the Members of Parliament. Since the State of Iceland has taken a completely different approach to solving such cases, which were identical to those in the Republic of Slovenia, because in Iceland the government has literally brought all state-owned banks to bankruptcy and resolved them through bankruptcy proceedings. The matter was concluded in a few years, and it was very successful. Clearly, however, it was not appropriate for those who caused such a situation. We have a completely different approach and we have what we have. And before these events, their criminal legislation had already identified the signs of a banking crime, this so-called abuse of positions typical of banking crime. And what's more and more in your eyes. How close could the neighbouring country, with its representation in Slovenia, literally get the Hypo Bank within a few years for the protection of the responsible person. It is interesting that Slovenia's legal order is based mainly on German, and it is not a secret that the vast majority of Slovenian legislation is practically copied from Austria and Germany, but in these cases more and more legal gaps are being identified and this is the reason why persecution is not allowed. If I analyze all this after three good years, I increasingly agree with individual initiatives and proposals by the opposition that the authorities of persecution and the judiciary of the authorities in the area of economic banking crime somehow, I allow myself to say that they are using this system in a way that does not lead to effective prosecution. That is why I believe that if this does not change, that we will literally have to listen to these initiatives regardless of political affiliation and ensure that there may be a need for a full conversion on this matter. I hope that the parliamentary investigative commissions will also encourage law enforcement authorities and the judiciary to see some significant movements take place. As it is said, I support this commission of inquiry in particular in order to identify the reasons for the specific state of money laundering and to clearly state the names of persons who have not acted in accordance with the rules applicable to money laundering. Here I expect the names of the persons, administrations and supervisory councils and those individuals who run individual institutions. It's over. However you will understand me, it is good that next year there are new elections, regular elections. Especially because of the abuse of state-owned banks in the Slovenian banking area, it turns out that there is no strong will regarding the persecution of persons who have practically made it possible or caused it. I speak here on the side of all governments, the NPUs, the prosecutions as well as the judicial branches of government, because their reasons, the excuses that things cannot be implemented more quickly, I can say, are not relevant and are also excused. And another time, why it's good to have an election. If this is not the case, then I suppose or somehow find that another commission of inquiry will most likely have to be set up for the responsibility of the holders of the functions, namely, to determine the liability of state-owned banks for the loss of business documents, documentation as well as for the occurrence of the causes of the incapacity of members of state-owned bank administrations. I therefore also support this establishment of an investigative commission in the hope that there will be a significant shift in law enforcement authorities and in the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Dr. Ange Logar and Mrs. Eva Irgle ready. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In most of the segments of the debate, I agree with the distinguished colleague Dusan Verbič. This was a sober debate between someone who knows how the banking system works or how it should function, especially when he spoke about responsibility in terms of corporate governance, the responsibility of administrations and the responsibility of supervisory councils. It's like it's not. It's all beautifully written on paper, but then, as someone who's not a cop, as someone who's not a prosecutor, as someone who's not a judge, is a politician and, of course, also a taxpayer, I can clearly say here that the effectiveness of the prosecution of bankers is on the dog, and here's the problem. We can have another 100 parliamentary investigative commissions if the effectiveness of the work of law enforcement authorities is not what taxpayers expect, and here is the problem. I also agree in the part where my colleague Verbič spoke and drew attention to a poor ownership structure. Here this government does not have the will to change the ownership structure of the New Ljubljana Bank in particular, it has no intention of privatising the New Ljubljana Bank. Over the last few days, we have all cried out in one voice that international law must be respected, that European Union law, Pacta Sunt servanda, must be respected. What about the agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? It doesn't matter who she was, things are binding on this government. There's nothing here. Ah, but here we're not covered by Pacta sunt servanda, we're gonna do a little slalom. And that'll keep us warm. That'll keep us warm for a very long time. Here, too, the question arises, more broadly, almost, you will say, of philosophical nature: Why is Slovenia so impossible to reform? Of course, you will understand why in the opposition we say whether you in coalition or more precisely in SMC would rather direct all your knowledge, all your experience, all your efforts 24 hours a day to reform Slovenia. Now's the time. And you say, "No, we don't care about reform, we care about the parliamentary commission of inquiry." I have no objection to this parliamentary commission of inquiry, an act has been tabled according to the rules, according to the rules, according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, and I do not have any problems here. Well, it's true that people are asking me how much this new investigative commission is going to cost again. I'm trying to calm down and I say, look, but democracy, parliamentary democracy costs. And I'm also being asked, and I'm also trying to calm down and defend our colleague Jani Möderndorfer, because people already see him as the new president and ask him how much his salary is going to go up. I say, no, look, because this is a minimum supplement, but it's not about that. But people ask that because they're thinking. And of course, I'm also thinking about whether we have resources in the National Assembly, we have experts who are already burning up because they're good, working, whether we have money in our budget now. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Prepare to be Mrs Eva Irgle and Mr Marko Ferruga. Here you go, Dr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you, Chairman. Let me begin by leading an investigative commission for which, say, the coalition did not want to contribute its signatures at the beginning of this mandate. And if that were the case, we would not be discussing the alleged money laundering of the epic dimension in the New Ljubljana Bank today. However, since then this Commission, because the vote against it could not be publicly defended, has received support for the vote in the National Assembly and now has a desire to set up another commission to deal with some part of the problem. When I first heard that the coalition wanted to establish or set up a new investigative commission to deal with money laundering prevention, I was kind of satisfied because I said, well, we're covering the way, obviously the coalition will also focus more on this issue and expand the work cycle of research or investigation. However, when I looked at the mandate of this commission of inquiry, I must say, I was a little surprised. I think the debate was already in one of the replicas, but in preventing money laundering, focus on one person alone, but it's a little too narrow. We have five state banks and we have many opportunities for alleged money laundering. In the mandate of this commission of inquiry, which is being established today, there is only one case, the case of this Iranian citizen, and nothing else. I can say that we have encountered the suspicions of other alleged money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank in an investigative commission. Why are you reviving the investigation diapazone but not spreading? If a new Commission of Inquiry is established, it is likely to be set up to examine this area more broadly, not more closely than this Commission of Inquiry. If, after you run into a new suspicion of money laundering, we are here to explain the extension of the mandate of this commission of inquiry, there will be another loop. Why does the coalition not propose extending the mandate of the existing commission of inquiry to further address the suspicion of money laundering payments? Answer your questions. I don't see any real explanation. On the other hand, as far as this inquiry committee is concerned, we, as it is, think that colleague Vrtovec has already said in the introduction, we have largely completed our work here. The interim report is being prepared and will be supplemented by hearings of hidden witnesses and some other statements and documents. Then, in September, this will be on the agenda of the National Assembly, an interim report. It'll weigh what's the reason. Either you confirm that or you say no, because we have a new investigative committee, we will not decide on this partial report. The first cracking of copies will be on the investigative committee itself when we confirm this interim report in early September. We have taken a decision to draw up an interim report. Now we'll see what's happening. And it will also show how sincere that purpose is to set up an investigative commission. If the adoption of the interim report is to be blocked at these two stages, then I do not think I need an additional discussion or an answer. As far as the establishment of an investigative commission is concerned. Of course, this is constitutional jurisdiction, it has constitutional powers so that anyone can establish it. But let's give it some thought. With the signatures of the coalition Members, a new investigative commission shall be established. The votes of the coalition MPs confirmed the government, confirmed by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. My question is, what have you done in this regard? In particular, the Minister of Justice was very well informed about the matter. Secondly, with the votes of the coalition, mostly with SMC votes, a new state prosecutor, Mr Šketa, was elected. Is that the non-trust you chose? The Director of the GPU, the General Police Administration, was appointed by the government or under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. Is this a mistrust to the Secretary of State in this appointment? Because you've been in power for three years, you've had all the data, and nothing's changed. And I don't trust SDH to have that kind of footage in Nova Ljubljanska Bank. See, Head of the Business Compliance Sector, Mr Praprotnik was very well aware of this case in 2011. Very good. Well, there's a record of that. He became the head of the complication, the business compliance sector, came to the New Ljubljana Bank. My question: Has he dealt with this problem? No, it's not. He was quiet. He helped keep the darkness to the ground. And when this topic broke out, his subordinate staff wrote: “Do not be afraid, the matter is outdated.” Center for Business Coherence! This bank is state-owned. This bank is being rehabilitated by taxpayers. And they were consumed with the staff that were aware of the matter, and did not take any action. Now the question is, we're going to ask SDH something about how they operate and how they control the banks that listen in this way and in this way. Question. I think that this is more urgent and faster than the possible establishment of an investigative commission. But once again, look, the purpose of this investigation will be checked very soon. As regards the lack of jurisdiction or Mr Möderndorfer's opening presentation, I must respond here. Mr Möderndorfer said that the Commission of Inquiry had exceeded its mandate. If you ask the Wizard, I believe he'll confirm it. If you ask Mr. Kramar, I believe he will confirm. And if you ask, say, Mrs. Payenk, I also believe she will confirm it. But this is heard in the National Assembly by a fellow Member – sorry, yes, what should you do when you examine documents and come across the suspicion of money laundering of billions of dimensions, what should I do and say, it is not my responsibility. I don't think I have any proof of that. I think that's what law enforcement has done, and the Bureau of Money Laundering, but I'm sorry, I won't do it. I'm not committed to not knowing what kind of circle of capital or anything else. I am bound to the electorate, to those who elected me to the National Assembly. And look, they have to be accounted for. It is everyone’s duty to face such a problem to get involved. And the Commission of Inquiry was involved in the participation of all the members of the Commission of Inquiry, all the parties, with the exception of one. We will do this part of our mission, but from here on out, this is a matter of law enforcement. If the law enforcement authorities don't do anything in this case, it's not time for another republic, it's time for a third republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare for Mr Marko Ferluga and Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Look, we've fixed the banking system twice by now. In this country, we have a multibillion-dollar bank hole, and it also shows a great deal of abuse and illegal practices in the area of banking. Of course, this should be handled by the police, the prosecution, the courts, but we know that the matter is quite different. Most of the stuff the police did that went to the D.A.'s office doesn't come to an end in the courts. So far, we have only one case where someone has been convicted of banking crime, but I'm afraid that this judgment will fall and will not be legally binding. However, we have a commission in this National Assembly led by Dr. Ange Logar, who, of course, performs that important work. Today I wouldn't even be told about this washed-up billion if the commission led by Ange Logar didn't find out. After all, even though the Modern Centre Party now has all the levers in the executive branch and could explore and seek responsibility through these levers for this money laundering, it has decided to set up an investigative commission on money laundering through the New Ljubljana Bank in the case of Iran's Farrokh. To simplify, the purpose of this commission of inquiry is therefore to clarify all the facts relating to a billion dollars of laundered money for the purpose of financing terrorism. The second point of this commission of inquiry, as I previously understood my colleague Möderndorfer, is to determine the involvement of public officials in money laundering. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is undoubtedly the biggest affair in Slovenia alone. Of course, it is right to get to the bottom of it to find out who is responsible for such a situation, especially because Slovenia has a great reputation abroad because of this affair, as this affair also has its international dimensions and consequences. But it is clear exactly what time this affair took place. We know who was in political positions at the time, who was in banking positions, who was the chairman of the bank's administration, who was the Prime Minister. Apparently these people knew about this affair. They knew, but today they're moving, but they're obvious, so it seems, even actively or otherwise. Otherwise, I don't understand how you can wash a billion dollars, an amount that's not small, it's big without seeing it before or before. I just can't understand it. In all these areas, both in politics and in banks, there were people belonging to the left political option. As a result, my respectable colleague Möderndorfer, we sincerely doubt and sincerely doubt the purpose of this investigative commission. Because if you were serious about this commission of inquiry, you would first request the resignation of the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice was when this affair took place, namely, the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and knew through the whistle-blower money laundering, but he said that this was a matter that he, as chairman of the Commission, could not deal with, because it was not in his jurisdiction, because it was in his competence to cut power from 15 years ago. It's, say, his decency. But the fact that someone was laundering a billion dollars of money that was financed by terrorism is no longer within their jurisdiction. But it wasn't just that. The Minister of Justice told the public today, as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, when he had to react, that he had filed a criminal complaint with the competent authorities on the case. It turns out we caught him on a lie. The Minister of Justice has never filed a criminal complaint. This has been said by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the National Investigation Office. Yesterday, I asked the Minister of Justice about his integrity, which was very much launched, even because of this case. I asked him when he intended to resign as Minister of Justice because he was obviously, deliberately, cheating and lying to the Slovenian public, and he said he didn't, because he gave some paper. What kind of paper? Comrade Möderndorfer, you will be leading this investigative committee and I think it would be appropriate for the Minister to be asked earlier to show this paper, which is certainly not a criminal charge, because the criminal charge must have an official note. So, first of all, you have to clean up at your own doorstep. For this reason, I believe that this commission of inquiry is just a play for the public and a cast of sand into people's eyes. Because you could've handled this by now. If we had an honest purpose, then today we would really demand the resignation of the Minister of Justice because he failed to do his job and lied and deceived the Slovenian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting from me, too! I'm gonna have to apologize today for maybe having one little reading badge today, but that's because I've been trying a little bit to get certain aspects, and then we can talk about these things. When we talk about this phenomenal NLB Irangate affair, I think at least three aspects need to be characterized, looked at and then discussed further. So point one, Iran's position during that period. It is the fact that Iran has been on the list of restrictive measures due to proliferation, which is weapons of mass destruction, so we are in the clear. In Iran, it was prohibited to sell goods intended to produce weapons of mass destruction and to carry out financial transactions intended for the purchase or payment of such goods. Iran was therefore able to buy and pay for vegetables, fruits, frozen chicken, and not goods intended for the manufacture of weapons. As far as is known, this company has been ordering money to pay for vegetables and frozen chickens, i.e. food and no weapons to keep us clear. As far as all publicly available information is concerned, the company which opened an account in NLB was registered in the British Virgin Islands and the company’s owner was of Iranian origin but with the British passport. From this point of view, it was not an Iranian society, nor an Iranian citizen, if we are to be precise. Point two, the work of Slovenian state authorities. There was a lot of talk about that. As far as it is known from the public, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia should start its activities on the basis of a request from a foreign money-prevention office. To the extent that it was understood from publicly available data, the Slovenian Office first received an application concerning the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The Slovenian Office has pointed out this to this foreign office that it can start its activities only if it is money laundering or terrorist financing. That is the law and also international standards. When he received a new request in this direction, he began his activities and informed the police of his findings. It is clear from the statements made by police representatives that they have obtained data from Interpol and Europol, and because there was no specificity, attention has been given to the matter, so the police have not identified any signs of any crime. Next. It is understood, however, that it is now understood that the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office has opened a pre-trial procedure in this case. Representatives of the NPU also stated that they have now begun to collect notices on this matter. My question here is how has it been that no one has seen the suspicion of a crime for seven years, any crime, if any, had the information provided by the RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, and the new circumstances that have fuelled this decision? And now we're going to this last phenomenal point, point three, NLB business. Also in the business of NLB, the question arises why NLB did not report money laundering to the Slovenian office, but did so only after the Office requested certain information on this account from it and only after the Bank of Slovenia also exercised control. The interpretations that botched such NLB decisions should be examined. Really. I doubt, however, that they did what they did without a proper legal basis. We can therefore first discuss whether the bank has acted legally and whether it has done so in its business decisions. At this point, of course, we do not have enough data to take a smart stand. If there has been a violation of the laws, if any other circumstances arise, the competent institutions will have to act. However, when it comes to bank business decisions that may be such and different, and here too can be debated whether or not they are legal, it is the business of the bank and the following supervisory board of that bank and other bodies that would now do so. As far as I can see, the main problem in this matter is that we are now talking about money laundering in and through the NLB, and so far no one has told us what the previous crime is, from which this amount, which was supposed to have gone through this account to the NLB. That's what this is all about. At least those of us who once worked in the criminal service might be a little different. We still don't know who or what crime he committed or where this crime was committed, so that these illegally acquired financial resources can be handled through this account. Thus, some general money laundering is discussed without any concrete indication, so it can be said quite simply that it is a flat-rate claim without an appropriate legal basis. Watch out! We must not forget that all this money has gone abroad, to European countries and perhaps to the United States. So we can easily conclude, as it is concluded here, that these allegedly illegally acquired funds were actually washed in these countries, even in the US and also in European countries. But isn't it strange that none of these countries started shouting and screaming when that money ended with them? This seems incredible to me, but we are more papal than the pope, most of all the countries of the European Union that have the same legislation. How is it that none of these countries has exposed this same problem as we do? We know this public laundry without Dash or with Dash very well to do. If we insist on this claim that it was money laundering from Iran, how is it that a state delegation led Iran with the President of the State in order to enter into business and make economic contacts? So, to the country that is supposed to be involved, I reiterate, in some of the allegations of money laundering. Another question is how our companies can do business in Iran if we are so happy and very strongly criminalising it right now. It would also be worth asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs whether it has received any questions on this matter from Iran or from foreign companies. At the moment, this case is being dealt with by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and by the parliamentary investigative committee for Mr Anjet's bank hole. In addition, the forecasting procedure is open. So there are three things going on here. And now, as a strawberry on cream, another parliamentary investigative committee has been set up to deal exclusively with this matter. If we put everything aside and in view of the fact that there is no one so far, not even those who persisted in the claim that money was being laundering via the NLB, said or explained what crimes were supposed to have been committed before or from which crimes the money was intended to originate and where these crimes were to be committed, the only meaningful proposal I see is that all these commissions, the prosecution and the police are called upon to carry out their work thoroughly and to conclude it as soon as possible and to make their findings clear to the public. Only then will we know what was wrong, who was responsible, and we will continue to demand his responsibility. At this point alone, I do not know any actual situation, we have partial, incomplete information, flat-rate allegations of money laundering that place in an unusual light not only NLB, but also our country, our organs and everyone else, not to say anything. Once again, we must not forget that all this money has gone abroad and that, with these allegations, I stress, at this point unfounded, we claim that the money has been washed abroad, where vegetables and frozen chickens have been paid, i.e. in European countries and allegedly also in the United States. No matter how the bank decided, and that's her legitimate business decision. That's if you let me compare when you get to a car dealer and say, I'll buy one car, okay, we'll give you interest or we won't count it to you, or you come to that same dealer and you say, "I'll have a thousand cars, they're probably different interest." I am thinking that when this businessman came to our bank, it was said, look, I intend to do big business here, on the left, on the right, and we can consider some normal economic issues – because he probably can't go beyond his business. However, the fact is that if they did not charge the entry tax, but they certainly charged the transactions that went on, as is known abroad, the bank is said to have charged its services. And if we're being honest, there was probably everything that was transactions to other banks, more than these, and I think there was some kind of business decision here to make. Now that we're talking so widely and cheerfully, I think we're doing some damage to ourselves, because I think this gentleman has already closed this account and he's going somewhere else, I don't know, to Russia or I don't know where, and he's opened the account and he's going to do the same. And all these other countries, European countries, will be quiet and happy, business will be done and their countries and their businesses will serve there. The other thing is this, I think that at least some of us know that services with such operationally interesting persons are certainly working to ensure that they are monitored and also communicate with them on these matters, even on such matters, I will say, “critical” countries, citizens and so on. There must have been some discomfort during the services, too, about what this Slovenia is doing here now, shouting and screaming, when everyone else is kind of quiet and following this matter in a professional way. And we're spreading all of this in one way or another, as we know it, but it's our business. In the end, I have a personal aspect to tell you. As I say, I do not agree with so many investigative commissions alone because I do not see any added value, except for something political. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. Be careful. You just got a call from an ex-criminal for economic crime. If criminals are telling you such things about economic crime, you do not have to ask yourself twice why in Slovenia the persecution of organised economic crime is or is not taking place. I think it's going to be necessary to review the list again of those 9,000 accounts if there might be a colleague on one of them, otherwise with some Iranian name, but I'm sorry, but that was across the border. This was uttered in mind, without any basis, as if there were perfect dilettants in this national assembly. Until you see the list, please don't talk about chickens and so on. Maybe the chickens are getting out. I'm asking you, has anyone ever paid you 350 thousand euros to buy real estate? Someone from Iran, you? Are you? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'll tell you, there were thousands of people who got the money that way. These aren't frozen chickens, that's the money on the bill. And there are also cases where some people received EUR 50, 60, 100 000 on the account, but because of suspicion they rejected the payment themselves and advertised and forwarded the money back to the bank from which they acquired it. Now, I don't know, knowing how to prevent money laundering and terrorism, these two are united in the same legislation. You don't need a prior crime for terrorism and proliferation. It's criminal in itself. You don't need a prior crime for terrorism. When you look at some of these lists in the commission of inquiry, you will see very many suspicious individuals receiving funds to buy keys and similar things dealing with interesting activities. So there was still a little research, and I'd ask you not to talk like that and not apologize. But I think what you've pointed out is true. But what were we doing in Iran, and why were we so kindly accepted when the delegation of the President of the Republic went there? And that's the question, and that's the second dilemma. And one more thing. The money didn't come from other countries. He went exclusively, in that period at the end of 2008, 2009, 2010 from Slovenia. And when he came from Slovenia to other countries, that money was clean because he came from a European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. If only respectable Mr Ferlugo and anyone else who might have been discussed in this way can be reminded of the fact that I also said at the press conference – all of them who were interviewed by the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, including the representative of the criminal police, including him, agreed on one essential point that in this story, I quote, “all the elements of money laundering have been given”. Next time you discuss it, keep it in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr Vinko Gorenak, to be prepared by Mr Janko Weber and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I have to say, I've already suspected this story a little bit, but now I have a reason and I thank Mr Ferruga. You've justified the matter. The Commission is required to clarify the situation. Thank you very much for your reasoning, but I'm surprised by your profession. You're saying there was money laundering. No, that's where the trials took place! In many countries, like France. Secondly, you say that no country does shout and scream and that money has been accepted there. That's not true. That's not true. Hundreds of transactions were rejected and were not executed. And you say it's their fault, not us. That's not true, that's not true. And they didn't just scream and scream, but they did the trials, they did the criminal proceedings. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, of course. That's what this committee knows. You have to read the results of the commission, not the Ljubljana Diary. The Ljubljana Diary writes about those vegetables and those stories. Greenery, and food is a typical sign of money laundering — yes, logically, if you get a thing from Iran that can't buy weapons, it says there are apples and pears, so you'll be even more careful. Don't you think? And if, for example, the address book Ana Karenina, at home in Paris — isn’t it interesting? Maybe Mickey Mishka is the recipient of this money, but you know. That's unquestionable for Ljubljana, so it was suspicious for them? When you were talking about the pardon, how nice the story is that they got excused from the Incoms, it's like when the money comes in here. Last time I was in the Ljubljana Bank two months ago, I took a five-euro ticket there. I had to pay for a financial transaction for five euros, and my employee says, "Ten euros, ten cents." I said, "Wait, why ten euros and ten?" He says, "Five euros and ten cents is a transaction." Five euros and ten is a transaction because I've earmarked five euros for someone else. This gentleman, who ordered a billion, had nothing. Nonsense. However, there is something else to be said about that predictive act. In the case of terrorism, as Logar has already said, no, but it must be investigated, not sent three or four dispatches to CEPOL. That's not enough, that's not enough. And sign below and say that the matter is ad acta. Besides, I'm asking Mr Möderndorfer, I think he's still in the back there, and the coalition. Let me base the following. Why do you think that the 8,000 500 police officers that you have under your command — the SMC minister — have the chief of police who you set up — why can't 200 prosecutors with the boss that you've put up, and why can't 900 judges with the boss that you've set up investigate this case? And why can Jani Möderndorfer? He can do it. What kind of James Bond is he now? Does anyone know how to answer that? I repeat, 8,000 500 criminals, police officers and 200 prosecutors and 900 judges, you have everything under your command. So they can't do it, and Jani Möderndorfer can do it. But you know how to answer that? In any case, the Commission is politically composed of Members, a member of the Commission can be anyone, including those you have there only to raise your hands, and now you think they will investigate you. No, from now on, at least for me, and I will use this strictly in some of my records, we have a commission to investigate the bank hole run by Dr. Logar, and we are likely to get a fogging committee led by Jani Möderndorfer. That's probably how it's gonna be. But if you can answer my previous question – perhaps you will know why you will be successful, criminalists, police officers, prosecutors and judges will not – I will be able to change my mind. But I doubt you'll convince me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkrajšek and Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Under the Act on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigations on the Identification of Supposed Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, Nuclear Proliferation and the Financing of the Activities of Foreign Security Intelligence Services abroad in Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. I would like to draw attention to the fact that more than we are setting up a commission on this subject, this work is less likely to be actually done. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have also taken a decision in an already existing commission to review irregularities in banks due to the emergence of a high bank hole that this part of money laundering will also be an integral part of the interim report, and we can talk about the fact that the Commission has been actively engaged in this problem, so somehow I cannot find that reason in this process of setting up a commission that would dictate the need for a commission to explore something that the existing commission is investigating. I think it would be very important that we do not duplicate the number of commissions where money laundering is so exclusive, and I think that the National Assembly would take an extremely important step to prevent money laundering and, of course, to prevent corruption if it simply asked the Slovenian State Holding to order the revision of the New Ljubljana Bank for this particular case. However, how can we expect the Slovenian state holding company, led by Mrs Lidija Glavina, who, last but not least as the President of the Slovenian State Holding Board, appointed herself President of the Supervisory Board of Telekom? So it controls itself, determines for itself what it will pay, and when we look at the text of the articles in the Slovenian State Holding Act, we find that Chapter 6 which speaks of measures to strengthen integrity and accountability and to identify risks of corruption, the conflict of interest – which I have certainly mentioned in Lydia Glavin – and the abuse of internal information in managing the country's investment, ranges from Articles 54 to 67, i.e. Articles 23 of 25 talk about so-called corruption. Obviously, even within this law, this extensive chapter is simply not being used or implemented. I would therefore point out once again the problem which I am trying to point out publicly again that if the administrator of this common property of all citizens and citizens does not perform his duties or even performs his tasks in such a way as to question his integrity, we as Members of the National Assembly request the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding – this is our responsibility – because they do not exercise control over the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Board. When we accept this, be 100%, that such procedures as in the New Ljubljana Bank and also in many other cases that we discover begin to be detected and, of course, to be sanctioned, and that we can actually talk about doing what is within our competence as Members. In this case, however, I have the feeling that we are actually using our powers in a way – the Rules of Procedure make it very clear that if a request for submission is made after the commission is established, we should actually set it up. The only problem is, as I have already pointed out before, whether this does not mean duplication and thus impeding the successful work of the existing Commission. But I think it would be better to focus on something that is our responsibility today, and to give a clear signal that we want to actively act against corruption in Slovenia, against the destruction of the economy as a result of this in Slovenia, against the emergence of poverty as a result of this and also against the creation of false elites, who are always trying to influence some laws with this lie, so that they can combine their false elitism into the future. These are measures that I think would – in particular – take measures to call on members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, if they do not perform their duties, to call back. I think it would be a time to agree on this, and it is not an opposition or coalition at all, but it is the responsibility of all Members and Members, and I really hope that we will come to this point and also call for a resolution because they do not, in my opinion, carry out these supervisory tasks – because of the specific case of Lady Lydia Glavin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, the point of financial dirt, as I may call it, is in the Republic of Slovenia. Perhaps in the beginning, thank your colleague Dr. Logar for his knowledge of this filth, his effort, and his corrosiveness. I believe that future generations will live more easily than ever before because this effort will eventually fall to fertile ground. We hear many times when we talk about bank robberies, that someone isn't competent, or that he didn't know. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have been in this call by the National Assembly for a little over three years. Not so long ago, of course, this is not the matter of this National Assembly, we have listened to one inquiry in technical examinations where someone or one group took a bribe of between €10 and €20. And when those who found out did, they calculated that in about one month he earned another salary. That's over a thousand euros. Of course, all thanks go to the police, the prosecution, the courts for doing this task with excellence. I've read about the punishments for these perpetrators. Some have done social work, some have had to pay it back financially, some have received a probationary sentence, some even serve it over weekends, but all the institutions we have in Slovenia have done their job. This means, well known were those who did this, the police exposed them, gave them to the prosecution, and the judge did her job. This is certainly what all institutions want to do in all segments of Slovenia. And today, when we talk about this billion, which was brought in one way or another in 2009, 2010 in Iran, of course, then back to Slovenia, we also know the employees. There's no need for any special efforts. The current president of the Republic of Borut Pahor was then Prime Minister, the interior minister was Katarina Kresal, and Justice Minister was Aleš Zalar. All known, and probably no one was competent or knew anything about it. When I listened carefully today to the views of the parliamentary groups, especially Dr Bojana Dobovška, who three years ago urged citizens and citizens to join the National Assembly, and received about 5,000 500 votes. Strong fence of SMC, he's no longer in this party today. Today we are listening to a lecture by our colleague Jani, whose entire group received only 3,000 votes. What do I mean by that? Probably means to swim in local waters again today. I mentioned earlier that Dr. Logar was drawn to the surface by this filthy stain, and by the establishment of this commission, this water is again boiling. I promise myself, because I doubt this investigative committee, because it will not be possible for it to perform its work in the canal water, nor is it intended that when it is set up, when it is known, I myself, as a member of the National Assembly, will announce myself as a member of the current President of the State, the then Prime Minister, and I will ask him, on behalf of those who elected me to the National Assembly, whether he knew about this lumperia, for this filthy stain. When I get the date, I will let the public know, and I will let the Slovenian public know when I get his answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mr. Dolinshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I must say that it was not possible for some of the previous debaters to have talked about some of the already existing findings, information, obviously they did not have the appropriate ones. What did the paper say, what did it say, and that's another thing. If we are going to conclude today and we are going to figure out everything about what happened, how it was, then we don't need an investigative commission, so I would say about the future debaters who are going to be behind me, a little bit of seriousness in this work. On the table, we have a proposal to set up a special commission of our own to find out and link all the circumstances surrounding money laundering with a remittance from the Iranian bank. I think we need to focus here on three things. Firstly, we are talking about money laundering and terrorist financing. Secondly, we must return in 2009, 2010, and also in 2011, talking about the political responsibility of the executive, which I find difficult to believe she did not know about these things. It'll show up in the investigation to see if she knew or didn't, now we can just figure out, think. And the third thing is the work of institutions at the time, both law enforcement authorities and other institutions at the time. I must say that I have no reservations, I was not in politics at the time, nor was the SMC at the time, so I can say that I support the establishment of a special commission to investigate this subject alone. As a member of the KNOVS, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, I must say that something has already been done, and I think all this can be used. Of course, I am talking about the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in the part where it can go in accordance with the powers of the Commission. But quite a bit of work was done. Last but not least, you need to know how this came about. The president of an existing commission, Dr. Logar, who is investigating a bank hole, has just gotten to that information, forwarded it, and the story began to spin three months ago. Clearly, this information has been a mystery in recent years, another question being asked — those who knew it and did nothing. That's another question. In fact, when we talk about the sum of one billion US dollars, we ask ourselves about the first responsibility, the summit of the New Ljubljana Bank, the then administration, the supervisory board, internal control, the Bank of Slovenia, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, law enforcement authorities, intelligence services and so on. “Great”, they obviously did not perform the functions they were supposed to perform. Since it's not about 100,000 euros, it's about ten times the amount. Here's the question, and I think all this surveillance has obviously been canceled. A person may think that he has canceled unhappiness or that someone has forgotten something, but in some parts one may also think that it was a conscious act of some, obviously – at least I think so – I must say again — first of all, the president of the administration or administration of the then NLB. Also, the fact that the inflow commission had been abolished, however, was credited to the Ljubljana Bank for about a billion US dollars and the commission was simply abolished. You can think about a lot of things and think. Let's just drop it. As far as the Commission is concerned, I think that it is essential why its committee is now, even though the existing Commission of Dr Logar, which is investigating the bank hole and where the subject of the investigation is simply written-off loans, cash guarantees, lending policy, transfer of bad claims to the Special Bank Claims Management Company – this is the focus of the existing Commission, which has done its job very well so far, as far as the results and known information are concerned by this Commission. However, when it comes to this new commission, there will be a separate parliamentary investigative commission focusing the investigation solely on suspected money laundering and terrorist financing, proliferation and financing of foreign intelligence services by citizens of the Islamic Republic of Iran, against which the United Nations and the European Union then adopted restrictive measures to be taken during the period 2008-2011. This is how this is about a narrow circle of purposes for this new commission of inquiry. I believe that the Logar Commission has much more to do, but before there was an interim report that was supposed to be in September, but I believe I can't say, but I believe there is still much to do, that there will be much to be learned, and I don't think there will be any need to worry that work will be run out by the end of the term, respected by Dr Logar. I have no problem, I think it is right that this commission is specifically set up, that this commission is focused on this story alone and that there are appropriate conclusions, responsibilities, in the first place political responsibility. In this is what we used to listen to, the law enforcement authorities and so on, they cannot politically – but they have not done their job properly, and here I am joining in with these opinions. Which means that the key thing for these commissions, too, will be the political responsibility of those who knew about it, but they obviously knew some of the political back then that each of them had its own position. I think it is right for us to exchange views among ourselves, to help if we have the right intentions. I think we all have them, personally I don't have any problems. Barabbas, crime, dishonest business, and, above all, state money, this was not a second story, it was not a story of injury — probably some part of it — by taxpayers, but it was an unreasonable doing of great dimensions. I think we're all here on the common denominator, we want to see the names, the names of those who knew about it at the time, and they're responsible for it. I'm sure. Interestingly, then the law enforcement authorities came to certain conclusions that there were no results leading to the initiation of the predictive and criminal proceedings. It is interesting now that when the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services has started to do certain things on this issue, they have started with the information I have, I don't know if it holds, including the police and other law enforcement agencies, to work again and to open up this back-to-back story, to investigate. If that's true, I don't know. If not, I think that the Commission's intention to control intelligence and security services has already been a clear signal, in some parts, that it will be difficult to remain hidden. However, to conclude, the Commission of Inquiry will not deal with great breadth, so that it will be able to really devote itself only to this narrow work, this story, and I am sure it will be composed of members of various parliamentary parties that we are here in, so obvious Right, because we can look at each other, it is purely in place and so I expect. [[…]] So any preconceived suspicion, preconceived, I don't think it's right. Let's give this committee a chance to start working. It is practically one year until the elections and my assessment is that this Commission could complete this year, but I do not know if the Logar Commission will be able to complete its work simply because the Logar Commission is likely to have a very wide spectrum, and I believe that its work is not easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. You know, with regard to the debate of individual coalition Members, I have to tell you that you are very funny. How concerned you are today with the work of the Logar Commission. How much work this committee has to do, how hard it's doing. This Commission is working successfully, this Commission is working well, and we will have an interim report back on the table soon. It's important whether we accept it or not. It is essential that we help this committee to complete its work by the end of its term of office, or that you, with ad hoc commissions, will in fact prevent individual interim reports from being adopted because you will say that certain things are still in progress. So please don't be ridiculous. I think the Logar Commission is working so well that we don't need any new commission. Otherwise, why should we really need it? The purpose of the Commission is to identify political responsibility. And Mr Dobršek, it is the prosecution that should now pursue the politically responsible. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, Dolinšek. I was wrong. I'm really sorry. However, persecution should be decided today on the politically responsible, as the Logar Commission has already come to a conclusion of political responsibility. Why the new commission today, Your Honor? You've got scissors and linen, you've got everything, and today you're only supposed to get a few tips, and the case would be over. In democracy, you have everything well mentioned. Today, you have the Minister of Justice, who was then Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, he knew nothing, then he was rewarded with the role of President of the KPK, and he learned the problem through the whistle-blower. But did you hear him call a press conference? I remember him calling her, I don't know, but for individual cars, it's like that. These seemed very important to him. There was no press conference here, and he didn't say publicly that he had moved on. Only now that political responsibility has been established is political responsibility known — what commission? What other commission do we need? Today all we need is the pursuit of those politically responsible from that time. Don't talk nonsense like Ferlug's colleague was talking about fruit and so on. Do you think the Swiss closed this account because of the fruit and chicken sold over it, or what else are you up to today? The matter is quite clear. You're only setting up this committee to protect your personnel. This is your only task, for the findings of political responsibility are clear. We know who was at the top of the bank at the time, who was at the top of the judiciary knows who was at the top of the prosecution. The prosecution, at a meeting that we considered to be justice, has clearly answered the question that they have never heard of it. We know who the Minister of the Interior was, we know who the secretary was, once again, Mr Klemenčič, and now you will explain to me that you will find political responsibility. Perhaps you really need this commission because those who are supposed to care about it today are the police, the prosecution, and the judiciary, of course, will not be following their superiors. Don't fool around, don't make a fool out of taxpayers. One year before the elections, you will set up a commission that will now find out things that are already known, because you have already put them in, in fact, all beautifully transparently, according to the example of the fact that it has found the Logar Commission and then the second. It is only necessary that those who are called upon in this country do their work. And they didn't do it at the time, and they were only working to hide things under the carpet, because the matter is now resounding, and you're awake, and "now we're called to save it." I don't know. Do you have to work for the D.A., the police, I don't know who? [[…]] Disengage the minister and you will really show that you care about this country and that you are against money laundering. He knew about it, and he didn't do anything. When you drop the minister, then I'll be the first one to raise my hand to identify anyone else individually if you think anyone else is so much involved and can't be seen from these reports. But the matter goes to the top, unfortunately also to the President of the Government, so it is time for those in this country who are paid for their functions and institutions to start working and not keep busy with change and what is really worth nothing. This isn't just about this, this is actually about identifying a bank hole. Six million were not covered, and six million were so placed in beautiful sight because there were no commissions. Every citizen has to pay for it! What else do you need? Ask what the Praprotenik is doing in the New Ljubljana Bank, because they are your supervisors. Ask what Kos is doing in the New Ljubljana Bank because they are your supervisors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First, I must say that the establishment of this commission reminds me of the commission led by Milan M. Cwickl. I think there's someone sitting here who remembers this very well. This gentleman was appointed and this commission was appointed only to cloud the normal thinking of the Slovenian man and the Slovenian electorate. I think it's happening the same way this time. And look at Mr Squeak, who at that time, after taking this bastard down, won the prize of becoming a member of the European Court of Auditors, and for this he received a net salary of EUR 22,000 per month. Why did I mention that? It's interesting that Janie and I talked a month ago, but because I said he was running in five different parties, Jani said to me, "No, I'm in four." I said, "Then I apologize." He said, "But I probably won't run anymore because I'll probably go abroad." And now look, look at the fraction, interesting combination. That's an interesting combination. And I think that the Slovenian people should only create their own opinion on this. But I think that's very important, very good to say. Today, my colleague Verbič said one thing very clearly. He said that even those who run the country do not do so as they should. So they're running the country irresponsiblely. Mr Verbic comes from a coalition party and I have to tell him, a hat down, every honor he has to say this, is what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says, and the stallion holds the coalition, does not do its work as it should. If there had been this money laundering in the years that this shit happened, the government, which is this left-wing falange, which has been dragging ever since, which is still somehow involved in SMC's party, how entangled — the real government in the right place, would have been investigated and the result came, and, of course, all those who participated here would have been punished, just as required by law. But that didn't happen. Now that, of course, the Logar Commission, my colleague Angie Logar, has discovered this mess, this commission, which, as has been said many times today, is working very well, very well, has come to this result and has found out what Ange said today, I will not repeat all of what he said, how many of the accounts money went to. This has happened, it is practically everything — at this point the police should immediately take over the prosecution’s story and we should run things on our own and no longer need any commission. None, since everything has been practically brought to this point. Everything has been brought to this point. But here it's just an attempt at blurry, it's all about taking things away from this committee and then seducing it so that those who are – we know what system those involved come from – hide because it's a year before the elections. And you do a lot of shit again, and you stop the Slovenian people from knowing the real truth about the real criminal mafia group that works and works in this country. Dear colleague Jani Möderndorfer, you have said today that, under Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is also possible to extend its functioning to this committee. Why wouldn't a SMC like, you know, some ethical, moral party do that? And let those people who can be trusted, who are worthy of respect, for whom it is proved, if you go now among the Slovenian people, that they, in Anžeta, his commission, people believe and are convinced that they are going the right way and that they will come to the right results. They've proven their point by now. To help spread this story and that this committee will take this matter to the end. And to extend this part of the investigation to the rest of the banks. Today I heard through the debate that not only has money laundering occurred in the Ljubljana Bank, but it is likely to have occurred in another Slovenian bank. This matter is expanding and we are really getting to the end of this mandate. And then we'll see if the generals who are on the prosecution, who are on the judiciary and so on, are even involved in this mess. I think it's the only way, the only fair, the right, the right path, and so please let SMC do it, and then we'll believe you. Then we'll believe in your ethics and morals, otherwise we won't. What you are doing is definitely what I said is a blur and an attempt to prevent the Slovenian people from knowing in time what is happening – so it is not in time anymore, but at least before the elections – it was happening and how things were going and who is in the background of which evil society that keeps this country in check. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are constantly trying to expose this criminal association, and it is this coalition, unfortunately, that some MEPs are hating down in front of you, but most are holding the stand of this criminal association. And nobody can tell me it's not like that. If you tell Members of your own kind that this government does not do what it is supposed to do, then there is a lot of truth in this. I therefore propose what I have said – let us give the Commission the opportunity under Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure and bring the matter to an end in the way they have set it up. And I'm sure that's when the right solutions and the right decisions will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, I am well aware of the case, because I had access and the opportunity to read this documentation in a closed room. In his position, Mr Möderndorfer wondered about certain things. Mr Möderndorfer, you have wondered about the things that everyone knows; who has concealed, what was the control within the Bank of Slovenia or what was not within the NLB, what went wrong with the Police, what went wrong with Owl and so on. And you put it in the title, the name of this commission also to determine the appropriateness of legislation in the area of money laundering prevention. If you and your parliamentary group, Mr Möderndorfer, had a serious purpose, you would go to your former boss, I think he is quite aware of this area, you would ask him how money is being washed, where those holes are, and on this basis, you would amend the legislation and come to the National Assembly with a law that would remedy this matter. But since it is not a serious purpose, because the purpose is just a certain blur, the commission that will try again – and I agree with you – to find political responsibility. Political responsibility, however, is known where it is, on the party of the Social Democrats. Social Democrats then had a Prime Minister, the Social Democrats had a finance minister who had a Money Laundering Office under him and which is very important, and I will move on to that later, Borut Pahor as Prime Minister was the one who replaced the Director of Owa and appointed Sebastián Selan as Director, who played one of the key roles that law enforcement authorities did not stop when they had to. My question is what have you done in these three years in the field of legislation to prevent proliferation, money laundering and so on. What did you do? You are talking about Iran, but I think that the Slovenian Democratic Party in this Parliament was the only one who expressed concerns and outright opposition when everyone at the Foreign Policy Committee was talking about how to hurry with the recognition of Palestine. Let's take a look at the relationship between Palestine and Iran. Another issue concerning Iran, I think from Iran, some media have already reported this, is still coming to Slovenia today to pay for women to walk in Slovenia under cover. There are a lot of these cases, but of course the police don't deal with them. I think that 14 days ago on the national show she was giving an interview with Rad Pezdir, where he was talking about offshore companies, briefly about this parallel economy here with us, which has been there since the audience started doing money laundering through Trieste, cigarettes and so on. They were important things. If Harry Furlan, the head of the U.S. Attorney's Office, were to really start investigating these offshore companies, he would find himself. Now I say that if the SMC is really going to investigate money laundering in the NLB, it will find its Justice Minister, Mr Goran Klemenčič. Mr Goran Klemenčič was the one who lied in the National Assembly that, as the head of the KPK, when he found out about it, he filed a complaint, a complaint, what I know, what else. The members of the commission of inquiry, after we had another hearing, learned that, for the first time, this was not the case at all, and for the second time that there was a suspicion that he was even altering and falsifying the documents he had received and then handing them over to the police. Ask him because before Simona Kustec Lipicer said in her discussion that SMC had nothing to do with this. He has a Justice Minister who was in one of the key roles at the time. He has Mr Dark Staret, Secretary of State, who has also witnessed and fabricated and deceived KNOVS at a public session when the hearing was held. And, look, you're gonna find Harry Furlan, who was the head of the NPU at the time of this shit. And Harry Furlan is today the chief prosecutor, Blanca Žgajnar. Who's D.A. Blanka Žgainar? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the prosecutor who brought the trial against the defendants in the Balkan Warrior case to a standstill. And this is the prosecutor who missed the deadline for pressing criminal charges against Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic for sexual abuse and so on, the pharmacist's case, which is why all these evidence will now be erased. And here we have Prosecutor Blanco Žgajnar in all the rebuttal cases and we have Harry Furlan. His role and, above all, his immediate family members, in health corruption in the case of stents, I would rather not talk. But this is the man you consider to be the head of the U.S. Attorney's Office. Democracy has published an excellent network, an NLB money laundering octopus. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the most resounding names that are close to Forum 21. It was also said that Samir Amarin, the Honorary Consul of the Kingdom of Jordan, was the one who opened the door of Slovenia in connection with Mr Jankovic, Mr Kučan and Mr Zemelj, the door that this Iranian businessman could come here. And what's interesting is the connection of Forum 21 to this money laundering, it's called the Kučan clan. Look, on July 22nd, the director of the Owl was replaced. Andrej Rupnik left. Sebastian Selan arrived. He starts doing business in the second half of July as Director of the Owl, August, it is a bad month later, and Sova receives for the first time from the Anti-Money Laundering Office information on what is going on in the New Ljubljana Bank. I'm not going to mention dates, but it's more than obvious that Sebastian Selan's role in Owl was one alone. This is the one he was stalling. And what happens when another Yanshe government comes along and sets up a new director? Sebastian Selan is appointed director of Terme Catež, a company owned by Bojan Petan, one of the most visible members of the Kučan clan or Forum 21. In short, ladies and gentlemen, there is no coincidence here that I am not talking about you speaking SMC, that it is not connected. What about Mr. Funk? Where was Mr. Funk then? Do you know how many times we've heard the name of Mr. Funk and his role in the hearings? He'll be investigating this today as chief of police. Look at the family and friendships between Fanko and the family Györkös Žnidar. Do not hesitate, alone and clearly the purpose of this committee is to speak to this committee, to reject the report of the Commission by Anget Logar on this matter, the report of the KNOVS on this matter and to discuss, in the meantime, a little account with the Social Democrats, otherwise I have nothing against it, because it is their responsibility, because they had the prime minister, they had all the mechanisms, but today you who have all the mechanisms to do this before the authorities, the deadline of justice to bring those who were involved here, and instead you will go to some parliamentary committee to set up a show. I don't support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grims and Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Instead of discussing whether a new commission of inquiry will be designated or not to investigate, reviewing what has already been established, the question would be why those who have been informed of this money laundering in a timely manner and are still active officials or civil servants have not yet resigned. That's the first question. Why has the President of the Republic of Pahor not yet resigned? Why hasn't Justice Minister Klemenčič stepped down yet? Why hasn't his secretary of state resigned yet? Why have those who have received rich jobs in the New Ljubljana Bank not yet resigned? In this way, conditions would be established for any investigation that you are undertaking to obtain a form of impartiality at all. The people I am talking about now said they were familiar with money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank. The President of the Republic said this, Justice Minister Klemenčič said this, even boasted that some document, some application was sent somewhere, and his secretary of state said it recently, but nothing happened. Why don't these people back out? This is also a question for the proposer of this request for a new parliamentary inquiry. Not a single word from the President of the Government or the Group of Members, no one from the Group of Members has asked for the resignation of Minister Klemenčič. If such elementary things are not able to be done in the parliamentary group and in the government, then it is difficult to talk about the purpose of this commission of inquiry being something other than for these people to remain in office. That's impossible. That's impossible. First, we should clean up those who are still active in government or bank functions, and then we can go to some investigative commission. I have an ever-increasing feeling that the material that came into the investigation committee led by Logar was sent with inadequate attention. That is to say, someone in the bank obviously made a mistake and sent a material that was not directly related to the subject matter of the investigation. That's almost certain. And when this came to light, I am almost certain that the law on systematic investigations of projects was of national importance. One year after that, Minister Klemenčič came with a proposal for a law, which was intended to take over investigations of great importance on the government's side. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was that this could not happen and you cannot process and adopt the law now in the National Assembly without risking constitutional review and repealing the provisions of the law. And what is even more a problem with this law is that these large system-wide investigations of state projects, NLB and recapitalisation would certainly be a state project, carried out by people who would, say, former members of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption. By the way, they're already doing this. The agent is already at the bank and he's doing it, Kos is already at the bank and he's doing it, and Minister Klemenčič was even writing it for himself. He could even do this as a minister, because this is not excluded in this law you proposed. He could lead this investigator. I think that the kind of work you're going to do is actually tell you all about who's standing back and who needs to be protected. If the SMC is such a huge problem that we have to order an investigative commission at the summer session, then all investigative authorities in this country could operate throughout the summer, as they did for Kangler. Invitations, sessions, hearings and so on. NPU, SDT and so on and so on. It would be easy to do that. None of this is happening. Those who have been informed are wisely silent, and there is no question about their opinion; the media are strangely silent, not following it. When we had one case of MPs from SDS who were supposed to have, I don't know, some kind of strangely obtained education certificate, the journalists stood two months in front of the door and followed her, now that it's the other fish when it's real, the ones who were involved in this business are nowhere to be found. No one asks Klemenčič, except KNOVS, which he invited to the meeting. No press, no show about it, no schematics. Not for old man. Nothing. For others who were then informed, neither were they. And now SMC is going to investigate this in large and full. And what's interesting is that you're asking the commission of inquiry only for what's already known, that's what it's called for to launder this Iranian's money in the NLB. No other money laundering. It must have happened in this bank, too. This may not be an isolated case, but there was something else. And not in other banks. Why is that? What's the point? And, gentlemen, if the first conclusion or the first focus of the investigator is the law, then you have given a very clear signal. The law was broken, the provisions were broken, and so on, but dealing with whether the legal basis was sufficient, so none of them were working, but farce. That's, I'll say, below the level that you're dealing with it. Instead of being responsible, instead of demanding resignation, you will be concerned about whether any article of the law was sufficiently perfect. In doing so, it only turns out that everything related to the disclosure in the event of bank rehabilitation — when we requested disclosure and blocked all of this, even in those cases in the event of rehabilitation — now has real meaning with these things. Now you can only see how much of this has been invested in these projects to protect it. Klemenčič, who was conducting a forensic investigation of the bank hole, did not want to give any material to the investigators in the previous reference. He didn't want to pass on the material. And now he will be the one preparing the legal basis for the commission of inquiry to do so. Instead of resigning, the lead investigator, or lead investigator, will now be the one to protect him because he did not want to tell himself and confess anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much. There are some interesting thoughts, debates, and, above all, some groundless discussions such as some have imagined. I am pleased, however, that so many of you are present and that you are so actively involved, I hope that you will be so active even after the commission of inquiry begins its work. Let's go in order. I'll start in the back. Comrade Tanko, not Klemenčič, Drago Kos was doing a forensic investigation. I'm sorry, but you chose the wrong people. But it's one thing. KNOVS invited Mr Klemenčič on the basis of what, I do not know. What if you didn't want to come? Why didn't Comrade Logar invite him as a witness to his investigative commission? You know why not? Because he doesn't have a basis, and you don't have the authority to question him at KNOVS, but you only had a conversation. Klemenčič will come to this investigative commission, but as a witness and under oath, that is also what you, of course, could not do in an informative interview. That's the difference and that's the difference. And with that, you're always proving that you didn't have a job and you can't do it, even though we all want you to do it together, just like an investigative commission. KNOVS is not an investigative commission, let's face it. However, if we want the KNOVS to be an investigative commission, we must first by decree, then by rules of procedure, and then by what else to change in order to give up on the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. KPK is not an intelligence or security service. What if Mr Logar had invited a witness from the Anti-Money Laundering Office to the hearing if she hadn't come? Could Comrade Logar have forcibly brought her to the investigative commission? I don't think because he didn't have the basis, he didn't have the elements, and that's what Jan Mahnic doesn't understand when he says we're just talking about marriage. In fact, when you apply for an investigative commission, you must first lay the groundwork for it, and the law is one of the fundamental grounds for you to make that request. You can't file an investigative committee without the indicators. You just can't, and you can't remember today, but today I'd like to see if they're laundering money in banks, so I'm going to make an investigative commission. That's not how it works. And that's why, once again, what's important and what you're reading, and of course I'm talking very little about if you've noticed. You guys are just competing today to talk about what happened. I can't do that. I haven't seen the documents, I'm not a member of the investigative commission, I'm not in the KNOVS and I can't discuss it. I can only read what it says in Democracy, Reporter and other media. But democracy, as colleague Jan Mahnic says, has done all the research according to this logic. Then why is Logar actually doing it in this area? We can read everything in democracy. Is this the basis of what we're going to talk about today? And I'm not denying her the right to write about it, but that can't be the basis for us here today just discussing and giving valuable judgments. And we wave everything on average, what yes and what no. I cannot help it if my colleague Logar, because he alone, but he alone as President of the Commission, has not given – not as my colleague Pojbič says after 9th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but – after 9th Article of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry into the proposal for enlargement. We can't do that here in the National Assembly, the commission can do that on its own. And that's the difference, and I still don't know why she didn't make that decision today. I don't know why he didn't. But we're not doing this right now, and I'm going to say more about it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Mahnic, you have 14 seconds to replicate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you. Of course it is determined on the basis of the law, but it bothered me that you wrote "checking the appropriateness of legislation". Go to those money launderers, ask them how they do it, and change the law and bring it here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u66	It is not only the regular work of the National Assembly and the government to bring the existing legislation into Parliament every so long and to update it on the basis of the findings of what they would like to change, but it is also one of the fundamental reasons for the Commissions of Inquiry to propose, on the basis of the findings, the appropriateness of the legislation in the area under investigation. That's what all the investigative commissions have done to date. Let me tell you the difference, for example, in the previous term, Mr Pogačnik led a committee for banks and I can tell you that he has done his job very well. Very good. In a very short time, he has made an interim report, which has not yet been achieved by Mr Logar in such a short time. Of course. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Do you have a problem? Vice President, the MPs are having problems, they're trying to tell me something. [[advertising from the hall]] In such a short time, I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u67	Please let Mr. Jani Möderndorfer finish, then you will. Mr. Jani, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u68	In such a short time, I'm so sorry. You can turn the cards as much as you want, Mr Pogačnik did it in a very short time, but it was not his fault that the mandate had ended earlier. He was very correct, and he solved one problem that you are reminding us of today — because someone mentioned that there were two commissions. In the previous term, there was a similar problem, one you remember. It was a commission for banks proposed by the National Assembly, a request was made by you, and it was a request from the Council of State. The one you remember. Of course, there was a complication of who would actually investigate the same matter, but then Mr Pogačnik tried or SDS, there you have a leader who has conducted intensive discussions, and you have agreed with the Council of State and, of course, have done your homework. In this case, you didn't even propose an extension. Next thing. I said earlier that the Anti-Money Laundering Office is not an intelligence and security authority. Neither one nor the other, and the investigation committee has no basis for this. If the Director hadn't come if he didn't want to come to the commission, Mr Logar wouldn't have had a basis to force him to bring him in, which the investigating commission has an opportunity to do. You know why not? Because these tasks are not described as what he will do as part of the investigation committee. He knows that. He knows he's trying a lot of things. If he succeeds, he succeeds. If he doesn't, he doesn't. Most who receive an invitation come to the commission of inquiry. In order to understand each other, once again, I told him myself — although this is not the custom, my colleague Pojbič likes to explain — I personally congratulated him twice for his good work on the committee of inquiry and congratulated him on his extremely good willingness to hear the Witnesses. That's what I told him in person. You want me to say it out loud? Absolutely. I can say that out loud, too. But this is still not the basis for concluding the law in the end. Who is the only person in the National Assembly called to lead the investigative committee, I listened today. Any of the 90 Members, but anyone. And there's not one and only and one and only and one and one and one. Today, several other things were mentioned, including the fact that if we had the first commission in the coalition, it would not have happened. This could be one very good political rhetoric when you talk about things that haven't happened. Mr Logar said that if this coalition were led by the SMC, as envisaged, then this discovery of money laundering would not have occurred. I do not know if this is true, as far as I am aware, each parliamentary group has proposed to its professional associate and professional associate, who has stumbled upon these documents and has discovered them, has come to the proposal of New Slovenia. And if this committee, I imagine, I speak in the same way and in the same language as Mr Logar, led the SMC, New Slovenia would probably propose the same expert and probably come up with the same data as it is now. I know what you're implying that if Mr. Pesdir had discovered this under the guidance of the SMC, it would never have been a day. Did it really come the same day as the chairman of the commission of inquiry found out about these documents, even on a day? It probably took a while before it came, because the president had to ask himself, convince him, verify, even some strategy, what he would do, what moves he would make, and so on, right? Oh, shit. As I mentioned earlier, you can't refer to the investigation committee as a resource. Today it has been mentioned at least three times why, for God's sake, we did not extend the element to all banks. I don't have any indication right now that money laundering happened at any other bank, but an investigative committee can do that at its first session. And unlike the existing Commission of Inquiry, where the President did not make this move, I will certainly do so if I have the opportunity to extend the work of the Commission under Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure. At this point, the requirement is what is generally known from the media and what has been reported to both the Commission, both the KNOVS and the Commission of Inquiry. So don't say anything in advance, because you don't really know what's going to happen. The next thing I think is interesting – I tell you already today, this commission will not have an interim report, it will only have a final report because it does not need an interim report because it will work very quickly because the left share has already been made. But that doesn't mean everything was done. And I also suggest you don't say too much out loud and say certain things because you'll probably be very surprised, but unlike you, I don't say it out loud. Witnesses who have not yet spoken before the commission of inquiry will be brought in. And political responsibility is not necessarily just the one you see with your projection with your eyes. By the way, Angie Logar played with the story, if you want to play with the SD, but in principle he doesn't mind, it says, he doesn't mind the political exploitation of the commission. No, that's not what me and our commission are gonna do. Today was quite a talk about SDH. I'm sorry, let's take another look at the date that something happened. As far as I know, the first thing NLB was dealing with was the AUKN, when SDH was the money laundering that we're talking about, there was no more. That's why I find it kind of amazing how we're getting into SDH now, which wasn't there at all. But at the end of the day, it was AUKN, and before that, it was just a bank. And today, I feel like we're just discussing it by turning around and looking for something that isn't, or diverting attention. Once again, I tell you, you know, and you are right to know which government ruled Slovenia during this period. But it is known that this government has also left a large number of people from the previous government in positions that played a key role. That is why neither of them can escape this situation. And they won't. Colleague Eva Irgle said: "It is well known who has been in political functions and other positions." Yeah, you're right, and that's why both sides need to be looked at. [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague Irgle, don't be nervous. I'm always quiet when you talk. She also said the following sentence because this sentence was in the context of why law enforcement authorities in other institutions fail to perform their task. But once again, the commission of inquiry will not be looking for me, just as Gorenak wanted to ask me today with a bit of a clever question and to be lured to answer what I am actually going to investigate, given that the law enforcement authorities have not investigated me, and it is up to him whether he believes this is going to be a fogging commission or not. I can only answer him what the facts are, the Commission of Inquiry will only look for what is required on the basis of these elements and, of course, at the end of political responsibility. However, if she comes across a suspicion of a crime, she will, as Mr Logar did, indict and press charges against the relevant law enforcement authorities. Pike and that's where our work ends. I believe it won't be too little because this cake was too large and was too wide for just one type of clientele to be found inside this cake. I'm sorry. I regret that, but that's the way it is. And all those who have drawn this network, you know that a lot of people have wet their fingers and are connected in this network. We can't just talk about one group of people. The matter goes to the top, a true colleague, also to the President of the Government. Yes, it is, to the Prime Minister, not just one government. I'm sorry. However, Pojbič even mentioned and did some comparison with Milan M. Szikl, which those who do not know this context and the Slovenian public who sees this must remember deeply what was really happening. It was just the other way around. If he's already mentioned it, then it's only right to tell us what happened. The Mercator Investigation Commission, or the problems that occurred at the time, and what the Commission was investigating, was then filed by your client. And then there was then the then Member Milan M. Zwickl, who proposed his investigator, and then, without a doubt, the ZPS found, for the first time, that two of them couldn't investigate the same things, for the second time, that of course, he knew who was the first to invest, and so it remained. And that's why you ran this committee. But "unbelievably", at the time you were a government party and there was no indication that the government party was doing this because Milan M. Szwikl was in opposition at the time. And you won't believe it, and you've had your chairman of the National Assembly from this same party, which is an obvious colleague of Dobovšek, who's only interested in the first 10 minutes of the debate, and then he's never there again, because otherwise I can't answer him like this, and I can't. I mean, if we had it all in our hands. How much is in the hands of this logic could paraphrase or create a kind of paradox. [[…]] The Prime Minister of that period knew nothing and ran the government, but others sat in certain positions and actually drove the whole story, so I listen and try to understand. Whether this is true or not, the investigation committee will find out. I am sure that in the end we will be very surprised and dissatisfied because everyone will be looking for their culprits, and this is wrong. And I believe that if we put something on the constitution, the law and the rules of procedure, and if we want to tell people the truth, you will be actively involved in this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Procedurally, here you go, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u70	I would have three proposals, Mr President. First, to allow time-sharing. Secondly, to explain to Mr Möderndorfer that there has never been such a case as it is today, because there have never been two Commissions investigating facts about any event, but one of them is an investigator, to try to set up another investigator. Thirdly, when you announce that you are going to appoint a new investigator to be led by Mr Möderndorfer, I propose that, according to his words, you name it with the right name, that this is the committee for the protection of the character and work of Goran Klemenčič and Zoran Janković, blurring the facts and redirecting the attention and blocking the work of all other investigative commissions in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We've got some time left. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Please sign up. Here you go, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. I listened with interest to the speech of my colleague Möderndorfer. I must say that I am a little more concerned than I was at the beginning, because I think that the main purpose of this commission of inquiry has been presented in the final part, that responsibility has been shared and that you are all dissatisfied. That was roughly what was said. But since there was a lot of error during the course of implementation, I would first correct my colleague Möderndorfer to jump a little from speaker to speaker. I've never talked about having this commission of inquiry accounted for by SD, so don't put those words in my mouth. However, I agree with him when he said that colleague Pogačnik had prepared a good report. Finally, you will find that in fact all members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are doing well. Is it therefore necessary to set up another commission of inquiry on the same subject, that is now a matter of dilemma, but in the end, because, I say, it is a good parliamentary group, I agree. But on the whole thing, it's interesting that the argument was wrong. He wanted to demonstrate the effectiveness of an investigative commission vis-à-vis my investigative commission, but if my colleague Möderndorfer remembered a little more, he would find that you did not vote on that report at all in the National Assembly because you rejected this report, voting on that report with procedural complications. You were the largest parliamentary group, you were the president of the largest parliamentary group, and with procedural complications you refused this report to come to the National Assembly at all. Can you imagine? And now you're using this as an argument. I mean, absolute scheming. As for whether I could invite Mr. Plaustiner to testify or not. I would. I assure you that you would. Comrade Möderndorfer, you're terribly wrong here. I'll tell you why. Legality is decided by the courts if the court decides that something is legal, so it is legal. Jani Möderndorfer will not say that it is not legal, but that what the court has said will apply. Now, watch out. We have received documents on alleged money laundering from banks on the basis of a request. The bank refused to submit these documents, so we turned to the court. On the basis of the mandate of the investigative commission, the court decided that the bank should forward these documents to the investigative commission. Pika, stop. So the investigation of alleged money laundering is legal, and that the investigation committee can deal with it, I think even if it finds out the irregularities, it has to be decided by the court. So, your second argument falls into the water. I sincerely hope that when we meet again here in September and we will vote on the interim report on the alleged money laundering of Iranian citizen Irai Farrokhzadeh in the New Bank of Ljubljana of EUR billion, this will be one of the key purposes of sending this as a statement of the suspicion of the crime, those who voted in favour of this investigative commission will vote in favour of this report and that, at the end of the day, this report will also be a good basis for your further work. Then you will see how much of your width is left of today's words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the Parliamentary Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry into possible amendments to the legislation governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and for the determination of the actual state of play to determine the political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of influence or involvement in alleged money laundering and terrorist financing, the financing of nuclear proliferation and the financing of the activities of foreign intelligence services abroad in the New Ljubljana Bank, d.d., by citizens of the Islamic Republic of Iran and related economic operators, and for the alleged non-implementation of restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran, adopted by the United Nations and by the European Union. Thus, for the first time, the possible political responsibility of individual holders of public functions is determined due to the suspicion of influence or involvement in alleged money laundering and terrorist financing, the financing of nuclear proliferation and the financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services abroad in the New Ljubljana Bank, d.d., by citizens of the Islamic Republic of Iran and related economic operators, and the alleged failure to implement restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran adopted by the United Nations and also the European Union, or the suspicion that this has been done by their knowledge and without acting in accordance with their competences. Secondly, it shall determine whether the New Ljubljana Bank, d.d., has developed and established an effective system to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and has implemented comprehensively and carefully, through legislation, the prescribed measures in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing and internal risk management procedures in this area. Thirdly, it shall determine how the legislation provides for measures in the field of money laundering and terrorist financing, internal procedures, reporting to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the prevention of money laundering and reporting, and obtaining authorisations from the competent authorities for the implementation of restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran adopted by the United Nations and also by the European Union, carried out business with the citizens of the Islamic Republic of Iran and related economic operators, as well as for the Export Development Bank of Iran, as well as the roles and responsibilities of the members of the board, the supervisory board and the responsible persons of the bank for foreign payments and the authority to prevent money laundering in the bank because of suspected abandonment or conduct contrary to applicable legislation in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing and due professional diligence in dealing with those natural persons or economic entities and with the Export Development Bank of Iran and whether they have been negotiated or have been affected by individual public functions. Fourthly, it establishes the possible responsibility of the supervisor of the Slovenian Bank of Slovenia banking system to supervise the implementation of the provisions of the legislation governing the prevention of money laundering in the banking sector, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the prevention of money laundering and other competent authorities for the control and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing or for the implementation of the provisions of the legislation governing the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing, the competent authorities for the detection of nuclear proliferation and the financing of the activities of foreign security intelligence services abroad for this purpose, the law enforcement authorities for the prosecution of alleged perpetrators of alleged money laundering and terrorist financing and the competent authorities for the implementation of restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran, adopted by the United Nations and the European Union. Fifthly, it establishes the appropriateness of the legislation governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the state and effectiveness of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system, which could lead to a possible amendment of the legislation governing this area and the appropriateness of the implementation of those measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran adopted by the United Nations and also by the European Union, with a view to determining which of the individual holders of public functions was responsible or political responsibility for such a situation. The purpose and scope of the parliamentary investigation are defined in three documents. In the request of the Group of Members and Members for the purpose of determining the parliamentary inquiry, in a copy of that request and in the Act on the Designation of the Parliamentary Inquiry you have received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly, if possible, for that meeting. I hereby conclude the 26th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on electronic communications under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u74	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the basic objectives of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, the so-called ZEKom-1C, whose primary purpose is to ensure the full transposition of the European Directive on measures to reduce the costs of electronic communications, the so-called cost reduction of the Directive. With these laws, we also want to improve the legal regime of the law so far called ZEK, because, on the basis of public consultation, we have come up with certain proposals and solutions on the basis of the state of the solutions we have adopted in practice, the consultation with stakeholders, and the solutions we are introducing to the amendments to the law before you. We have been looking for more balanced solutions, and coordination with many stakeholders has been taking place for a very long time to prepare this law. The proposals, which were not taken into account in the amendment of the law itself, were all reasoned and reasoned, and many were actually taken into account, as the stakeholders requested. At the same time, we would point out that the European Commission is already beginning to consider the Directive on the European Electronic Communications Code, and we anticipate that once this Directive is completed, an intervention will be needed again in this legislation with the so-called ZEC-2, which will also fully transfer what the European Commission will impose on its members through this level of treatment. The adoption of this law is in a hurry because we are bound by the deadlines we must respect, on the other hand, we also want to publish as soon as possible a call for the construction of broadband networks that are linked to the adoption of these materials that are before you today. At the same time, this law lays the groundwork for the preparation of the so-called 5G project, because the law sets test frequencies for a three-year period with which to run for European funds, we temporarily set frequencies between 3.4 and 4.8 megahertz for the purpose of testing the 5G network. The law was dealt with on the committee, amendments to the coalition were proposed and on the basis of the Legislative and Legal Supplement Service, which we have also included. At the same time, we are aware that the proposals tabled by opposition parties to increase transparency have been thoroughly examined and we note that, with the existing law, the current amendments introduce additional transparency requirements that raise standards and prevent some of the unloving situations that have been in the past. But more than that, with regard to the rest of the legal restrictions, we cannot enter into the law, because this would affect other rights, the right to freedom of choice of work and the right for each person to express his or her views and make commitments to himself. We believe that the law is well-coordinated, thoroughly reasoned. We propose the adoption and, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that the National Assembly carry out a third hearing at this meeting and also adopt the law definitively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. At its 36th meeting, on 28 June 2017, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. At the request of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Jozet Tank, the National Assembly decided on or held a general discussion on the draft law on 24 May 2017 and decided that it was appropriate for further consideration. Within the deadline of business, the amendments to the proposal were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. The Committee first voted on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to convene a public presentation of opinions, but did not support it. Representative of the proposer, State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Mag. Tanja Bogataj stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the purpose of the proposal is to ensure the full transposition of Directive 2014/61/EU, which introduces measures to reduce the costs of the construction of high-speed electronic communications networks and services into the legal order of Slovenia. Slovenia has notified the rules in force so far and thus has ensured partial compliance with the Directive and a proposal for this Act must be adopted for the final transposition. In doing so, the bill also refers to some improvements in the legislation which have proved necessary in practice. Improvements are being introduced in relation to the points for calculating the payment paid by operators to Akos for its operation and improvements in terms of greater clarity in supplementing the provisions on contracting contracts. The responsibilities of the Board of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, which will now adopt the Agency's work programme and financial plan and monitor their implementation, are increasing. There are more clearly defined relationships and also clear uncertainties regarding the radio spectrum, including with regard to the different interpretations of the provisions in ZECOM-1 and in the law governing the media. The requirements for candidates for directors and members of the Board of the Agency are increasing and the basis for the publication of the call for the construction of broadband networks and also for the testing of 5G technology is laid down. In order to find an optimal solution between the very different interests of the stakeholders, the harmonisation of the proposal was long-term. The Secretary of State also expressed support for the proposed amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the proposed amendments covered all the comments made by the PSC in her written opinion. The Commission of the State Council for State Regulation supports the proposal for a law. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, at a meeting of the Commission of the State Council, considered that the Ministry of Public Administration, in the main part, took into account the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as it was still possible to comply with the directive and to ensure an adequate balance of all interests, both of consumers and of the public interest and of other sources. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia said that the main objective of the bill was to accelerate access to broadband connections, to the rapid internet of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and its Information and Telecommunications Association were included only in the early stages of the drafting of the bill, and later not to a large extent, so the Chamber proposed amendments to the bill. In the debate, members of the coalition explained that the amendment extended to Article 6 to extend the deadline available to operators to express interest in the co-investor from 10 days to 10 working days, since operators had warned that the deadline was 10 days too short. The Committee voted on the amendments of the coalition coalition groups of the Modern Centre Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and the Social Democrats and adopted them. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and supported the articles of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 10 July. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Given that Article 51 also applies to Article 58, allow me to speak about both articles together. But let me start over. It should be pointed out that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to hold a general debate on this law was rejected on the home committee, but it should be stressed that it was rejected by the hair. This means that it was also on the other hand, i.e. by the coalition Members, but there is some doubt as to whether or not this debate would have been necessary. The fact is, it would be. The fact is, the Minister here is deceiving when he says that the debate has been held with all stakeholders. That was in the previous stages. In the preceding stages, when the law was being drafted, all were invited to comment, but when a final proposal was reached, where individual comments were not taken into account, such a debate did not take place, and this is crucial. The fact is that the Ministry did not take into account the decision of the Labour Committee, which then dealt with this law, or that it was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, where it was clearly stated that the definition between management and Director Akosa, his powers and everything else was not well regulated. This was not taken into account in the marriage. If you want to say that the priority was only implementation of the directive, then I really don't know what you've been doing for two and a half years. Today you're all talking about being in a hurry because it's in the premonition process. For two and a half years you have implemented the directive, because other essential things do not change this law. But if so, then tell me how we are not going in the direction of other European countries, where they simply know that the management of such an agency is not a single one, that it is an important area for such an agency to be led by one person. Second, tell me why there is no more specific definition of what the priority points or what services are and how operators will provide these functions with advantage. You were also reminded of this by the Chamber of Commerce. And if you take a good look at this article, which is today, we can talk about constitutional dispute, because there can be a violation of human rights. As set out in this article today, someone can invent a telecommunications network in this country and in a particular area because it is not precisely defined when. We only talk about the points with advantage, but we don't define when. It's too wide a matter, and it also alerts the profession. Finally, the matter is very interesting, I read one of the blogs yesterday, where they speak very precisely about these things and how problematic this so-called limitation of communication services can be. Let me tell you that, according to the Brookins Centre for Technological Innovation, 81 exclusions were detected and analysed between 1 July 2015 and 30 June 2016, I am talking about a global case in 19 countries. Do you know which countries these are? India 22, Iraq 22, Syria 8, Pakistan 6, Turkey 3, so on. The fact is that with such solutions, which are overly loose, there can certainly be human rights violations on a case-by-case basis. I advise you to take a look at this expert opinion from one of the individuals who carefully analyzed it and also tell you exactly where the problem is. And it probably alerts or alerts the information officer. As far as the amendments are concerned, we want to at least partially ease what can be happening today, that is, that the one who leads, can cooperate, supervise, operate unlimitedly. In doing so, at least we want to restrict the business of both members of the Akos Council and the Director, it is said that it is also an indirect restriction that family members, family members, partners and so on cannot participate. In short, to at least partially limit the matter, to define it better than it has been so far, because, as has been said, we now have a matter too open, and as has already been said on the committee itself, the fact is that today someone can supervise and operate, advise another company, of course, can advise an undertaking that deals with these matters, but sits alone in the world of one of these agencies. It's possible now, and now it does. That's what it is now. Not only do I point out this, but also those who know the matter from a close point of view, not only professionally, but also participate in these individual bodies. But these people didn't want to listen. It was precisely because of these people that there was no public debate. I hope that you will at least listen to these amendments in the sense that matters will spread in this respect. Otherwise, as it is said, two and a half years for the implementation of the directive and in the forecasting process, we are respected. Then you say you couldn't save other things because you're in a hurry. Two and a half years. And one seriously wonders what you've been doing for two and a half years. And then, if the matter is so highly coordinated and so high-quality, how come we voted on the amendments for half an hour? And these amendments are not coalition amendments, these are the things that the Law-Legal Service warned about, you just implemented them because there was so much that it was embarrassing. This law is a disgrace! For half an hour we voted on the amendments, and for two and a half years you prepared it, and that was on the amendments to the Legal and Legislative Service. What if we were to deal with these matters in substance? And just because this law has so many holes and so many negative opinions from the professional public, you were against a public debate. For if he were so good, then we would support the public debate, because it would still be in July and would not miss anything, there would be no penalty for that. As I say, the forecasting process is under way, but probably in ten days nothing would be missed. It's just another farce of yours when you bring things right in front of the planters, so you can whistle at those who do these things professionally. The fact is that I am warning you about these points with the advantage, limitation and even termination of communications, I will say, relationships or whatever, we can even talk about the Internet, the telephone and everything else here. I hope you know, given what the law says, that this matter is so loose, it's completely on the table, it can be abused. I hope this doesn't happen in this country. Otherwise, we have Syria listed there, and I've told you what other countries. God does not allow us to be among them in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u79	Dr. Dragan Matić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. About the fact that communication connections, the Internet and everything else would just go off on average if someone in Akos made that decision and had nothing else to do and turned the button, of course, was absurd. In this regard, an immediate response should be made. It is known in which situations and which authorities decide to do so, there is a regulation providing for a state of emergency, whether it is a state of war or an earthquake or something else, then it is necessary to release communications in order to carry out the necessary protection, rescue and all that is necessary in this regard. In this respect, the fear expressed by Mrs Bah is completely inappropriate. There was some inaccuracies in her debate when she spoke of anyone sitting and counseling in the world of the Agency now, although it is interestingly linked to the legal persons controlled by the Agency. Of course that's not true. Article 176 already provides that members of the Council may not be those who are employees or members of the Management Board or of the Supervisory Authority of a legal person who carries out an activity in the field under the responsibility of the Agency and that this cannot be the person whose spouse, extra-marital partner or partner in accordance with the law or relative of the type up to and including the other knee — if he has such a relative cannot be in the world of that agency. The new law has also made a mandatory declaration which must be made by a member of the Board of the Agency at the time of the application, the candidate. Here, however, the SDS proposes to extend the need to issue such a statement as not yet in the interest of each of its relatives, these are, paying attention, spouse, children, adoptive parents, adoptive parents, brothers, sisters and individuals living with individuals in a common household. It is important to ask how much this solution leads to an improvement in potential anti-corruption risks, how much is it really a bureaucratic obstacle, because it is a question of why this multitude of relatives is not only counted, but grandchildren and grandparents are left out, and the SDS is very much committed to the rights of old parents and there are no nephews. The question is also how this candidate will be able to achieve this if he has relatives with whom he or she has no contact at all. We have cases, this is a "pretty" Slovenian habit of people arguing over an inheritance and not even talking and being resentful. How is this man going to check it out? Will he hire any private investigators to find out what his relative is doing in such and different business relationships? It is not quite clear how colleagues in the SDS imagined this, and it can also be a very late task. I know a man who has a rather high function, and you will not believe it, for the Slovenian situation is unusual, he has, says and writes, 11 brothers and sisters. How is he going to do all this so he can run for the council of agencies? I think it's some very populist gesture by the SDS when they're trying at first sight to suggest something like this, but in practice it just doesn't drink water. It's similar to having Swiss cheese and then blocking, I don't know, 5 or 6 holes and saying, but now we've done something. But there are 53 other holes. What if the one in the world of the agency trusts some of his business, I don't know, a husband from his sister or a brother who doesn't know who? These matters are set up only as a new bureaucratic obstacle, regardless of the fact that personal data protection is also present here, since Akos must also make public the resulting declarations of interest. If this is still understandable for someone who is running and then confirmed as a member of the board of agencies, it can be so much more controversial for all of his relatives up to his second knee if you publish that crowd of statements there. This amendment certainly feels more like a populism move than a concrete contribution in terms of improving anti-corruption risks. But I'll make an amendment to the next article later. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u81	Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Matić, you said nice, 11 kids and so on. It's nice to know things. The Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption sets out exactly such matters as the wider family members or the closer family members and does not deal with how many brothers and sisters she is. So, look, you're in principle the most supportive of these laws, and you're classifying them, in fact, ethical codes, after all, and into every hole. But it is true that there are many things that are not respected, but ask yourself why. The best thing you can do is ask your Justice Minister, he'll be the one who can tell you the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u83	We continue the debate. Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's a little difficult to get into this story now at two previous times, I can't say anything like pathetic, although this time the SDS is more right, but they obviously have to lead the story to Syria, and then the SMC must, of course, turn to the head, as if they were the smartest in the universe and that the world didn't exist before them. You know, communications are essentially important to the functioning or cybernetics of any civilization. It is not necessary for you to listen to the history of civilization in the legendary Professor Southerner in order to know. That's another thing. For 50 years, I'd say Castelec, we've been living in an information society. I am a generation of the Internet, by the way, and in this respect the proper regulation of this area is all the more important for the functioning of societies, the functioning of the country in a narrower, broader sense, socio-space and other development. What exactly do we have in this amendment? There's a directive that's just late, and I'm not going into history right now for who and why it's getting a little abuse. We have now heard both from the rapporteur's report and from the SDS criticism that the main talk has been about business-driven stakeholders. If we are seriously discussing communications, it is, after all, a big deal. After all, the largest ICT contracting entity in Slovenia is the country. This is the area of a couple of hundred million and let's be honest, and that's why it's more intelligent, eloquent and so different from SMC's quota, because it's really a little bit hung up there in some other area that already has too many tasks. When we talk today about information technology, about ICT, we have a dilemma here, we have an antipod here, on the one hand you have a business and a so-called deep country that would like to look at our ass, which lastly appears in the work proposal of the Owl Act, on the other hand we have freedom of speech, integration, openness and I am actually putting these things somewhere. You probably don't have to laminate for long where the focus of the Left is here. How does Slovenia feel about this? Of course, the situation is not pink. In some cases, we are even better, compared to Europe, and in many cases we are actually worse, or so little at home, perfectly shabaiser, if I may say so. Not such a bad case is the existing Internet neutrality that this amendment is trying to overwhelm, resulting from an EU directive where, of course, this strong sector has successfully lobbyed, but it is a recommendation by BEREC that we need to take into account. The next issue is the unsatisfactory operation of the regulator, Akos and both worlds. This is a fact and this is where the SDS amendments kind of go in the right direction, although probably if we were to drill back into history, which could eventually be done by SMC, we could wave that when you were in power, but it was actually similar. For one thing, we have quite a few practices with these biggest telecom operators – or we have a duopol here – who are walking on the edge, who are somehow violating consumer rights and are not properly regulated through regulators. However, if we touch on the directive itself, this is a directive of minimum harmonisation, which in the language that my daughter and omika and all of us will understand, means that it leaves quite a lot of freedom for individual EU countries to decide how and how these matters are introduced. You know, it's very nice to talk about the network, about the expansion of the network, about 5G and so on, which in practice will mean that some budgets will go to some subcontractors, some private sector. You know, I was a relatively young researcher there in 1996, 1997, and I was already stuttering – even I was once beautiful, I know you can hardly imagine – that we should actually start talking about content. Here is the irresponsibility of Slovenian ICT policy. Of course, every policy, when it comes to taste, power, dealing with telecommunications operators. Then we have a system of rotating governments, when people from these, I'll say, private institutions or semi-state privates come to the agency, into the world and go back, but they come here because of, of course, this is where the big money goes back, according to your own words. However, we are not taking this seriously if we are already giving some budgetary resources, but what citizens and citizens and the scientific field, which we are giving less and less money to them, are ultimately local communities and civil sectors. That something in this area is very wrong, we are literally told by every audit of the Court of Auditors. Are we going to see health care, or are we going to look at the congregations, or are we going to look at what I was saying yesterday. It is important that we draw some wires on Facebook or that we tweet as a Slovenian son-in-law, what are these contents, how will we think about them, how we will improve these systems, and we will not get to that. This is not the case, I can say it after three years in this byte, because the Slovenian policy has been accelerating only the Bev for 20 years. And maybe we should turn off the TV, too, because we are not so beautiful again that Parliament becomes what it is supposed to be – some serious parliamentary. If I finish. Of course, we cannot support this innovation because it is going in the very wrong direction. Of course, Mr Caf wrote about this, but I have no illusions, if the SDS were in power, that would have happened. If SD or Jankovic or a third clone were so-called Levice, they might be a little less bewildered and the story would go the same way. That's why I'm gonna end up like yesterday. We are here talking about Slovenia, new policy, reset, up and down. All of us who are minimally familiar with computers know that reset means that you are charged with the same operating system and we need a radically different and serious operating system. In the coming mandates, I hope that some other composition of the policy will begin to discuss this, even if I am not part of it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u85	Mr. Simon Zajc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to discuss both amendments at the same time, given that they have little connection to each other. When we are talking about the first amendment to Article 51 tabled by the SDS, we must first say that we are talking about a declaration which, following this proposal, should it be adopted, each member or candidate for a member of the Council, i.e. a statement of interests and connections, should it be adopted. That's not what it was until now. This article, however, refers to this declaration, which is then made public. This Article does not refer to prohibitions, links and interests, since this is already regulated by the current law in its 176th Article. So it is already forbidden that Mrs Bah Žibert has previously read this law so that they can cooperate and operate, even though they are in the world of Akosa. This is no longer true, but what we are doing now with this new proposal is that we are increasing transparency, which means that every candidate for a member of the Council will have to make a statement, which will then be made public, that there is no such link and that there is no such interest. Well, that's already forbidden. It's just an extra statement. However, when we talk about your text, it might make sense or good for you to read in detail what we have proposed, and then you might find that what you are proposing is positive about what you are proposing already contains our text. Therefore, our text also contains one sentence in the first paragraph of Article 175.a, which states that it must also disclose in this declaration any other circumstances which may affect the objective and impartial performance of the duties of a member of the Board of the Agency, to which this also belongs. And we further stipulate that any other member of the Council, if he sees it, proposes to the Council that he then propose an investigation before the KPK. But as I said, after the current law, which I don't know if you know, obviously don't, it's forbidden for someone to become a member of the world, if his wife is, say, a member of the board of any such company that operates in the field that Akos regulates. So what you're proposing is already included and clearly shows more clearly that you don't know the existing law or this amendment of the law. However, the problem is one of the negative points that could have happened if your amendment had been accepted, and this is that perhaps then a number of good experts who would have applied for this job would have turned them away, because what if they did not really have contact with those people that you want to make a statement about, or his brother who no longer has contact with, and so on, what interests or connections. However, if he does know about them, he must make a statement after the present proposal. So what you want is already proposed. When we talk about another amendment, you want to legitimize absolute stupidity. If we look at Article 58 — What is it? It is the Director and his deputies who cannot become directors if they have an ownership share, if they are in the board of directors, in the supervisory board and so on in companies that cooperate with companies operating in the field governed by Akos. Well, not exactly these operators, but the companies they're working with. Such persons who have ownership shares there and so on cannot become directors. However, these companies, whose owners they are, may, for example, conclude a telephone contracting relationship. What you're suggesting is that this would no longer be allowed. According to your amendment, this would mean that if the director is the owner or co-owner of a company, this company in Slovenia could not order the internet with any operator. You do this because you will delete the second paragraph of Article 183a. So, you didn't even get a good look at what you were really doing. As for article 183.b, it is the same as before. This is a statement which already foresees such cases in the current text, where it could have an impact on its neutral decision that it should also announce them in that statement. These things, positive and feasible, are already in place, and what you want is absolutely stupid. This is said to be the case that an undertaking where the director is not aware or a deputy director has a share cannot conclude a contracting relationship in Slovenia. That's bullshit! [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you haven't even looked at what you're doing with the amendment, delete the second paragraph or modify it. As far as priority points are concerned, this is already being regulated by the current law. It is just a matter of determining more precisely when and to what extent this can happen, it is a case of emergency situations where everyone wants to make one phone call. We can imagine that, I don't know, I was at a concert recently where there were just over 50,000 people, and at the time that everyone wanted to tweet and publish, it just collapsed, no one could get to the connection. Now, if we imagine an extraordinary situation, if we all wanted to, and it happens that even those persons who are defined by the regulation as priority carriers would not be able to reach a connection, but this is a problem, because those who regulate the solution are good enough to have this advantage over others. But only for as long as it takes. So we're not talking about someone just remembering and putting an end to it. It's not like that. This has already been regulated by the current law, the current novelties are only more detailed and more precisely regulated, which I think is also regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u87	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u88	Mr. Zajc, look what you said. First of all, you said that what had to do with family members was already in marriage and that we had not read the law. Your next sentence was: “But what you are proposing could turn someone away from going to this game and running for such a function.” Yeah, what if he's already married, you say, everything? I listened very well. The fact is that we know exactly who and what, and that this is also in the direction of laws or solutions that other European countries have, which also prevent matters and cooperation with family members. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the profession says. Have some reading, Mr. Caf has already been mentioned. Read some of his belongings, and you'll see what's wrong with this marriage. And look, so far, just to tell you, it's against the Director's interests. The director can build an entire empire — how? It may cooperate in business with suppliers, but may not control them or have a share in them. But he can do business. Thus, the bill or these matters are only resolved when it comes to financial interests, not business and others. That's not true what you're saying. Come in. ZECOM-1 allows for advisory and other business cooperation with regulated companies, suppliers or even the Agency alone. Such a conflict of interest that can also bring a substantial higher financial reward to an individual for his obedience and cooperation. But that's the problem, and that's the problem. This makes it even more difficult for us to have a director of one another and that is why many other European countries do not have leadership in one person. That things are even more transparent. But here's actually this one, sorry, God, and here's not enough. And when we pointed this out, it was said, it was only a matter of implementing the directive, but of course we will do everything else again; but look, it took two and a half years to implement the directive, but today we are in the pre-trial or pre-commanding process. That's what they say, and if we don't hurry, hurry, hurry, everything will be wrong. As for the points and as you define it – I did not read it in the law. Yeah, I haven't read this case. I don't know when the marriage is. I don't know, maybe according to your new laws, there are cases in there, like there's an event and there's the Internet and then there's an accident and it falls down. The fact is that this matter has been recorded very loosely and that it is not known, not knowing the time limit, as long as it takes — as long as it takes. Yeah, but who's going to define this necessity? Maybe there'll be one need, I don't know, we'll flip off the Internet, everybody's dealing with social networks today, and so on. Maybe 30 days, at the time of the campaign there will be some urgent situation in the country, and they will have certain points in particular areas of priority. That's all that's defined: the points with advantage. And that is a flaw, and I remind you that there may be a violation of human rights here. I didn't say they did, but they could come because the matter was too loosely defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u89	Replica Mr. Zajc, then Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. Zajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you. I'd replicate in a work where I was obviously misunderstood. In fact, if you look at paragraph 58, so the new 183.a says exactly what you want us to do. The Director and his deputies shall not engage themselves as natural persons in business with natural or legal persons who carry out activities in the field under the responsibility of the Agency, as members of administrative supervision and so on. So they can't even advise these companies. That's what we suggest. Yeah, well, you're not. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Business Yes, what's a second counseling than business cooperation? [[…]] The consultation shall be concluded on the basis of a contract and then on the basis of business cooperation. What's more than that? Speaking of those points, please, if you don't enter the word, because we can't communicate in this way. [[…]] Speaking of priority points, the law has already laid down this, and if you really believe that this current text is inappropriate, we have not received an amendment on your part, which means that you must probably agree somehow that it is sufficient, when and in what cases such a priority point is reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u91	You can't replicate the replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. First I give the word to Dr. Vinku Gorenak, then I give the word to you. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much. My performance is more related than to the amendments, directly to the amendments, to one other thing, to the question of a direct question to the Minister. Is he listening to me? Okay. Yeah, okay, thanks. Look, Minister. In 2014, the Constitutional Court repealed Articles 162 to 168. Two months ago, the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services unanimously, not by any opposition majority, but unanimously adopted a decision to amend the law by September. Now, July is here. I'm asking if you'll bring the marriage again or what it's like. For the sake of the public, I must say the following, but also for the sake of the coalition Members. Articles 162 to 168 talk about collecting data from telecommunications operators for the needs of the police, and the prosecution, of course, to investigate crimes. We don't have these articles today, I've already warned twice in this National Assembly that, regardless of what the Supreme Court has said, he knows the matter of trapping. So I ask the minister directly: ‘ Do you and when — if you can answer me sooner than in two hours — or when will you, if you will even correct these articles? If you intend to correct them, then let me draw your attention to what the European Directive says and what we have so far had a little too much written down that such data collection is at least bound by article 149.b of the Criminal Procedure Act and only for the worst crimes. It is my question whether you will correct these seven articles and when. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u93	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, you have the floor. After you, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u94	As far as the amendments we haven't submitted are concerned. The fact is that I have repeatedly pointed out this article on the Committee, and last but not least your first-reading fellow Member discussed this issue. Nothing has changed, but at this time, we have tabled amendments – and unfortunately you know that I have not been here for a while – that much has been called for. It means that we have given any further warning of the great problem and I remind you only of the fact that freedom of expression is not allowed to be restricted even in exceptional situations. Watch out for any means of communication. Thus these things are not as simple as you have taken them, as you once have, that the people of Slovenia are such that they like to cheat, and therefore you need to have more laws and rules. Something like that. Look, on the other hand, with our amendments, I don't agree with you. Family members can sign contracts, they can supply, but that's not enough. Those special or other circumstances, as you state, are not specific to me. It's too loose for me, it's too loose things, and then we all wonder if we have laws because people don't even understand them. If we're doing it, let's write it very specifically. I mean, I read that article differently than you, and here we are two, and probably lawyers would have three different opinions about what would happen. But the fact is that the matter is too small and is not sufficiently specified, given what happened in the past when such cooperation took place. And they're famous!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u95	Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Because I have relatively little time. Look, there are enough people in this society and in this country that we know enough to get to know each other on information, that we have enough zickleder to learn something else and that we can sit on these supervisory boards, regulators, and we don't have any business shares, not brothers, not sisters in these companies. This does not mean that they would not be better directors than those now set up politically. All this debate we have is a result of political intolerance for 25 years. That's one point. Second point. Now, if someone is worried that Janez Janša will turn off Twitter or, I don't know, Mr Brglez, who is a little more active lately, one of the other "accounts". If you get a little familiar with information technology, there are other ways to make such traffic so that your line will fall or the operator will be forced to shut it down. This can make you a slightly more intelligent child, from eight to ten years old. In short, this aspect is also out of the question. Of course, the issue we are not addressing, the neutrality of the Internet, the right to access and so on is very important and very relevant. But, you know, agreeing to this kind of story that you're going to the SMC right now -- and, dear God, you had the Education Minister, who we counted her in class, she was a plagiarist, she changed her last name and you put her in some important position. You have a gentleman in Desus who says it was the final time for him to come to heaven, and you already have a fourth Vice-President of the National Assembly in the SD. It would be hard for a man to take you seriously, you, the coalition, and your high staff, and I don't know what the morals are. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u97	Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will only respond to what may have not yet been explained by Members and what I have been directly challenged. Maybe it's about an advantage point first. They are set out in the Regulation on the Right to Network Connectivity Points, Official Journal 79/13, where they are specified. At the request of the information officer, it was added that this applies only to the extent and for as long as is strictly necessary. It is said that we have also narrowed the right of access according to the requirements of this broader public debate. As regards Mr Gorenak, these regulations, as you asked me, are probably familiar with – these articles have been annulled by the Constitutional Court. They have been annulled on the basis of a judgment that has fallen in the European Court of Justice, and this standard applies in Europe and cannot be set differently in Slovenia. If you are referring to the so-called retention database data, it is said how to provide this data for cases of investigations and other cases, let me say that in no case does this Regulation affect the bases already stored by operators for other purposes – for the purposes of accounting, traffic monitoring, locations and so on – and that these data are accessible on the basis of a court decision and are available to operators and, on the basis of a court decision, operators must also provide them when they have a basis for this court.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u99	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u100	Very well-intentioned replica. I know this Supreme Court decision, but be careful! In law, anyone who has passed the Law School knows something — that the law must set out the purpose, why the data is collected, and that it can be used only for that purpose. Now, the operators are storing the data, but they're storing it to send you, me, and everyone else an account. After you pay the bill – and I – – they have to destroy it because they don't need it anymore. Now it is simply that these data are sent to the police and to the Constitutional Court, I stress that there are dozens of cases in the Constitutional Court, if not hundreds of cases that challenge this. There is a high, high, high probability that they will succeed in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, my profound belief is that the legal basis for collecting this data must be re-organized. But you're right, there is this Supreme Court decision. However, see, this decision was made by Mr Masleš's signature. But we can trust him — we know how. I have also warned Mr Floriančič, the new President of the Supreme Court, of this matter, and quite honestly, that I think it would be right for you to write these articles on a new basis and thereby create a legal basis for the work of the police, the prosecution and everyone else. Because what they're collecting right now is for some other purpose, which I think is constitutionally controversial. Think about it, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u101	Colleagues and colleagues, I ask, would anyone else like to discuss Article 51 and the amendment of the SDS Group? I find that no, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the SDS Group's amendment and asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. Dr. Matić, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Here I want to show you, very plastic, how my colleagues from the SDS of these amendments went. Article 183a means the restriction of business. It simply states here that, of course, the operation is prohibited for the Director and his deputies, except in cases where there is business cooperation due to the use of publicly accessible services provided by natural or legal persons engaged in activities in the field under the responsibility of the Agency. What does that mean? This is said to be a business cooperation for the use of publicly available services, according to the domestic statement, this statement was made to enable the Director and the Deputy to have a mobile phone at all, because otherwise they should not have a mobile phone because they would have a business relationship with someone who controls it. However, the SDS proposes that this second paragraph be deleted and that it be written, “the prohibition of business cooperation referred to in the preceding paragraph shall also apply to its family members, who, under this law, are children, adoptive parents, adoptive parents, brothers, sisters and persons living with an individual in a joint household or an extra-marital community”. Now the lady from SDS has made it impossible for not only the director, his deputy, but all his relatives to another knee will not be able to conclude a contract with an operator so that they can have mobile phones in Slovenia, but they will probably have to go to Austria, Italy or Croatia and conclude these contracts there so that they can communicate with each other at all. This is just an approach that colleagues in the SDS have to simply suggest something populist and write it here, and they don't even know what they've done with it. It's a complete mess, and it's actually a full-blown stunt made of this amendment. Now, on all these matters, how to limit relatives, because we already had one director, Akos, who had a son who left something to him, the company, then went to the KPK, and the KPK found out what he found. This is said to have a system that works, and we also know that it is explicitly forbidden for directors, its deputies, to engage with certain companies or if their relatives cooperate with these companies. In fact, why family members should now be exposed to this extent is unusual. Because if we have a director, Akos, whose adoptive father, say, a small or white post office in Zgornji Kašelj, there is probably one situation. But if he's connected to a company that does big business, it's different. But here, of course, we have law enforcement agencies, we have KPK, we have been tested that it also works on a particular case that is not that far back. Such amendments, which lead to absurdities such as those contained in the SDS, I do not think can be supported. I think I've justified myself enough here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u103	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Matić, before you speak of the crumbling amendments, look at your marriage. We voted on the amendments for 20 minutes. Such a splinter as your government does — look! God has mercy! You're stealing time from us and from the country and from someone else. Let's stop for a second time with comments like that. But as for the family members, I told them where they came from. I think other countries have this in a similar way. You can read — those who deal professionally with these matters. And once again, absolutely, yes! If you run a business, you're related. Isn't that a little unusual? But you say the system works, the KPK works. Get out of here! But we haven't talked about a new commission before because the KPK doesn't work, but you know. The KPK only works when the power stations are to be viewed. But when we talk about big fish, it doesn't work. This is your minister. Now that the KPK is supposed to work, the KPK is still a problem. Now let's decide whether the KPK is a problem or the KPK is working. You obviously didn't sit on the Mandate-Election Commission, and you would see that the KPK problem is now because not all things agree on. Now your minister, when he was, wasn't talking about billions, but the KPK is working. That's when it worked. Now let's talk about whether the KPK works or the KPK doesn't work, and then we'll move on. But the fact is, if you're already fixing the law, give it so that it's somehow European acceptable. And another answer to a fellow SMC. It is not a matter of tweeting individuals, it is precisely what Mr Caf warned, and he has previously highlighted him as an expert. I believe that, according to a few pages of the record of human rights violations, there is something to look at from this record and, above all, the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u105	Mr. Simon Zajc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you. I'm gonna be a little short. I think it's important that we clarify what you and your amendment do. So you want to achieve that neither the relatives of the directors or his deputies can cooperate with the company controlled by this agency. At the same time, in this desire to do so, make sure that the company in which the director or his deputies have a share cannot conclude the contracting relationship. Dr. Matić spoke about this when he spoke about how accurate — or he used a different expression — how precise your amendment is. So you, in order that, in this desire that I can understand and that is, in fact, purely legitimate and we reach it with this law in fact, in this desire that neither wife nor so on can advise, you achieve that no company associated with this director, nor the contracting relationship can conclude. You may have overlooked this when you wrote this amendment because you deleted the second paragraph of Article 183. This is also one of the problems, and this is what Dr. Matić also warned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on the full-earth trial of preschool children with special needs. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 68 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr. Clear Murgel. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, Dr Jasni Murgel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! After these topics, the great ones we discussed at the preceding points, will, I believe, be a welcome topic in which we will talk about the child and his family, about a child with special needs. It seems very important to us that the adoption of this law, namely the creation of this law, including the financial consequences, has enabled and supported the Modern Centre Party, because without it this law could not be. I am very happy to open this – and of course other parliamentary groups have supported the law. It is clear how many signatures of the law have been, but very happy that I was personally very involved in the formation of this law to open it up, we will open a new chapter, when it is adopted, in the regulation of the situation of children with special needs, because at least at this early stage we will put it in a new position. What is that important acquisition? It is this that we will place the treatment of risky children and children with special needs in such a way that it will not only focus on the child but will focus on the whole family. We will ensure a link between the three key areas of life in which society, the state, institutions deal with children with special needs – health, education and social – and we will connect these activities. This has so far been the main shortcomings of the system, although there are elements of early treatment in these areas that I have mentioned, but they are not related to each other and then families, parents are looking for information, despite the fact that the situation is in itself difficult enough, and in all this very difficult to find. The main gain will be the creation of early-treatment centres to transform existing development clinics addressing children with special needs. We also discussed this a lot in the general debate on the treatment of the parental labour body. It is essential that these be the gravity centers for families that they can turn to and from which the implementation of an individual plan for the whole family and not just for the child will be monitored. So, that's an extension for the future. On the basis of this model, a new approach aimed at linking all these factors to the benefit of the family and children, we will also be able to think in the future when it comes to life. And it will also live on the basis of the implementation of the early-treatment pilot project, which has already begun in the three development clinics, and we will also be able to think in the future about improving the treatment system for children with special needs and families who have these children, in a more systematic and more similar way, which will later apply for the pre-school period. This seems to us to be a very important achievement that in the future, based on experience in the implementation of this law, we will also be able to overwind the next periods of the child's life and the person with special needs. So, we will start early treatment, and I strongly hope that in the future we will be able to continue with other periods of life, because we know that the preschool period ends very quickly and the children come to school, and then when they finish school, they have to work or live in some other form of employment. Let me mention what we're talking about today. We are talking about the financial consequences of the law, approximately €10 million. At the previous point, we talked about billions, some other amounts. It is important that we provide these funds here. As proponents, given that only two amendments to this Act have been tabled, we propose that a third consideration of the draft law, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, be held at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u109	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! At its 30th meeting, on 28 June 2017, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for a law on the integrated early treatment of pre-school children with special needs, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr. Clear Murgel. On the basis of Articles 119 and 120 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a preliminary hearing was also carried out by the Committee as a working mother at its 20th meeting on 19 October 2016. Amendments were tabled by Ambassador Jazna Murgel within the time limit and proposals for amendments to the Committee were also submitted to the Committee. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the right system and the technical and regulatory aspects. However, her representative pointed out that the time foreseen between the entry into force and the entry into force of the law was quite long and he also wanted further clarifications regarding the integration of individual private experts into the early treatment system. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. The Commission unanimously supports the overall organisation and system-wide regulation of the integrated early treatment of pre-school children with special needs. Following the introduction of the bill by the representative of the proposer, the Government's opinion was presented by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. She stressed that the Government supports the proposal for a law, since early treatment is the most important in the development of a child with special needs, and it must then be addressed in particular carefully and in an integrated manner. In the course of the debate, the representatives of individual institutions presented their opinions and welcomed the adoption of the bill. Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, also gave her position, who said that they had been paying attention to people with special needs for years and that it was wrong for parents of such children to have a reduced right with the Public Finance Balance Act by taking five days off. She also stressed the need to consider future responsibility for parents who know that they have such children and do not react in time. The other panellists, however, felt that the law would optimise the quality of the treatment of preschool children with special needs, meaning the concept of a new understanding of these children, that the law responds to the needs of people and that greater involvement of parents is important. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments and proposals for amendments to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u111	To present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž God. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport! The first-signed group of Members, Dr. Clear Murgel, is to the National Assembly on 14. 4. 2017 submitted a proposal for a comprehensive early treatment of pre-school children with special needs, resulting in the aim of providing and upgrading health, social protection and education services for children with special needs, for children with risk factors and their families during the pre-school period, i.e. from birth to school. The draft law introduces the following main solutions, which can somehow be combined or summarized into eleven areas, to ensure comprehensive treatment for children with special needs, for children with risk factors and their families from birth to entry into school; to identify early-treatment service providers and to link them through the assistance coordinator of the family providing information to parents and contractors for each child; to transform the development ambulances into early-treatment centres within a network that will be publicly accessible and also regionally deployed; to identify early-treatment services; to identify and send them to an early-treatment centre; to organise an early-treatment centre; to set up multi-disciplinary teams and to set up their tasks; to provide assistance to parents; to identify possible content of the individual assistance plan; to families; to connect the early-treatment centre with professionals and centres for pre-school education. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal, as you have it on the table, because early treatment is the most important in the development of a child who has special needs and then needs to be addressed in particular carefully and comprehensively. This can prevent many problems in school and later life. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal sets a framework for updating the existing system in this field of health, education and social protection. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u113	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment to Article 12 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD. As I see interest in the debate, I give the floor to Mr Saša Tabakovic. If anyone else wants to discuss it, please, he'll have the opportunity to apply later. Here you go, Mr. Tabaković. You have the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Given that the 12th and 15th amendments are very substantively linked, I would somehow briefly define myself to both at the same time. On the committee or working body, the vote on today's law has simply shown that, regardless of what our political affiliation is, we have united ourselves around the content and that there are no major derogations, and I believe that this will be the case in the plenary vote itself. Nor did these derogations concern the need for law in practice to live and serve the purpose for which it was actually written. In fact, the law is understood, made up of interresors and, as such, the study must also be carried out within the time limit required by the law. As already mentioned in the proposal's position, the main solutions to the law require the conversion of the development ambulances to early treatment centres, which is a publicly accessible and regionally distributed network which, of course, seeks to provide or somehow wants to ensure an integrated treatment of children with special needs, for children with risk factors and their families from birth to entry into school. This is, of course, no different from the individual approach and individual plan of each individual child and this plan forms an interdisciplinary team. With the amendment to Articles 12 and 15, we add a new line of individual treatment, which also recognises deafness as a special form of disability, which uses a number of adapted methods of communication, which take place in a tailored way and not only in sign language, to “normalise” their lives. This recognition is easily followed by amendments to the European professional trend and to organisations that point out that flexible communication between children and deaf blindness has been of exceptional importance since birth. This means that early intervention of experts is also necessary for these cases, and with the amendment we simply provide additional optional content and additional professional assistance for working with the deaf. As we say, we are following the goals, if you want, of equal or equal treatment, of early treatment of children, regardless of their medical specific needs. Therefore, as we say, in the SMC Group, we will support the amendments as well as, of course, the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u115	Colleagues, colleagues, please apply. Okay? Unless, of course, Dr. Jan Murgel would like to represent the proposer. No, no, no. So, I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. First of all, Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, I will be happy to support the law on early treatment of preschool children with special needs, which has been discussed for twenty years in this temple, but there has been no unwillingness or courage to be adopted. Today, I think that reason has prevailed, and I hope that this law will also be adopted unanimously today. Since the law will enter into force with 1. 1. 2019, we cannot allow the law to drift away in the years to come because of the possible priorities of other governments or because of the financial situation, as it has in some cases already been, so we must be honest with our parents so that we do not leave them alone again. I also expect that, on the basis of this law, the developmental outpatients will be strengthened and the current coverage will not change. It is true that this law will provide special psychological support for families and, of course, for spouses, consideration should also be given to the adoption of a law on the support of parents of children with special needs. I support the two amendments, of course, and I will only touch on Article 15 of the Act, which was put on the initiative of the Coalition on the part of the parental labour body and which eliminates the distinction between parents and the reimbursement of travel costs. So far, travel costs are paid back from countries only to those parents who have children involved in special social institutions and those who have children involved in developmental education or in kindergartens with programmes with an adjusted programme. So, with this amendment, we are now eliminating this irregularity. Now it is possible that the multidisciplinary team, as we have already mentioned, with parents, can agree that these parents will be reimbursed by the country for travel costs, that is, those involved in public kindergartens or in concessional kindergartens. Let me remind you that early treatment must not end with the completion of kindergarten, because these children will continue in primary school. That is, if we are talking about inclusion, they will also be in the primary school in regular departments and if there are, say, in a large section of five, six students who need special treatment, that is to say, students with special needs, and there will be only one teacher, it is unacceptable. This early treatment should also apply vertically up — primary school, high school, and so on. Let's say we have one example in the third grade, say, 26 students, five children with special needs with one teacher. It just doesn't work. A child with special needs needs an individual explanation, needs an additional approach, needs a study and so on. This should be kept in mind and certainly, if it is not a division of the department, it is necessary to provide an additional professional teacher, not an assistant. This teacher must also be equivalent to knowledge to deal with children with special needs. That's what you're saying. He needs to be trained. I very much welcome this law, and I say that this law needs to be upgraded by the fact that these children with special needs are specifically dealt with vertically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u117	Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you, Vice President. All in attendance, everyone! I look forward to this marriage myself. Above all, I am pleased that all Members, irrespective of the world-view definition, have supported the formation of this law, and I expect that such support – and it appears – will continue. That is why I would also like to express my firm belief at this time that future policy will have to, because the implementation of this law has been moved slightly into the future, that the policy of that time will take into account our general support and allow the law to truly live. For marriage really means for families, parents with children with special needs, indeed the possibility of great progress for a child who has suffered some primary deficit in the psychophysical field, as well as for the entire family system that needs to be reestablished, to redefine to this child and indeed, it can mean great progress. So whole. It is also important that centres for the integrated treatment of preschool children ensure that assistance and encouragement is interdisciplinary – this means that it enters this system of several different experts –; that assistance is quick – is said to be as early as possible when children’s brain functions are still plastic and receptive and can absorb this professional help – and that this is coordinated help to know what the left hand is doing, to know what the right hand is doing, to know what the right hand is doing, what the head is doing. And that's exactly what these centers are going to do. At the same time, I would stress that, in addition to these professional forms of assistance, it is also important for the child to have a climate in which he is born and in which he grows up to be able to benefit from such assistance. It is said that parents and relatives need some psychological help to accept this situation, to reorganize themselves, to make them aware that such a child in such a family feels safe and accepted, which is also a prerequisite for this help to fall to fertile ground. I also think that these amendments that we have before us are important, because deaf people really need specific approaches to communicate. This is the basis for any involvement in the social environment. And the fact that money will now be more justly distributed to reimburse costs, that parents who drive their children into developmental kindergartens will also be entitled to this money. In addition to this, I would also stress the importance of the fair regional development of these forms of aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u119	Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, and a very nice greeting to everyone! There is no doubt that our parliamentary group will fully support this law, as well as the two articles that place deafness on the disability list, which is of paramount importance. I fully agree with everything Mrs Marija Bachič has said about what will still have to be done to build on this law. Let me take a look back at how we got there. At the outset, I should like to reiterate my efforts to ensure that the proposal for a comprehensive early treatment of preschool children with special needs achieves its purpose as soon as possible. We still have time to update and update the rules and regulations in the law that many in our society urgently need. Scientific progress in health care, in psychiatry, in psychology, in pedopsychiatry, in physiotherapy, in pedagogy, in technology, not to mention, even in the way of life of today’s families – it is essential that we follow developments and make them meaningfully integrated into today’s proposal. I remember from the practice of treating hyperactive islands that were treated as behavioural disturbances when we first heard about autistic children, for the Y generation. All these problems in development have appeared early, and we have dealt with them in teams to the best of our ability, until it has been shown how much early treatment of children through development clinics and various experts who have realized with their individual treatment plans that without parents or a wider family will not work. Moreover, at the very beginning of the treatment of a preschool child with special needs, the parents of these children need the greatest help in terms of proper parenting for their child. However, leadership must be highly professional, multidisciplinary, synchronous, persistent and encouraging. Consider early diagnosis, which primarily brings medical treatment, which in many cases has proved unhealthy, sometimes even harmful. Guided parents first put themselves in the real world, that their child is first their own, without any self - blame or finding fault in another. Guided parents learn to set boundaries and to structure actions where necessary; to raise loving ones and to be persistent and consistent. All devices must be available and guided to parents, of course, so that they can also monitor children’s development, mostly without medication. The tools are an important element of child's progress, especially when we say that the child can't even see or hear. Such child’s shortcomings are due to the addition of this law so that they too will receive the professional treatment they need. We need quality staff to cooperate with our parents in order to communicate with their parents in an extremely important way. I want to do my best and serve everyone involved in the comprehensive early treatment of preschool children as soon as possible, as some will probably no longer have to help during the school period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u121	Jasna Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. I must say that I am extremely pleased with all this support, which has been from the very beginning, since the previous hearing, and from the first reading. Maybe it would be nice for the representatives to be there on the right, because we talk a lot about how important the child is. However, the signatures were very large on the part of the Members and also support in the first reading, and I do not think it is a matter of fear that there would also be in the next two votes that we will have. Perhaps only with regard to these amendments which have been tabled to clarify. The law itself applies to very broad groups of children. In fact, we have set it this way that it will cover a very broad group of children and in fact children with special needs that are defined to read, that it will be very clear to the Slovenian public, that we did not go to this definition to include individual groups, to divide them into some drawers, but we have established a very broad definition of a child with special needs precisely because it is very difficult in the early stages of the child's development to determine the final diagnosis at all. And then if a child fell out of that definition, there would be a risk that he and his family would not be treated under that law. Under the law, Article 3, children with special needs are children with developmental backlogs, deficits, obstacles or disturbances on the physical, cognitive, perceptive, socio-sensitive, contractual, and long-term diseases. These are children with special needs, but a group of children with risk factors is more widely included in the law, these are children with risk factors for developmental deficits, backlogs, obstacles or disruptions. So, we wanted and included in the law a very broad group of children who will be cut through these early-reading centres and will then be further determined where they will be sent to the treatment, part of which will be dealt with in the centre itself, and part will then be sent to the existing institutions that we have. So this need for an amendment is simply because of this, then in the implementation somehow, if I say so, the articles for deafnesses, which are already covered in the basic definition – of course in this broad definition are also covered. But in order not to have any doubts about this in determining the individual plan itself and then the physical aid, the assistance in handling it in kindergarten, we listened to the Deaf Society and decided essentially to take into account in an individual plan, if necessary, a special method of communication, which is not only sign language, because deaf people do not see sign language, and it is necessary to communicate as they do. And because many times in this legislation are often out of place, because they are really special and not very many groups, they fall out of these laws, we said that this specificity must be taken into account here, so that they may not be deprived of treatment and that in Article 12 it can then be added to enable them to communicate and learn adapted methods of communication with the deaf in kindergarten. So adapted methods of communication, not just sign language anger, because sign language may not happen enough. In this way, we are helping this group to obtain a more appropriate treatment in society, yes — what should I say? — according to the domestic way that they do not always fall through, when we say, in the Law on the Guidance of Children with Special Needs — there we have these indents of what are, who are children with special needs and we have a motion impediment, deaf, blind – maybe sometimes fall out of these groups and may not have the most appropriate treatment. In order to avoid this, we have now put these two amendments at second reading to ensure that these children also receive this treatment and that there is no doubt in the individual plan itself and in the determination of the forms of aid provided for in Articles 12 and 15 whether they will be properly treated. I think it's the least we can do as a society. It is therefore not a matter for one group to specifically recognise certain rights and specifically include them, but rather for this group, which is also defined and covered in this broad definition of a child with special needs and a child with risk factors, to give a specific indication of the treatment it will receive in accordance with the factors it has and which are specific to others, to other groups of children with special needs or risk factors. Only for this reason are these two amendments. I am also pleased that the support for these two amendments, otherwise in the process of adopting the law, was also accepted at the second reading by the Home Committee by the amendments proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service and tried to make the law as feasible as possible. Of course, there is also work to be done on illegal acts. Here too, I hope that we will cooperate and prepare such acts on the basis of the experience of the pilot project, which will now take place for two years. So we'll have enough ground to make such submarital acts, so that all things, as far as possible, and perhaps, if necessary, some provision here will be changed, what will be added. The important thing is that we have a foundation. I am very happy, too, personally, that there are two years of efforts, two years of efforts in this area that are not always visible outside. And it doesn't matter if they see each other, it's important that the final result is that we have one initial step and we will be able to carry it out and build on it, and also that we will give a signal to all these families that the country will take care of them in one way, that we don't care about these families and that we will reward the system. That is why I thank you all who will support this marriage in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u123	The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting for me, too! Practically everything has been said in previous explanations, so I will simply repeat that from the very beginning I have expressed my support for this law because I thought it was a very noble act. I now express my support, of course, for the two amendments, in particular because of this argument, which has now been highlighted in the end. The purpose of marriage here is very clear and useful. Personally, I think that in this case it is even a mirror of society, as I have already mentioned earlier, that you are particularly sensitive and sensitive to such a problem, and I believe that the expressed willingness to provide practical support for this law is a clear picture of this society, and this is certainly to be welcomed. I also welcome the fact that it is a cross-cutting issue that, in this respect, the matter has been practically supported by all stakeholders. I know that there have also been some comments and different opinions here, but now that we have a result before us, I believe that this aspect must be stressed as well. Today it was stressed whether there would be another government, if there was a different policy, what would happen to this law. I will say this: probably with such support and in such an important case, this law can only be corrected. In particular, the fact that the pilot programme will come into force here will probably also bring some experience, which will be more support even for the possible qualitative upgrade of this programme. So there really is nothing more to add here and only in the context of one of the pronouns who said that everything was good to this law. In the end, let me wish all the good things to those who will benefit from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you very much. As I note that no one wants to discuss this point anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on. I am putting to the debate Article 15 of this amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups. If anyone wants to add anything else, I'm sure they don't, so I'm closing the debate. [[…]] We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day, that's first of all a proposal for a law on space management. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 52 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on space regulation is an integrated recast of an area which is one of the key to the successful sustainable development of Slovenia, whose main characteristics over the last 15 years are also the fragmentation of the comprehensive matter of various laws, its sectoralisation through sectoral regulations and the absence of some key mechanisms to achieve appropriate spatial development. Today, the area of space regulation is covered by three system laws, of which the original Space Regulation Act deals in fact only with the issue of spatial measures. The Spatial Planning Act is governed by municipal spatial planning, land equipment and spatial information technology, the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest in Areas of State Spatial Planning and some special questions on the placement of State infrastructure facilities. The proposal for a new law combines their content, builds it up and connects it and offers a full normative instrument for regulating space. In some segments, this means primarily an evolutionary upgrade to existing solutions so that past errors cannot be repeated by interrupting and changing the foundations of the system just as they are being established. Here is a major unhindered progress in the preparation of municipal spatial plans. In many ways, however, the law brings rooting news. In the area of spatial planning, it is therefore proposed to enact mechanisms for active coordination of legitimate but often conflicting public interests in an area where the central role of the Government for spatial development is given to the Commission and the possibility of carrying out a procedure to predominate public benefit. The proposal also enhances the flexibility of implementation spatial planning through the establishment of a local verification institute as an instrument for facilitating complementary interventions into the space for individual resettlement, individual derogations from spatial acts and temporary use of space. A new procedure for planning and allowing spatial arrangements of State importance is introduced, in principle all in one place and in one procedure. Strong emphasis has been given so far to the absent but key aspect of strategic planning at the regional level. For the first time, spatial planning at sea is also regulated. The law also pays attention to the regulation of so-called non-construction interventions in the area by renouncing the decree on regulating the image of settlements and landscapes. It allows for better and early public participation and provides for judicial protection in respect of accepted spatial implementing acts and identifies the status of non-governmental organisations working in this area in the public interest. A number of innovations are also brought by part of the law aimed at land policy measures. For the current space management system, it is almost entirely equivalent to spatial planning, i.e. prescribing the use of space in advance, while further management of such a planned space is absent, even in the most crucial segment of building land. The law also updates existing spatial measures, such as decommissioning, temporary measures for space regulation and administrative comassation. As regards the preliminary right, it also allows the municipality to apply it on agricultural land in the long-term development area. The law lays down rules for the formation of construction plots of buildings as basic cells of urbanism and establishes the consent of municipalities to change these parcels in order to ensure order and functionality in the space. Building land development rates and their registration shall be introduced with a view to reviewing their management, which shall be reflected in the relevant stock and supply of suitable municipally equipped land at competitive prices. By accommodating the municipal contribution, the municipality is allowed to reimburse more quickly the costs it has with the municipal equipment of the land and the owners of such land stimulates them to be activated as soon as possible. A new financial mechanism of land policy shall be introduced in the form of a fee for unused building land. More in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. We're starting with an emissary group of modern center parties, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with the team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new spatial regulation law repeals and replaces and combines in one place the content of the applicable Spatial Planning Act, the Spatial Planning Act and the Spatial Planning Act. These laws have been passed a long time ago and have undergone many changes. Such fragmentation in the legal and sub-legislative acts has not been effective in practice, as it has not been possible to achieve a transparent and stable system of public interest in the area of space regulation, on the one hand, and a non-comprehensible, simple and secure legal environment for private investment, on the other. The proposal for a new space regulation law builds on the already introduced system of state and municipal spatial planning and land policy measures. It also introduces a number of innovations, among which we point out in particular: it consistently implements the principle of coordination of interests and cooperation between participants; it defines the state space order as a place where rules, guidelines and good practice are collected; it introduces an instrument to dominate one public benefit over another when there is a conflict of public interest and there is no harmonised solution at the professional level; it establishes a Commission for Spatial Development of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which gives an opinion on the dominance of one public benefit over another; and the Space Council, which acts as an expert consultative body of the Ministry of the Environment and Space; it enables the public to participate better and more early in the preparation of spatial acts; it prioritises migration into urban settlements; it defines the status of NGOs operating in the public interest in the area of space regulation; it gives them the opportunity to invest in legal resources against spatial implementing acts. The objectives pursued by the proposed legislation are also important: it covers the area of space regulation in a single law; it establishes a clear and transparent system of spatial acts based on separation between strategic and implementing acts and allows greater flexibility and efficiency of spatial planning, while not undermining existing basic spatial planning instruments such as the municipal spatial planning plan; it introduces spatial strategic planning at a regional level; it establishes legal bases for spatial planning at the sea; it establishes a new procedure for planning spatial arrangements of national importance in principle all in one place and in one procedure from planning to allowing; it sets up a new procedure for planning of spatial spatial plans as the basic spatial acts of the municipality with the aim of making them more efficient in the field; it establishes an institution of local verification as a flexible instrument for facilitating complementary interventions in the area of individual settlement; it sets aside the rules for the development of the land by means of land; it sets aside from the rules of the spatial development policy and establishes a more efficient building structure. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the innovations introduced and the objectives set offer a lot of opportunities for more efficient space management, so that administrative procedures for the implementation of investments will take place faster and easier, while at the same time allowing the principles of sustainable development to be respected. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we also believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u129	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the minister with the team! Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! In front of us is a third of the laws on placement in space, the proposal for a law on space regulation, ZUREP-2. Slovenia received the first roofing arrangement in the area of space regulation and construction of buildings at the beginning of 2003. It was the Law on the Planning of Space, the ZUREP-1 and the Law on the Construction of Objects of the ZGO-1. Prior to that, the former Republic legislation had been applied throughout the independent state. Although it was an important legal area and although this law was supposed to lay permanent regulatory foundations, there was soon a fragmentation of this regime. ZUreP-1 already partially replaced the Spatial Planning Act, the ZPPP Plan, which removed and separately regulated the area of spatial planning, land equipment for construction and spatial information technology, i.e. its main content. The GNP itself has changed and complemented several times, but most of all it has been affected by the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest in a Space, which has separately addressed the issue of the preparation of State spatial plans and has specifically addressed some other related issues. This type of normative fragmentation has led to the need for an integrated overhaul of this legislative area. In addition to the new Act on the regulation of space, the new Construction Law and the new Act on architectural and engineering activities are a result of this. The main solutions that this ZureP-2 brings. ZUreP-2 establishes a set of state space regulation rules which are currently subject to the Slovenia Spatial Order Regulation and which represent the content of the space regulation rules. State space regulation rules are arranged in two places. The basic rules are incorporated into the law itself, while the other rules will be adopted by the government regulation and become part of the State Spatial Order. There are also new participants in space management. As a novelty, the Commission for Spatial Development of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which gives an opinion as a super-resort working body in the event of the uncoordinated interests of space regulators and in the event of the predominance of one public advantage over another, is established. It is a political body offered professional support by the Space Council and only by the Ministry of Environment and Space. It shall have its role as confirmer of certain decisions or an opinionator. The other authority or other authority responsible for the area is the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is one of the operators of the space management system, which has an added role as custodian of the landscape with the new law, not just the custodian of the settlement, as has been the case with practice. And the third body, the Space Council of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is composed of 13 members, external experts in the field of space regulation, is newly established, and is formed by representatives of professional associations, colleges, associations of municipalities, professional institutions and NGOs. The Spatial Council will work at meetings and provide professional support for the functioning of the Ministry and the Spatial Development Commission of the Government of Slovenia. The legal basis for NGOs acting in the public interest in the area of space regulation is also given, which also gives them a specific position in law against spatial acts. Non-governmental organisations with public interest status shall be given the opportunity to make legal remedies against spatial implementing acts. ZUreP-2 foresees three mandatory professional bases: urban and landscape design, which we have already known, and a new elaborate of the economy. Spatial strategic planning is carried out in a broader way through the Slovenian Spatial Development Strategy, which provides the legal basis with ZUREP-2, and in a narrower sense through the preparation of a regional spatial plan, which is a novelty, and a municipal spatial plan. This is a matter of two spatial strategic acts, the first being prepared at the level of the development region, as is the result of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development and the second at the level of the municipality and is intended to replace the strategic part of the current municipal spatial plans. The adoption of the municipal spatial plan by law is not mandatory, except for the municipal municipalities, as all its contents can be processed at the regional spatial plan level. A new, flexible and efficient state spatial planning process is being introduced. ZUreP-2 summarises the substance of the current Law on the Placement of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest and regulates both municipal and state spatial planning in the same law. The State Spatial Planning System is being substantially upgraded in view of the material so far, as it allows for a flexible procedure that ends either with the adoption of a VAT Regulation or the course of a joint planning and authorisation process with the issue of a comprehensive authorisation. Full operation is a building permit, environmental consensus, and is also a spatial act that has the effects of the VAT. Changes in relation to the current procedure for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan are also based on the State Spatial Planning Process, as at least the design of spatial arrangements of State importance is to be newly coordinated at regional level in the regional spatial plan. The law does not introduce legislation on municipal spatial plans for drastic changes. The municipal spatial plan remains the same as before, but some content will be burdened in the future. The strategic part passes into the municipal spatial plan or regional spatial plan, and the content of the newly introduced decree on the regulation of the image of settlements and landscapes is also excluded. The procedure for the adoption of the municipal spatial plan is modified mainly in the initial stage, based on the preparation points, i.e. the analysis of space and the consideration of initiatives, not just by collecting initiatives and their non-critical transposition into the spatial act. In addition, the law lays the groundwork for municipalities to lay down a tax for the treatment of private initiatives which constitute an initiative to change the intended use of space. Certain changes in the direction of greater flexibility and dissemination of the purpose of use are also introduced in the municipality's detailed spatial plan. Thus, it is not necessarily bound to the territory of one municipality, nor to the closed areas. The law does not provide for mandatory content of the municipal detailed spatial plan, but provides a set of content that adapts to a specific purpose or project. ZUreP-2 establishes a new local inspection institute through which the municipality can adapt and specify the exact size of the building plots in individual accommodation, allows for individual derogations from spatial implementation conditions, allows for complementary interventions and allows temporary use of the space, with a view to activating unrealised or abandoned buildings for a period until their execution. Spatial measures are also being reintroduced into land policy. Except for those temporary measures to ensure spatial planning, which have been partially regulated so far in the ZUREP-1 and partly in other regulations. In addition to the upgrading and renewal of existing pre-commitment mechanisms, which is now extended to the State, the delimitation and limitation of property rights, the legal comassation and measures for the renovation, the law introduces or more appropriately summarizes the mechanisms for the declaration of a public good instrument for the determination of maintenance and the consent to change the land boundary in the area of building plots. With regard to land equipment for construction, a renewed system of payment of municipal contributions is introduced, in particular by introducing the possibility of accommodating that part of land to the municipalities, allowing for reimbursement of part of the costs incurred by municipal equipment at the time of the equipment and not only when the investor appears and the building permit is issued. It is also a new tax instrument for unused building land, defined by the legislator as a mechanism for the activation of those land where, despite past investments in the context of the preparation of acts and municipal equipment, there are no public-law barriers. The municipalities are faced with many proposals for the creation of new municipally equipped building sites, despite the existing empty walled-up land, which poses a serious obstacle to the spatial development of municipalities in terms of economic efficiency. As far as construction plots are concerned, buildings. The aim of the proposer is to ensure the permanent existence of the rights of each owner of the building, i.e. not only of the investor, but also of all its legal successors as future owners of the land included in the building plot. The building plot of the planned building may consist only of the land on which such rights are granted to each owner of the building, which enables him to use such land permanently and unobstructedly for the purpose of regular use of the building. The proposed solutions to the building plot constitute a key systemic innovation in our legal order. Among other things, it will require appropriate adaptation of existing real estate records and preparation of the administration, professions, investors and participants in the real estate market to the new rules. Therefore, the implementation of the amended rules is delayed for a longer period than the remaining legal solutions. The proposed solutions regarding the building plot of the building, compared to the regulation so far, constitute certain new restrictions on legal traffic, in so far as, for a period after the construction of the building, they no longer allow separate legal traffic with the building and the land intended for its regular use or, to the extent that it restricts the possibility that the investor or its individual legal successor, as the owner of the building, will cancel the land rights intended for its regular use. In this case, the applicant refers to the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Constitution — Special conditions for the use of land — and the first paragraph of Article 67 of the Constitution — Method of acquisition and use of property. For both the new ZUreP-2 and the construction law, it is essential that the operation of the spatial information system as a public web portal be put in place as soon as possible, through which certain activities will be carried out in the preparation of spatial acts, first and foremost, in the public publication as well as in the submission of building permits below. It will also provide a catalogue of legal regimes and allow for the presentation of the situation of the premises, thereby increasing legal certainty and ensuring the integrity of information for all participants in these proceedings. All procedures for investors, for citizens, for businesses in one place should be regulated in order to have the last real timeline for the implementation of the planned projects. At the same time, it is necessary to harmonise procedures with the Administrative Procedure Act in order to allow a possible comment on the project only at a certain stage of the procedure, to reduce the set of procedures requiring special consent and to ensure consistent respect for the principle that silence is an authorisation, in agreement, necessary before the application for a building permit is made. Timely and manageable procedures should be put in place and the personal responsibility of the authorities which do not provide for resolution within the time limit. Spatial management requires sustained and active concern, decisive and systematic action, both for local and global reasons. The space is one of the constitutional elements of statehood and its regulation has a significant impact on all other social areas, so it must be interdisciplinary, professionally supported, comprehensive and lasting in order to ensure a balanced and coherent development of all Slovenian regions. Due to the very complex situation in the space, especially in the current Slovenia, which impedes the normal development of the country, deep concern for spatial order is essential. Spatial problems are highly strategic in nature, and we must therefore give them more attention to their concerns. Spatial policy is not only a service of urbanisation but must also be the professional guardian of the biodiversity and cultural diversity of nature, seas, rivers and sources of drinking water, agricultural soil, clean atmosphere, the entire natural and cultural heritage, and a guide to tourism development in conjunction with nature. The main objective of all of these, including very intertwined efforts, must be based on the concept of coordinated regional and sustainable development. The spatial planning process must be carried out in a coordinated manner at the level of the country, landscape and municipalities. The competences of the space decision-making process must be distributed between the country, the province and the municipalities in accordance with the importance of the planned interventions. In doing so, the procedures for planning interventions to the premises and procedures for obtaining administrative permits must be transparent, clear and understandable to the citizen, in particular fair, short and effective. Spatial planning must take into account efforts to achieve sustainable development and therefore is based not only on economic origins but also on ethical ones. We must strive for a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment. The relationship to the environment must be based on the principles of precaution and prevention. It is cheaper and more effective to prevent environmental damage than to treat its consequences. Slovenia must maintain and maintain the landscape identity, migration and landscape characteristics and support a meaningful continuation of the protection of protected areas. Biodiversity is a particularly valuable form of the natural wealth of Slovenia, which we must continue to preserve. The long-term concept of the development of Slovenia is of vital importance for the use of renewable resources and the cost-saving use of energy. We need to support such forms of spatial development that will allow for a small dependence on economic centres. There is a need to ensure a good infrastructure connection between the centres and the individual areas. In border and demographic areas at risk, the policy of additional incentives for economic development should be provided. In view of the fact that more than half of Slovenia's territory is part of a development-threatening area and that less than one fifth of the population lives in this area, the development strategy of Slovenia, the national rural development programme and measures to improve the situation in the developing weak areas should be adopted as soon as possible. Slovenia is being demographically threatened in both border and hill areas, becoming an ageing society with all the consequences it has to bear. That is why the country must develop an integrated strategy that will lead to more favourable socio-demographic trends, and the precondition for this is economic growth, more coherent economic and regional development. All of this is also the basis of the law we are talking about today, which is the Law on Spatial Planning. The Law on the Regulation of Space, ZUREP-2, has already received several comments from professional associations, engineering chambers, chambers for architecture and space of Slovenia, municipalities, municipal inspection services, universities in Ljubljana, the Faculty of Architecture in Ljubljana and the University of Maribor, as well as from the Faculty of Construction, Transport Engineering and Architecture. It also has observations on this Act by the Supreme Court, which considers that the system of judicial protection against spatial acts is designed to make it impossible to exercise judicial control in practice. The solution is unclear and incompatible with the system-wide regulation of the administrative dispute. We do not support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because of all these inadequacies of the law at this first stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u131	Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister with the team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have a third law ahead of us from a package of extensive renovations of construction and spatial legislation that will replace the current law on spatial planning, space regulation and spatial arrangements. It is therefore a roof law that will regulate the area of space and covers state rules on space regulation, participants in space regulation, spatial planning at national and municipal level, land policy, instruments for monitoring the situation in space and the provision of related information services. The current system of state and municipal spatial planning, which had some weaknesses, will be upgraded by a new law. One of the expected advantages of the law is that the principle of coordination of interests and cooperation among participants in the regulation of space will be consistently implemented. We hope that this means that, as a result, there will be fewer complaints and obstacles to the realisation of investments, as almost all major investments report loud objections to different stakeholders, usually when the project is too far away or has already invested a lot of capital. In the Desus Group, we estimate that the bill will in fact allow for better and early public participation in the preparation of spatial acts and highlight judicial protection with regard to the implementing acts adopted. The proposal brings another important innovation: from the previous municipal spatial plans, the strategic part and part of the decision to regulate the image of settlements and the landscape will be removed, so that the municipal spatial plan becomes a municipal spatial implementation act that will determine the intended use of space and spatial implementation conditions. According to the competent ministry, there will be no change for municipalities that have not yet adopted municipal spatial plans under existing legislation under the new law. There are about a third of such congregations without an accepted municipal spatial plan. However, such congregations are expected to no longer be able to issue construction permits after 2021, which means that these congregations will be punished in some way. In the area of spatial planning of State importance, inter alia, it will be possible to implement a joint planning and authorisation procedure in which the investor will be granted a comprehensive authorisation, which will constitute a building permit at the same time, environmental consent and a spatial implementing act. I mentioned earlier that many major investments often have different interests that stop the realization of a project. In order to avoid such suspensions, the law will introduce an instrument of overriding one public benefit to another when there is a conflict of public interest and there is no harmonised solution at the professional level. The opinion will be submitted by the new Government Commission for Spatial Development, which will also consult the newly established Spatial Council of the Ministry. Non-governmental organisations that will be given a status of public interest in the area of space regulation will also be of greater importance, giving them the opportunity to file complaints against spatial implementing acts. A change will also take place in the area of land policy, where new measures and financial mechanisms will be introduced, such as the State's pre-emptive right, the construction of public goods, the fee for unused buildings and the like. The next welcome novelty is the establishment of a local inspection institute through which the municipality will be able to adapt the shape and size of the area of the buildings on a separate settlement, allow for an individual derogation from the spatial implementation conditions and to carry out complementary interventions into the space or allow temporary use of the space. However, I must point out that, as is the case with the first two laws in the construction area, also with this law for a wide variety of interests and opinions on how to prepare the legal basis for spatial regulation. Regardless of the long-term nature of the coordination, we are confident that there will be still a number of criticisms about the law, because the ministry had to find a compromise between each other, and not everyone will be satisfied with it. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u133	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, therefore, we are considering the content of the first of the series of three laws on the regulation of space, interventions to the premises and construction of buildings. Although the Act on Architecture and Engineering and the Construction Law have already been discussed and perhaps it would be right even to consider the Law on Space Regulation first, it is good and important that we deal with all three laws in the short run. And we can see that, as with the first two laws, even in its implementation and final support, it is crucial that, through the second reading, we can find that, at least in the most important part, it has the widest possible support of the professional public, users, especially local communities, and that it will be possible to conclude that, as such, it is also based on its initial presentation, including from the words of the Minister, the law truly brings key and important refreshments, updates and, above all, removes illogicality, bureaucratic obstacles, non-lifelessness, which have been demonstrated in the context of the practice of applying existing legislation. The social democrats understand the existing law in the troika, together with the transitional two, as an important step towards implementing the reform efforts that this coalition has made at the time of this mandate. Allow me not to repeat in a jest the matrix that the previous speakers also had to address only the key things that seem particularly important to us and deserve praise and enlightenment at this first reading. This law will allow two or more public interests to emerge within the strategic documents and the direction of the country, the Government may decide – with the appropriate support of the consultative body composed of representatives and representatives of the profession – what is the primary public interest, what is the dominant public interest. This is particularly important because key projects of placing into space and intervention over the past 25 years show some way of the country's inability to provide more quickly and effectively with strategic infrastructure projects, whether in the field of logistics infrastructure, energy infrastructure or wider regulation of landscape, landscape infrastructure. Secondly, we consider the Social Democrats to be extremely important that, through the law, it is possible to recognize the rationality of the use of space and that, by means of the rules laid down by the law, of course, also by means of sub-legislative acts that will follow and will be particularly important for the area of space regulation, it is clear that space is not an unlimited good and that primary space is a good public interest and is public good and that it must be treated very rationally. In this context, the present law realizes another of the commitments of the coalition treaty, which we have committed ourselves to taking a step forward in our society. We are, of course, talking about democracy and inclusion in the adoption of important laws, in this case those who refer to interference in space and the regulation of space. Here we will allow the acquisition of public interest or status in the public interest to many non-governmental organisations, which are of course a key shareholder and significantly prevent the abuse of placement processes to the detriment of quality of life, to the detriment of the quality of environmental protection, in order to be able to do so on an appropriate legal basis, with appropriate status and associated with the appropriate means for their operation. This means, of course, that we are moving forward towards civic inclusion and participation of people in what is most important, this is the question of in which and in what quality environment they will live. Otherwise, as already stated in previous presentations and also in the opening presentation of the Minister, the law lays down mandatory professional grounds for regulating the premises – we are talking in the core about urban design, landscape design and elaboration of the economy. Finally, in the second reading, some effort will be needed to clear up quite a bit of the comments of local communities, particularly the municipalities, on this latter. Otherwise, the law introduces a regional spatial plan, introduces a new state-level procedure or a new state-level spatial planning process that combines two processes – which is particularly important, for example, in State-important projects, such as the need to build an additional high-voltage network today, which would allow for the development and further expansion of the iron industry, for example, in the Mežiški Valley, and due to the longevity of the procedures, including the inter-resortive imbalances and, of course, the necessity of integrating the local interests of civil initiatives takes much longer than everyone would have wanted, together with both the investor and the people waiting for these high-quality jobs. Thus, in this part, the law can also be seen as an important contribution to industrial policy and to the development of the potential that Slovenia has in this area and, of course, is key to ensuring further growth in the future. This is, of course, followed by a comprehensive reform of the land policy, an upgrade of the municipal spatial planning system and a number of other key updates of the law, which in some ways, together with previous laws, as has already been said, modernises the entire system of regulation and intervention into space and also brings Slovenia closer in this way to informing the most competitive countries in this area and, at the same time, I hope, the countries with the most democratic degree of involvement of all stakeholders, including NGOs and people who are the final users of this law at all the most important points. That is why we will support the Social Democrats in the first reading of the law, and we want to actively address key professional opinions and professional opinion in the second reading as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u135	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u136	Dear President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps my debate will look like I'm from another Parliament, like my predecessor, or from another time period. I'll be a little different about this. However, I have been involved in spatial planning since 1996, when the local community changed spatial acts as part of the former municipality. I've been following this legislation ever since. I'm not going to say that now this law that is being passed, which is the first one to be dealt with today, is a shot to the knee, but a shot has passed, for sure, and I'm going to try to prove it. In fact, if such strategic legislation or systemic legislation as this is already changing, in my opinion and in the opinion of many experts with experience, it would also be necessary to determine first what the legal situation is in the Republic of Slovenia. This means what the situation is, what this situation means to us and how we will solve it and then approach resolution. In Slovenia we face the fact that we have some 10,000 black-built buildings, about 300,000 total facilities, which are built in violation of the rules that need to be legalised. We have 23 thousand – about – municipal roads, which are categorised municipal roads and public goods, which are owned by natural persons, and the Constitutional Court has already annulled 17 municipalities of decisions on the categorisation of municipal roads. Then we already have regional spatial acts in law, but we have no provinces. And who will accept them, on which organ? Maybe after the new policy goes in the direction of administrative thefts, that the administrative boundaries, the extended deadline of the country, will accept this? It is not clear from this law. It is also necessary to improve records for the purposes of the European real estate tax, because we know that the latter was abolished due to records. We can obtain records — we know what they are now — only by legalizing objects so that we have accurate records. A law on mass evaluation is being prepared — how can we evaluate it if we do not have the right records? But those records that they are, we know that they also deviate from reality. What does this legislation now solve? The construction law simplifies these procedures, and it really solves something. However, this spatial law, as you have seen, does not solve this problem, given the comments of both representatives of the municipalities and certain others, including those of the space regulators, as I have listed it, but it is very important. In addition, we are also facing our country – I think we are unique in Europe at the price of municipally equipped building sites for economic development. Not only on time, but also on price terms is unacceptable. The sparrows are chirping in Serbia: you get a building permit in a few months, in Croatia in one month, in Austria in 14 days and in Slovenia in 5 to 6 years – the Akrapovic case, and there are even more. Why are the prices so high? Because they sell plots on which municipal infrastructure is built, it was built by the municipality, sold by parcel owners and blackmailed, speculators and we continue to support these speculators, including this legislation. By also giving specific status to certain space regulators so that they can subsequently complain about the spatial act at any time, but they do not themselves have any right views on the basis of which spatial planners could determine what is protected where, but at the stage of the adoption process, they invent what else would be necessary, various analyses and I do not know what else, and the procedures are only prolonging and exasperating. Yesterday, I had a question, one such case, but this is a case followed by sub-laws, where I am particularly afraid of what will come out of this. None of what I have said must be resolved by this law. In my opinion, we should adopt a law on legalisations as soon as possible, such as Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia, to give a certain deadline and benefits by then and to legalise as soon as possible. This would give the country money from the group, the municipality of municipal contributions and the state of records for the introduction of real estate tax. Now there are certain possibilities of legalization, just like that, something at a time, but apparently there will be a lot of people waiting for the facility to be 20 years old, and then going to legalize it because no one is chasing it. It is imprecise and I think that there have been really severe pressures from the back of certain lobbying, I don't know, by the various companies that produce these spatial acts or in any way are involved in the production of spatial acts. If I simplify, the dictatorship of bureaucrats continues, and we're not solving anything. In practice, you will see what will happen or how it will go. I'm afraid of what they're going to bring in more submarital acts, what anyone else is going to make up. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group we do not support this law in the first reading. On this basis, however, I doubt that, at the time of adoption both on the committee and in the second reading, this can change so much that, in a short period of time, investors, individuals wishing to build their own home will be able to obtain a building permit without mass service, which they will have to obtain from the owners of the road, so that in the meantime any other municipalities will be able to obtain a decision by the Constitutional Court to repeal the decree on the categorisation of municipal roads, so that investors, both domestic and foreign, can obtain a building permit in due course of time, to the municipally equipped building land for the needs of investors, both domestic and foreign, as this law does not resolve any of this. The procedures will continue to be such, even the profession is true, at least as long as they have been, if not longer, because there are still certain institutes involved, they determine the time when they will resolve disputes between the space regulators. This law was prepared as some kind of correction in some way — I do not know which — beyond the positions of the congregations and representatives of the congregations, for they have quite a criticism. Speaking of the preliminary right to agricultural land in order to establish a municipality, the municipality must have a programme to acquire land – an adopted annual programme, an individual programme – and only then can it buy some land. This takes time, these procedures take time. I don't know why we can't put economic infrastructure in the public interest with us, why we can't empty someone in the public interest. Aren't new jobs a public interest that should be over some interest in building, I don't know, a library or some school. Because this is how we need new jobs and economic growth. Obviously, we're doing the opposite! We're pushing investors away. Not just strangers, we send ours across the border. Why is this possible in neighbouring Croatia, which has exactly the same situation as with us 20 years ago, being regulated completely differently from with us? It seems like we have some speculators, those who bought agricultural land, then somehow turned them into building plots, and now they want to make a fabulous profit with some officials or owners of space management, which are an additional security guard to invent something at some competitive location, and they're hampering it. Otherwise, I can't understand it. Why are there 100, 120 and more euros per square meter and only 20 square metres in neighbouring Austria? Why? The answer is that in neighbouring Austria the municipality buys agricultural land at the actual price, prices of actual use with some addition or replaces it with a farmer’s land. He can put the land somewhere else. Even with us, it would be possible for us to go from the land fund to the congregations and have the land available — even in the case of Magne. Then the municipality itself municipally equips this land, and the municipalities also have quarryes or transport infrastructure and other municipal infrastructures — we cannot. In our case, we had situations where the state first sued all the presidents of the local community or the directors of companies that used this public goods in the past and charged with large theft. Among them was I, the only mayor back then. Then these quarryes came under the property of large construction companies, building a highway cross, in order to earn well with material. Finally, these companies went bankrupt and Slovenia did not have construction material because companies were bankrupt and did not operate quarrying. This situation continues. We have quite a few such quarryes open, where the owner is in liquidation or bankruptcy, there is no master. Why don't we go along the way of the neighbouring countries and provide us with a fair price, at the lowest possible price, so that all the costs are paid, offer the investor who will create new jobs, bring capital, and thus the country will benefit. But no! We continue with existing practice with this law. The problems I have cited do not even solve the construction law. We had debates in the State Council, quite turbulent, and these stakeholders were huge in terms of the problem of municipal roads, decrees, and the categorization of municipal roads. Lots of ideas. I believe that it would be an urgent solution to seek and incorporate into both these laws, if not, we have done nothing. We'll be able to watch on TV some week, what kind of problems individual investors have. Someone will ask us about health for once; I think we should have done it a long time ago — not once. But we have those responsible. I don't know why we don't listen to the congregation. We did get the mayors out of Parliament because maybe someone was too smart and we replaced them with professors, and now we're doing better. This law brings nothing, and the next government, obviously it will do nothing here, will have huge problems to resolve it. The cadastral income is also coming, which will increase over the years, the real estate tax will be no substitute for it, and we will have major problems. Or those who will be in this temple of democracy, for we also play with the patience of those who have chosen us. Therefore, once again, in the New Slovenia Group we do not support this law in the first reading, and I doubt that there will be any significant changes, even in the next reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u137	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman! Nice hello to you all! Nor will I somehow follow the matrix to repeat what the law brings, but of course I will give the position and comment to the Left. I'm going to start with three cases of scandalous intro practices. First example: The Government and the Coalition with the Intervention Act, in the heat of the right opposition, arrange for the construction of a painting shop on 100 hectares of the highest quality agricultural land; the choice of space is dictated in this case by a foreign investor. The second example, the northern part of the third development axis, obviously with coalition support, will replace the government by destroying more than 100 hectares of agricultural land with a credit rating of 60 to 90, while the cheaper variant would otherwise destroy only 13 hectares of agricultural land with a credit rating of 35. And that's not all – like in the TV shop. The chosen solution will also result in the destruction of the portion of irrigation handles on subsidised systems on the already executed hop plant harvesting – by the way one of the best in the world. Third case, Kemis, we've talked about a lot. Now, ask yourself after health as he spoke before me. These examples point to the fact that the area of space and the environment has been, I hope to say, 20 years in this society and the country has been neglected, that, of course, they are also in the background here, particularly when it comes to infrastructure projects, as well as projects of too many shopping centres and similar, large speculative interests. When this government, often supported by both the coalition and the right opposition in three years, has repeatedly shown that it does not care too much about the environment or the space, the law proposes, of course, we must be concerned and very careful in Levica. I must honestly say that, however, a sufficiently long public debate and the commitment of many actors from the spatial professions and civil society has led us to thank them somehow that this draft law before us is as acceptable as it is, and that it does not represent at least a step backwards in regulating the space. That's a fact. It is also a good thing that under one roof is arranged a space that has been broken down into three laws. In this way, the area becomes more regulated and also more transparent, and this practice should also be followed in some other important areas. We also see very positive the introduction of regional spatial plans. Why? Social space development, including infrastructure in the broadest sense, should be planned at regional level, including libraries and schools mentioned earlier. The municipalities are simply too small a spatial aggregation and also, despite all due respect for people who co-create local self-government, are humanely fed for something like that. Of course, the bill brings quite a few novelties that are disputed or at least potentially controversial for us from the Left and for not such a small part of the spatial profession. I'll give them some information. An implementation problem could be the addition of economic and social aspects to the environmental assessment of placement in space, although, by the way, this was already an integral part of the serious PSCs that we were working there in the 1990s. What does that mean? This may mean that there will be a balance between whether a new one, if you want Kemis, a paint shop, a cement plant or something like that, and if you want a new one, we will have the interest of an investor, including a country, including municipalities or budget charges at some cost. In spite of negative environmental impacts, the decision can be subordinated to the economic interests of capital and, in the case of uncoordinated interests, it will be decided by the government itself or probably by an obedient body. If the government is as or like this one, then it can be clear to us that environmental assessment is likely to become secondary. The next potentially controversial novelty is a joint planning and authorisation process that ends with the issue of a comprehensive authorisation. The procedure is intended to, frankly speaking, notably the installation of transport and energy infrastructure. The explanation somehow shows that the public will only be involved in the process in the final stages of State spatial planning. What does that mean? This means, only when all the analyses, conclusions, regulations and the like have been adopted and more or less completed. The public will not give opinions on the procedures for selecting the most appropriate variants and not on the procedures for preparing documentation. Then we will – what? We'll probably be marked when some pianist suggests to the minister or minister, eco-terrorists. The possibility for municipalities to prescribe a fee for initiatives to change the use of premises may also be problematic. In fact, this can mean that the one with less money will not be able to afford this opportunity to take initiatives. Taxes, of course, are not likely to be excessively high, although the law does not restrict them, but such taxes may also have a dissuasive effect in essence. These are just some of the concerns that will prevent us from supporting the marriage in Levica at first reading. Nevertheless, we recognize that there are some improvements to the current regulation of space regulation, so we will not oppose it, but we will try to improve it with amendments. Somehow a comment on what has been said now, because others have also enjoyed the debate here. You know, behind all this is the issue of spatial and environmental education. In this House I have already mentioned a case of practice, I think, a previous reference by the English Parliament when the enlarged Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space was sent to a 14-day school based on the basis of spatial regulation, urbanism and architecture. It was also said that the space is public good, rarely public good, if I put it that way, and resulting from this and also from our Constitution is also a space and environment that goes beyond coalitions and beyond any governments. In this respect, both coalitions and the opposition and governments must be more responsible about this topic. Very often this coalition likes to use the word simplification. I am a member of the Ljubljana School of Spatial Sociology and we have been writing about spatial antagonisms in the 1980s. Of course, in the environment and space we have a number of interests, these interests collide with us, of course we have to listen to the professions, but in the end there are weighty and political decisions, because we have a good enough modern constitution, which I often mention, which is our starting point in these decisions. Even this series, which he spoke with a number of experiences before me, flies to another issue that we cannot completely bring into space law; of course, he flies to the issue of control and inspection services. Including some KPK, which will be so composed that it can function normally and, of course, also with people in the area who will be much more favoured by space and environment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u139	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Then he's got the word "magic." Matthew Tonin. Get ready, mags. Branislav Rajić and mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u140	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Let me begin by congratulating the team that went into this law. You know, there are so many lobbyists in this area, so many different interests that whoever's doing this must, of course, count on such and different pressures, on such and different desires. The law before us today is written, look at the spies on 300 pages. Not on 300 pages, I made a mistake in 300 articles. Whenever we have laws that count 300 and more articles before us, of course, we Members can always be a little skeptical and untrustworthy. And I guarantee that every detail in all 300 articles is impossible to study, and then this detail can make life worse for some. Of course, a large number of articles are also a unique opportunity for all-powerful lobbyists to write down in one article a solution that will then allow them, in the implementation of this law, to be able to make a lot of money, in the sense that they will have to do something and earn from it. Another thing that appears in such a 300 - article law is that a great deal of things are written down to be settled in the law. And once again, we come up with what I repeatedly say is that we can have a super law on paper, and implementation can be a big problem because things can complicate sub-marital acts. The Minister and I have already had one such duel in the trash, which we have now successfully resolved and regulated, and most likely these regulations are huge in other laws. You know that some statistics have been made, that we have about 18,000 different regulations under the law, which is enormous. Here, too, I would agree with that one mayor, I think the Domajor Mayor, said: "These countries are not governed by laws, not ministers, not politicians, not anyone, but officials with the drafting and prescription of sub-laws." Because ministers and Members of Parliament are changing and officials remain. But this is just one of my trips into the concept and the preparation of this law. In principle, I am also in the position, for example, that this team, which has drafted the law here, is better off having one law in which we are trying to integrate the area in an integrated manner, than if we have a whole series of individual laws, at least in this conceptual one I agree. Making room and also putting it into space, I think it is a key thing for the development of the economy. Perhaps when I listened to a variety of views today, it was not enough to stress that regulating space, putting into space is the most important thing for economic growth, for jobs and also for the development of Slovenia. It must be admitted that the current legislation in this area is impossible. Because if she were normal, we probably wouldn't need a special investment law for Magna and stuff like that. I think it is this Magna law that has shown all the misery of our current legislation in putting objects in space and regulating the space itself and that these things need to be dealt with and changed in some way. When we walk with a group of Members on the ground, it is also too high taxes, which is the standard, one of the most exposed problems, when we meet entrepreneurs and economists, putting in space and the longevity of procedures, so that they can extend their hall or that they can increase the scope of their operations. Everyone wants legislation in this area, for example, to create clarity and simplicity. That's what I think are the three axioms that should be followed by legislation concerning space regulation. In this debate, I would touch on one thing that has so far been impossible and has caused enormous damage in Slovenia. You have, I don't know, at least 15, but you can also have more space regulators. This sounds very strange now, but according to local words, when municipalities make municipal spatial plans or municipal detailed spatial plans, you have a whole range of space regulators that give opinions, consensus and similar things about these spatial acts. The problem arises when a representative of the same country decides in a diametric way; when one claims that this is the case, the other one is different. I come from an area, such as the Kamni-command area, where the Command business zone was built and they fell into this bureaucratic cycle, when one state authority or one agency allowed something, and the other banned it, within the same country. Then how do we proceed? And sometimes it is impossible for a hungry person to understand how there is obviously no command or instance in this country that would say that this government representative and this government representative are fighting each other and have diametrically opposite views of who is now making a decision in this case. Now it's just that the business zone of Command is being sent to the courts where they're collapsing. The Court decides something, then another state institution complains about this verdict and we're back in the beginning and we're circling and we're circling and nothing moves. This causes economic damage to the business zone, which, of course, could also sell the area to interested companies and cannot therefore be sold. That is why I welcomed the solution envisaged by this new law, in particular in Article 19 when it comes to the predominance of the public benefit. At least I see this provision or this set of some of the rules covered by Article 19 in this sense. The most plastic in the sense that, for example, it solves such cases as we know in the business zone of the Command, when the two authorities of the same country decide differently and then play ping-pong in courts, of course suffering the economy and people. This Article 19 speaks of the fact that in certain cases one public advantage may prevail over another. And in the second paragraph of this article, it now states when it can be applied. I will give you these four indents and you will see that one is unclear or may be problematic. In view of the fact that we are today in the first discussion of the law when we talk about the general guidelines and guidelines of this law, I think it is worth pointing out at this point. It states that public benefits can be used in cases of urgent reasons for achieving the public benefit laid down by law or other national development or protection act. I'll try to explain this a little bit more at home, as I understand. This is an example of Magne or an example of such special investments when this national assembly can adopt a law and say that this is so important to us that it is necessary to carry out. In this sense, I see this provision and I must say that I have no problem here. If we move forward, the second indent is that this can be used if there are no other professionally acceptable and appropriate solutions to realize this public benefit that would not harm other public benefits. I don't understand this and I'd ask the team if it could explain what it means. This is so complicated that I have read it five times, but I can’t imagine what is meant by these provisions, or if you can describe what you meant by it at home. Because otherwise it seems to me, in terms of what I started my debate, that in a marriage that has 300 members, you can always find a line or a phrase where things that are well thought out, then make these things difficult and complicated to be useless. I'd like to ask you this second indent if you could explain it a little bit. The third indent then states that this can be applied if the expected effect of a public advantage which prevails is significantly greater than the adverse consequences for the public benefit, above the benefit which has been publicly prevailed. The matter seems to me very clearly written, and it seems very easy to understand. Well, logically, if one advantage is greater than the other, the matter is clear. The fourth indent states that this can be applied if the procedures for the coordination of interests were previously carried out, which I understand that if the two state institutions are at odds with each other, they must be at least an attempt to mediate and coordinate between them before the Government can definitively arbitrarily decide. Okay, I don't have a problem with that. It is true that the procedure will be somewhat prolonged or delayed, but fine, the matter is relatively clear. In fact, I expect most of this provision, because everything else that has already been positively exposed today would be unfair, even though I am the opposition Member, to say that everything is without connection and that no effort has been made to move things forward and improve. This certainly is true, but at the same time it is true that in the law-planned novelties are not so revolutionary that the current regulation of the space would put a vital value on its head and speed it up with light speed. And that's true. Because I know there are a lot of different interests in this area, you can't possibly imagine how many people want to achieve their own interests here. This is why my expectations for these changes are not high, but my key expectation is precisely because of the things I have witnessed on the ground. The largest right in the area, right in the area of managing two conflicts between the two institutions. The issue which bothers me is clearly this second indent of Article 19(2), which is not to be understood, and for which I fear that a well-meaning article will complicate it to a non-life dimension. I would ask very nicely if the proponents could write this thing down more clearly. Not only did they explain this session, but they also made it more clear to the second reading of an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u141	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare for mag. Bojana Muršič and Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone! The nature of parliamentary disputes is based on the opposition proving that it is better than a coalition. So again today we have heard that the bill on regulating space is a shot to the knee. Yes, a shot to the knee of the opposition. I don't understand the difficulty of continuing the dictatorship of bureaucrats. We are talking about simplified procedures, uniform permits and consents, rapid procedures, resolving derogations from possible implementing acts, i.e. any improvements under current legislation. And again, it's a dictatorship of bureaucrats. Of course not. We have also faced markedly normative fragmentation of spatial legislation and now it is time to make a transparent and stable system of space regulation. It will also allow for a simple and safe investment analysis of the environment for individuals and also for economists. We are also aware that some 15, 20 years have passed since the beginning of the harmonisation of our old legislation with Europe. As a result, a number of other laws have emerged, notably sectoral laws and regulations, which have allowed this legislation to be implemented in Europe. This is mainly the area of environmental protection, conservation of nature, protection of cultural heritage, water management and agricultural land. The law also builds on a system of state and municipal spatial planning and land policy measures. In doing so, I would like to say quite a few important innovations, which I myself have assessed from my current practice as a real move forward. An instrument of predominance of one public benefit shall be introduced in the event of a conflict of public interest. This has often been the case in new urban acts when it was very difficult to determine who was right. More effective and early public participation is also possible and there is a possibility of judicial protection when it comes to the adoption of spatial implementing acts. What is particularly important and what seems to me to be of quality is the priority of directing migration to urban areas. In Slovenia we have a problem that the pressure on construction in rural areas is very strange, very unconsistent, atypical and to the detriment of the natural environment. In this sense, this law certainly brings about a better regulation that will prevent these matters. It also allows for an individual derogation from the spatial implementation conditions, which is important in the case of each particular facility or planned project, when due to a slightity the administrative unit was most often prevented from issuing a building permit only because the act was too rigid. This can now be resolved by the introduction of a new law. It also allows additional operations to be carried out into the premises or also allows temporary use of the space. The news is also that a new way of planning spatial arrangements of state importance is being introduced. If you remember, once for every section of the highway or for a larger building the state importance of the procedures was extremely long. When the regulatory act was reached, the building permit was pending, and an environmental permit was expected. This now simplifies and unites into one procedure, then this area is also considered as a spatial implementing act. In the light of Magna's projects and the second track, however, it is clear to me why the opponents do not smell this new legislation. My colleague Lah just bitched that we're driving investors to neighboring countries. In previous sessions, however, he strongly justified why the Magna project should not continue. At that time, there was nothing to worry about that the investor would be exiled to Hungary. The law also updates the role of electronic commerce in the preparation and adoption of spatial acts through the spatial information system and commits itself to monitoring, analysing the situation in space, which I think is particularly good for the entire population of our country to be accessible to everyone. From my design practice, I know too well what bureaucratic dictatorship means, and in this bill I see only the possibility that this dictatorship will be no more or that it will be much less. I also see the possibility of improving the visibility of order in the space and the implementation of sustainable development in Slovenia. Unfortunately, even so high and noble objectives were not strong enough and noble enough for the opposition to vote in favour of this law. As in other subjects, it is obvious that this government is doing well and must therefore insist on opposition. Since it is a matter of concern mainly for children, but they have already been used in another, less important stories for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u143	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about a very important law, both from the point of view of an individual and society, because it has an impact on the quality of our lives, so today I would expect more Members to be in this Chamber, but unfortunately the team from the Ministry is good, and we Members do not know whether we are watching on television, but I think this is very, very important. The same legislation, which was adopted in 2003, has changed several times and has been regulated in several laws. Therefore, it seems very important to me that the ministry has faced this great problem and has somehow settled and given us this very extensive law. It is true that the law contains almost 300 articles, and it is also very important that we listen to all other interested people, both the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, including ZMOS, also the local community, the Municipality of Ljubljana, which has provided us with very correct and concrete amendments. I further expect that the Ministry will examine these proposals and include them in the law itself if necessary or with substantial arguments. It is important that the law regulates things comprehensively, from planning at national level as well as to the implementation plan at local level or detailed planning for individual investments. It is important to pursue the objective of sustainable development by maintaining quality living conditions, quality space, visibility in space, and the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage, to which we have recently behaved very stepmotherly. However, planning should reduce the likelihood of accidents. We've even been getting these lately. Particular care must be taken to protect the public interest. In spatial planning, it is very important for me to stress that the objective of not overly building is being pursued and that sustainable development is taken into account, so that the new needs in the space are primarily provided with a reconstruction that can achieve the quality of the already populated space in different ways. The law builds on the system of state and municipal spatial planning and land policy measures, with quite a few new developments that we have heard in the positions of the parliamentary groups today, so I will not talk about this much. I really expect to take into account the comments made by all interested parties in the preparation of this law, namely the ZOS, SOS, the Municipal Municipality of Ljubljana, as well as the Faculty of Biotech in Ljubljana, which we have also received. It is crucial that spatial legislation is implemented quickly and effectively, so that it will not happen to us that investors will flee Slovenia because of too slow procedures, so that we can get close to them and keep them in our environment or Slovenia as much as possible. Perhaps at this point I would only ask the Ministry to present the financial measures that this proposal will have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u145	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Most of you, in all the criticisms of the existing situation, mentioned by those who have been in politics for the past quarter of the century to the point of public interest, public benefit and urgency. Of course, the festival tape – hurry slowly. You speak in such a way that there is an environment and space on one side, on the other hand there are investors. That's the wrong logic at the starting point. When it came to blasphemousness, I hope to say, the amendment of the ZVO, if you remember, was the State Council including representatives of the economy there and my trifle on the same side versus all others. These are not exclusive categories, these are related matters. Another time. The fact is, we have a very scattered network of settlements. A little less than 6 grand. And we all want everything everywhere. This is also true in a society and a country where much less has been stolen, if I speak domestically, because the “stumfa” is much more full, it is not possible. Yesterday I was talking about reforming local self-government, and I think we need some serious thought here. Not to think that the disadvantaged will be even less deprived, but to think in a way, if I say a little plastically, that instead of the bad asphalted roads, with which we will have problems with maintenance, we will again be able to make a good macadam. Very domestically. The coordination of the various space regulators was widely discussed. On the one hand, it is a serious problem and it is a problem of the consequences of our quotas, “no matter what it is, what it is,” you could be dragged out, because you are the largest coalition party, you cannot agree between your ministries, and on the other hand we are living in the 21st Perplex century and someone is looking at something from one side, someone from the other. Because of the three cases I mentioned earlier, the Jewish team should be going crazy. She's not crazy, but she's a little typical, so I hope to even claim esdevian duality. Yeah, well, the agricultural land will go, but what do we really want? Public interest, public interest. Comparison with Austria, comparison with Croatia. You know, the key public interest and the key interest and benefit is the reflection of the existing system. It is a criticism of the political economy, it is a fact that in 20 years you have seduced this country, that man, so most people experience it, only the sausage where it is cut, as much as can be cut by taxes, is the fact that 3/4 of people in this society and the country earn less than the average wage, is the fact that half of the pensioners are affected by poverty. And that's something that I hope the next composition of the National Assembly will solve. Read what Franček Drenovac wrote in the last two Saturday annexes. And this is also related to the environment and space. I often say, and I don't want to blame people, but as a spatial sociologist, if I look at the bytes of people in this country who managed to collect money, then I see that we have some serious problem. Because they're like chickens. To be honest with you. I'll finish it very personally. Now I've been gone for a few days. I took my leave before this session. With my daughter, the youngest, I took my counselor to Northern Italy, we visited one of Paladi's villas, to see an eight-year-old child moving into a rural space, to understand what is a serious relation to space and understanding of space, to understand from the difference between Ljubljana's mayor and Koželj, what is the meaning of arcades that are not closed in the way that they are closed nearby. And that's what we need. Maybe it wouldn't be wrong, I don't know that Bane, my colleague Lah, and I, my colleague Krivec, are sometimes taking Parliament through Slovenia to such an education that we will somehow be more sensitized to space and that we will also better understand some extensive law. Because these sectoral roof laws are extensive. That's the energy, that's the penalty. It's just a simple fact. And what really bothers me is crazy anti-intellectualism. My colleague Lah, a certain professor is also the mayor and vice versa, it may also happen, and we also need to establish a political re-affirmation of bureaucracy. In this affirmative sense, as they say in the Anglo-Saxon system, a civilian servant, who will be responsible, who will watch and think, will act as if something that will not be bribed for not knowing what kind of trip some gifts will be given. And that's also why we need a different economy so that all these people will also have more money. Then somehow we'll get a different view of the environment and space. [[..]] The law itself, even if we try so hard, will not change that. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u147	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and later Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u148	Mr President, thank you for saying so. A nice welcome to the Ministry's many representations! I think that they have also demonstrated their project approach to the difficult regulation of legislation through a broad agenda. We also talked to the minister yesterday, touched the environmental forests, and there we found some of the same content of thinking, which I am glad to do. The solution in this law shows the interdisciplinary nature of the project's problem as one that has to be solved, which we have been solving for 20 years, almost as long as we put in the second track, and these are not simple matters. Little surprise to me, I remember the discussions of my colleague Lach, the placement of an investment by a foreigner who wanted to bring him into his congregation, and how that didn't work. We have taken the same initiatives on the committee several times, but let's work this out somehow. On the other hand, I see that Levica criticizes, fights for jobs to give people a job, but when we get to some placement of the third development axis, which would link Koroška to Ljubljana and give us the opportunity to develop when we put the highway in Prekmurje, because we had to pull it somewhere, where we should make the tunnel, but sometimes we really act like we're yelling at a lot, let's arrange something when the coalition makes one law, but you're still so smart that I won't say. Let's calm down these discussions a little bit, and let's face it, this is a systemic regulation of space regulation. That during this period we had to adapt to the European directives that have introduced additional legislation, and we could say that we had a dozen interwoven laws here that have handled this issue in one way or another and have been very long. I live in Koroška, you get all the papers over the border in a week. Young people are leaving, not just for economic reasons, maybe because you're literally doing everything within a week. You go to the congregation, you bring those euros to the other side of the border, and you can start building. Similarly, in placing large economic infrastructure projects, which we are now putting in one way or another. As I mentioned earlier, we all often cry out where the projects are when we do this, but it gets stuck at some remote or on the road or infrastructure. So I think that this solution, which is now on the table, gives quality, not only answers, solutions and systematic regulation, simplifies, also gives in certain points greater powers to the state and commissions, when it is necessary to recognize the public good of a project, to put it in place and also to prevent anyone who sometimes wants to bargain but complain left, right, up and down and then to place a third axis on Koroška for 20 years. Despite the fact that we have now done so successfully, I believe that this law offers solutions that will enable faster polycentric development of Slovenia, faster placement so that there will be no different two-track management of procedures at the municipal, state and regional levels. Here, too, I see a positive shift here to transfer this from the level of municipalities to the regions by certain regional spatial placements. One region must recognize at a certain point what is important to it, whether it is a road, a remote control, an industrial facility or tourism, so that it does not disperse to some local, partial municipal interests. This is, in my opinion, a major problem with our local arrangements to have a crowd of congregations. When they're more than three mayors, it's hard to figure out where they're gonna take a road. So here I see the legislative guidelines in this direction, so that these things run faster. Let me repeat, the law covers the area of space regulation, sets up a clear, transparent system of spatial acts, introduces spatial strategic planning at the regional level. We need to unify ourselves in certain regions and place projects that are more important in this area. It is especially good that the principle is all in one place, where there are faster procedures, so that young people do not need to go to Austria, where you get these documents quickly, so that they can make easier decisions about building in our country. Then the establishment of a local verification institute as a flexible instrument. Here, too, I see a simplification of the procedure, which in certain situations caused long-term procedures for smaller buildings, and therefore probably caused a flood of black buildings. Then the modernisation of land policy measures with a view to achieving better use of space. And the establishment of rules for the identification of construction plots. The law also introduces an instrument of public benefit over another when there is a conflict of public interest. It is also important here that this instrument is envisaged and that the law also allows for more early public participation in the preparation of spatial acts. In particular, I think it is a good solution to the establishment of a Commission for Spatial Development of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will give an opinion as a working body on the superiority of one public benefit over another. This was the practice, as I mentioned earlier, that we must nevertheless give the Government the authority to assess, in conflict of interests, what is some greater public benefit, which is in line with strategic government documents. Of course, this commission is also being built up by the Spatial Council of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which will also facilitate the work of this government. I would say that this is one important move towards better legislation in this area. After a long period of time, however, we are receiving one new law, which is also being amended, so that I will also support it in further procedures. I see that the team has made a qualitative approach to this project and I want the law to be successfully implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u149	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mrs Minister and Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! It is very widely known that actual spatial documentation in Slovenia is not a tool for development in both accommodation and space management, since it is not only the installation of certain infrastructure facilities, it is a very wide area. With this new proposal of the ZUreP-2 law, I have some questions or I can weigh where I have more questions or on the existing law that is now in force or on this new proposal that is now on the table. But I have to say, I'm in a very big dilemma. This new law proposes the introduction of new participants in space regulation. I don't think he's holding that river when you want one thing not to go, you start setting up commissions and spreading the circle of participants in some procedure. These are examples from the practice where you add, introduce new steps, new procedures and expand the circle of participants, prolong the path to the goal. That my claim is true, however, is in this explanation, when I look at their powers, a new Commission for Spatial Development of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is established. But what's her job? It shall give its opinion in the case of non-coordinated interests of the regulators in the space and in the case of the domination of one public advantage over another. Those who give opinions are a hundred, they call it. Who decides? It's just a hoax of responsibility. Please state one who will make the decision. That's why these procedures are so long-term, nobody decides anything. We're just setting up two new committees, and we have two new opinions. These are unnecessary steps. Or give them clear orders to follow what they decide to do. Further the spatial world. There is a new establishment of a Spatial Council of 13 members, with external experts exclusively in the area of space regulation. But look at their assignments. The Space Council will operate at meetings and provide professional support. 13 dignitaries will sit at the meetings and listen to such and different and other and third and fourth things. Such an expert council should get a finished product on the table and make an expert opinion on it. Officials must sit at the meetings, not the professional council. By doing so, you only extend and the Commission and the Council of Experts have a worse status than a third official at the Ministry. Both have no status on the newly established commission. You don't decide anything. You can participate in the meetings. Is that productive? This proposal is very bad as far as these two new stakeholders are concerned when we read their tasks and responsibilities. We further introduce a regional spatial plan. A spatial order was introduced for the congregations. The municipalities have not yet completed their spatial plans, as they should have, such as the legislative guidelines and the Ministry itself, and we are now introducing a new regional spatial plan. Do we have a regional division of the Republic of Slovenia? Is this a special spatial regional division? Who will be the bearer of regional development or of this spatial development? Who will perform this task if we do not have regions in Slovenia? Is this going to be the Ministry now? The three of you will be for this region, and the three of you will be for that region, and the six will sit together and make spatial coordination between the two regions. Will the creators be mayors of the municipalities? There's a lot of questions here. And then also covering up a spatial or regional spatial act over a municipal act. Now, let us take the case of one congregation, which has done a very good spatial act very carefully and will now be covered by a poorly crafted regional act. For that congregation that has done nothing, a bad regional act will be good or better because it has nothing now. What about those congregations that have worked so hard and have invested a lot of knowledge and, after all, money to have a good spatial act, but now they will somehow be bound by a regional spatial act? These are questions that will be raised tomorrow in practice in the light of these proposals and on these open issues that appear here in this context. Well, I don't just expose criticism or some dissatisfaction. These are the facts that will appear in practice tomorrow. These are the facts. And there's a lot here. open questions. It is true that we are in the first reading and which we have completed, the changes are still possible to bring into this marriage, but both of the two segments that I counted are bad here, they are not good. They need to be changed or given, I don't know, some new basis that this thing will actually work in practice. Now let us look at the location for spatial design of national importance, which will be re-coordinated at regional level with regional spatial plans. There was no need for regional coordination now, and the matter did not go anywhere. Now we are entering the regional plans here, so we have one step in between – but now this will go faster? Who will be the decision-maker at regional level? Who will be the institution or person to decide at regional level? This is said to introduce another step in the implementation of projects of spatial arrangements of State importance. We are taking an additional step, this is true regional coordination. We don't even have regions yet. And also about the congregations. This is not really a new thing, but even now the municipalities have the basis to account for it. [[…]] It is more about exploiting existing spatial designs. So that's not new. These two segments of my questions present a serious problem in the implementation of this law. I would therefore like to ask for answers on how you specifically view these segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u151	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam President. In this part of the debate a number of things were exposed. I thank all of you for giving me and your associates a confession. True, two years of work and effort have been put into drafting this legislation. Thank you. I will now respond to some specific comments, but I would like to be clear enough in my implementation. I've got a lot of time, so I'm sorry if I'm too boring. If we go to Article 19 – public benefits prevail. This is one of the procedures which has now not been followed in terms of preparing this predominance of public benefit. It is true, however, that this predominance is limited in public benefits. In these four indents this is well recorded when the use of the dominant public benefit may begin. However, this second indent is somehow intended for possible fictitious scenarios in decision-making or decision-making. It is a matter of examining serious alternatives and variants, i.e. solutions, before carrying out the public benefit exercise. Only then will it approach the supremacy if there are no acceptable or feasible options without domination. We may write a different word below, but this was the purpose of this second indent in order to avoid the abuse of this procedure. Then I would like to say that the comments which have been transmitted from the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is contrary to what the Aarhus Convention requires of us — the Aarhus Convention requires legal protection — we have incorporated it into the law itself. If the court disagrees with this and feels that this is not necessary, I admit, we cannot do this differently with the experts. The Aarhus Convention is also important for all other laws. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have already paid a lot of attention to this in the environmental work. It is now being implemented in spatial legislation. We also have a Commission's inquiry procedure at the Ministry, i.e. a pilot, and I can't imagine that we wouldn't be able to do that now that we're changing legislation. With regard to the municipal contribution, it is true that in the spatial act, we are talking more about not fully charging it immediately, but calculating the deposit. This is mainly the purpose of those who, in the years to come, initially reduced the facility with some kind of documentation, to the smallest possible municipal contribution, and then increased the facility in the following procedures. In fact, the municipality had no opportunity to charge the municipal contribution after this florist. That we do not agree with the congregations, but we have already told them. I think that this will be a matter of resolution or your decisions, i.e. the decisions of Members. When the law is discussed on the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, we will talk about whether it is given to the investor to decide when to start building a municipal contribution, whether to leave it to the investor, whether it is his free decision, and at that time to obtain a construction permit, there is also a possibility of transport with such land, and there is no problem with the funds needed to pay the municipal contribution, then there is no difficulty in returning the utility contribution if construction does not take place, or whether we will order the municipalities and the investor to pay the municipal contribution when the building permit is paid. Here I confess, I ask myself many times when it is addressed to us, if Members understand exactly when they speak in favour of the investor and when they speak in favour of the congregations. If they know, I'll take it and take it. I've been working on building permits myself, and I know what the difficulties were in returning the municipal contribution. The building permit was valid for two years and the municipality was unable to repay the municipal contribution previously paid and the decision on the building permit issued cannot be repealed. We now have a five-year building permit, which means that for five years such an investor will not be able to receive a remunerated municipal contribution. But I think it's a real decision and I'm not really opposed to another option. Here I think we'll find a solution soon. Comments from the Association of Experts and Appreciators. You know how much abuse there have been in the previous procedures of transporting these properties. We at the Ministry also had another idea of how to solve this, and unfortunately we failed in cooperation with other ministries. I imagine that these evaluation solutions will remain, but it is possible to resolve this in a more appropriate way in later periods. To explain these financial consequences is too long, they are detailed. They're positive and they're negative. For the negative, in the first indent, we shall undertake regional spatial planning. I'd put it together a little bit. Some of us really want regions. In this case, we rely on development agencies. There's 12 of them. Why is that? The mayors of neighbouring municipalities are coming to the Ministry. One municipality also has a planned regional road within the agreed municipal spatial plan, ending at the border with the neighbouring municipality. He's not moving on. The neighboring congregation of the spatial plan will not change, nor will it have any need, since this regional road, in fact, serves this other congregation, which has already arranged something, has been routed. Are we going to go to the D.N.N. now for 500 meters or one kilometer of road? These regional spatial plans are not meant to be so in the air. In fact, they summarize congregational spatial plans and are complemented when there is any need for them. There's a lot of these needs. If we go to Magno now. I believe you're always talking about Magna. But the Magna law, under the adage, only speaks of debauchery. In fact, this clearance is not necessary in this case at all, and this land acquisition process has already been completed. Spatial planning, however, is an amendment to the OPN, the municipal spatial plan. By all rules, this procedure has been carried out. When it was necessary to provide some additional or new agricultural land and one part of the forest area on the border with the neighbouring municipality was cut down, they resisted in this neighbouring municipality. Well, this regional level of spatial planning could, in this case, have been eliminated in the planning phase. I have a lot of attention or a lot of courage to focus on this regional planning. Maybe I'm wrong, I'm going to get run over by time, but I'm saying this mainly from the cases where these partial DNs are now being talked about. We already covered things pretty well with the DDPs, but there are other smaller sections, and if we take this third development axis, we don't have to solve everything within the DN. These regional spatial acts might solve something much faster. It is true that this information system for spatial plans is already ready. A few more months, and he'll be alive, and what I'm saying will be easier to see once it's looked at. But it is not envisaged that these regional spatial plans are above municipal plans. I'm sure you don't. However, in connection with border areas or if a matter goes beyond two or three congregations, they can also resolve certain matters so as not to interfere with this local area with the State’s spatial plans. You don't have to do this many times. The interests of mayors are often the same in neighbouring municipalities. When we meet with them, we find that, in fact, these state spatial plans often interfere with their territory and their space, and we would resolve this with much less effort. The regional spatial plan, I don't think it's unrealistic that it's very real. If we are talking about industrial zones, this regional level of planning will be the one that, I am sure, will quickly come to the conclusion that spatial plans will enable investment in economic development. As a last resort, the newly established Space Council of the Ministry of the Environment and Space for these financial consequences. I'll take a look around here again on a practical case. This is the third development axis, this corridor F2-2 Schentrupert-Velenje. Maybe they're not all D.N.N. But years and years of spatial planning, and one government comes and says, and now we're going to give everything that's been done, to start with, another government comes along, and then our government says that this is the very corridor that needs to be implemented. [[…]] Of course, it was a matter of prevailing public interest. As many of you have already discussed, there are many of these public interests. The government has decided to confirm this option, which runs on agricultural land. If this spatial world does its job, if you allow us to do it, they will be in the world – they are not officials, you know, our officials are often guilty of everything, and I don't think – in this decision on this interdepartmental group, in which we imagine that state secretaries will be involved, discussed and agreed. There are many conflicts of interest in infrastructure : agriculture. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have this advantage that there is already a conflict of interest within the Ministry. We have nature, we have water, in procedures where environmental permits are needed, we also have this set of environments. These experts would help to resolve this aspect. We wouldn't be officials. Maybe we'll find a better solution together. However, I think it is necessary if we want to continue adopting spatial plans, because otherwise, because of the activities of many countries, local communities, civil initiatives, the adoption of state spatial plans is seriously stopping us. If we're going to do this training, I think we should do it. In particular, it is a joint process of planning and allowing the preparation of regional spatial plans. They are also intended to do so, or we are aware that certain financial resources will be needed. Then it is a matter of establishing the cooperation of the municipalities with the municipal urbanists. This assessment is very harsh. They invest a lot of energy at the Ministry of Public Administration to strengthen the professional services of municipalities. Especially those with fewer people because the difficulty of working in such congregations is great. It is impossible for an expert to master a number of regulations and a number of laws. If this were to happen, this estimated cost would also be lower. However, I am sure that it will come because there is a great need in the process for municipalities to reduce the costs of the operation of the municipal administration. You also talked about these records of buildings and the real estate tax law, and the compensation for the use of building land. And the basics are the records. It is true that records are already better in some congregations, and in other congregations they are less quality. It is also true that the amended Property Registration Act will be placed in public treatment sometime in September. So we're aware of this problem and we're saving it. The Real Estate Registration Act is preparing for us a geodetic section of the Ministry. However, we are synchronized, and we realize that we must resolve this properly. If I'm talking to myself, the NUSZ is something special. In my opinion, in terms of the quality of the payment of this compensation for the use of the building land, it is always less appropriate. When or what kind of property tax? We are already implementing a project where we are upgrading all these records, and I would like to see this property tax law enter into force when it is in force or when the real database is formed. It is true, however, that the e-Environment project itself lasts at least until 2019, 2020 and until then there is sufficient time for the adoption of the real estate tax law. I'd like to mention the positive financial implications. Since it is now possible to supplement construction in individual settlements, this is of great importance to people living in such environments, as well as to local communities. As we have said, the dose of the municipal contribution is now based on the project once, now it will be an acquittal and after the facility is built, it can be verified and measured by this municipal contribution. The NUSZ is concerned with the reliability of the data on the funds collected. Will they be able to raise more taxes on the estates of the congregations? They'll be easy. But it is true that this additional engagement needed to supplement the record will also cost them something. But the congregations will also have to turn to it. We now note that the reports provided for by our surveyors are being upgraded and updated by the congregations. Some congregations do this, some do not, so we have a very written picture here. Then it's about investments in infrastructure. We estimate that better planning for building land, based on objective data, could also reduce this by investing in real estate. These spatial acts represent some kind of rationalisation and financial burden on the municipality. I have said many times that 150 congregations have already adopted municipal spatial plans. That's a nice foundation. About 30, 40 congregations are about to receive them. The parishioners in these municipalities are ready to reach an appropriate level of spatial act that will be comparable to all others. Some mayors seem to have a different opinion. However, there are still municipalities that have not yet adopted a decision to initiate the preparation of the municipal spatial act. So much for the first response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u153	Mr Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we welcome legislative changes relating to the area of spatial building legislation, including this law, which we are considering for the first time today, i.e. the new law on space regulation. So far, in our legal system, we know this area after the express fragmentation of legal acts and it is right to combine the content meaningfully into a single roof law. That is why this new law fully replaces the Law on the Regulation of Space, the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space. In this way, a transparent and stable system is expected to balance both the public interests associated with space management and the interests of the investor. In addition to the primary objective of covering the area of space regulation, the law brings a number of innovations. Let me mention some of these: introducing spatial strategic planning at regional level, establishing a legal basis for spatial planning in the coastal zone, introducing a new procedure for planning spatial arrangements of State importance in principle All in one place and in one process from planning to allowing, decommissioning the municipal spatial plan as a basic spatial act of the municipality with a view to its more efficient management, updating land policy measures to achieve better use of space, development of building land and management of municipalities with building sites, establishing rules for establishing construction plots and establishing appropriate land policy financial instruments. The law therefore builds on the state and municipal spatial planning system already in place and makes sense of it, and we believe that it is appropriate for further consideration at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u155	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkrajšek and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the introduction, let me say that I welcome that article in the law on the regulation of the space in force of the Decree on the Spatial Development Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by the National Assembly, because in the event of repeal, I think there would be a huge gap in how to actually regulate the space. I have great concerns about the introduction of a regional spatial plan. Who will actually be the custodian of this regional spatial plan? There are no regions in Slovenia. Who are those experts and experts who will monitor the implementation of the opinion, such as on certain issues that will also arise in implementation? I think it would be a lot more operational if we were to bring this down to administrative level. The administrative unit is the one that would certainly be able to carry out a comprehensive procedure to ensure that the so-called regional spatial plan is adopted at the level of the administrative unit, has appropriate professional services and also knows what is very specific in the space between all the municipalities covered by them. In the regional development world, I do not think that this is possible, at least in my opinion. Next, which I think is extremely important, you are setting up a committee for the spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia at the Government, which is supposed to coordinate public interest. Here I must warn you that public interest is a constitutional category. You have brought this to the level of a non-professional commission with the Government, which is supposed to even coordinate what the public interest is. But I stress that this is a constitutional category, a public interest, and must first be cleaned at the constitutional level. You have come very close to this in the decommissioning process, where you also write very clearly, in which cases it is possible to discharge, whether it is public infrastructure or such socially important facilities, which are also important for the protection of the nature, protection and rescue and also for the security or defence of the State. This public benefit is not good enough to be sent to the Commission and I suggest that you consider, instead, the possibility of re-establishing the Council for the Environment of Spatial Development. It has been working very well since 1996; it has systematically monitored the situation in the environment, in the space, and I think it would not be bad, because it should be an independent body to work even within the National Assembly, which then controls all services.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u157	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u158	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. The esteemed minister who is currently outside, the secretary of state, her entire team, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the proposal for a law on space regulation, I must admit that when I first heard that this was coming to the National Assembly, I was happy. I am pleased mainly because there are many problems outside this National Assembly in the Republic of Slovenia in all areas. An indicator that the law in force is bad is the fact that we have over 10,000 black buildings, and we have a lot of buildings that are in conflict with the rules. When I said that I was glad that the minister and her team had taken up this bill proposal with the Ministry, which was today in the first reading in this National Assembly, I was happy mainly because the minister, as she said, was working on the issue of the building permit and was also the mayor of one of the major municipalities in Slovenia. Of course, I believe that it has been successful in both areas. If anyone knows the shortcomings of the current law, which has caused many problems to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it is. I also have to expose a number of teams who are here today next to the minister. I have the question that the Minister, what you have experienced in your previous services, both in the administrative unit and in the municipality where you were the mayor, has experienced a lot of problems and that you have not achieved the purpose of this new bill, which is before us today, with your colleagues around you today and in the ministry. That's a fact. One of the MPs on my right even said that we are opponents of this law, and we are not. I would even, Madam Minister, invite you, but it is not necessary to shorten your time, for those of us in the Parliamentary Group on the Infrastructure Committee, to send your colleagues to us in two hours to talk to them about the living things of this law, about the life things that plague citizens and citizens. I mentioned a couple of years ago the law they have in Austria. Of course, it's very difficult for us to go to Austria and make a photocopy. That's almost impossible. However, it is a fact that in Austria someone receives a building permit earlier than 14 days or at a good week. This proposal does not remove that a person issuing a building permit may repeatedly apply for a supplement to applications. What does this mean for someone who has now filed a building permit? To extend his time of betrayal. Surely it would be right for that official who asks for a supplement to apply in a package for all additions, but not to do so alternately. This prolongs the time of issue of the building permit. I myself have concerns about the municipal contribution. It is true that the municipal contribution is paid before the building permit is issued, because the investor who is not entitled to the building permit is also afraid that this investment will be difficult to produce. Dear Minister, we would really like to see this proposal not as many questions as the previous law. Unfortunately, we find, I find, as well as in our parliamentary group, that many questions are open and we would like to talk to your professional services in this area so that once this law is passed, people outside the National Assembly have much less problems in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u159	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Get ready, mags. Dušan Verbich and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues, everyone, have a nice greeting! I'll start like my fellow Member, Bojan. I also hoped that when we got this new law, all of a sudden all of the problems that are so in theory, especially in practice, would be just a distant past. But the fact is different. And why, unlike most coalition MPs, but with all due respect, among them, I see no mayor, but at least here in the middle very few municipal councilors, I hope that I am wrong, but I do not know if anyone is a municipal councillor, but when I listen here to colleagues, as well as on those who are numerous very successful mayors, I am not a mayor, but I am a third councillor, and we know roughly how I deal with serving both locally and at the state level. I have a lot of problems with this marriage. The first problem that I have pointed out for the last time is that I really don't understand common sense logic, why we don't adopt the so-called ZUREP first, and then the Construction Act, to make some starting points first, and then we go into practice. But we had a previous session of the Buildings Act, and today we have a ZUreP. At least we should reverse the adoption of both laws if we do not adopt them at the same time. I don't believe there's an investor who buys windows first, then makes a board. And that's exactly what happens when you adopt this law. Another issue, why I do not believe such a beautiful word, is the coalition meetings now in 2007 when representatives of the Ministry of the Ministry then claimed that the new spatial planning law would solve everything within two years, as regards the spatial plans of the municipalities and, finally, the state spatial legislation would follow the pace and will soon be adopted. To the explicit question of the current minister, whether within two years it will be possible to implement all municipalities with municipal spatial plans, the then director of the Directorate – there are also records in the archives of our parliamentary group – has replied and I will quote directly: “With ease. This was in early 2007. God’s Kingdom, 4 / 1 6. 2017, but only three quarters of the municipalities have adopted spatial plans in 10 years and not in 2 years.« The third fact that concerns me is that before the accession negotiations for entry into the European Union, we had catastrophic spatial, environmental and, last but not least, building legislation. This is what the terrain tells us when we go after Slovenia. Spoiled buildings, wherever we go. No urban, construction, environmental, spatial aspects. Anyone who came here was able to build their own way. And what is the state of 2017? When the urbanists tell you that 500 square feet is already a big construction plot, and God forbid you go with this idea for a construction plot more than 200 meters from one neighbor. Where in the past they were able to purchase at the expense of a municipality that had to invest in electricity, road, sewerage, peace, our generations are condemned to 500 square meters of a kind urban cord, for we must no longer fill the countryside because there must be peace and unspoiled construction. The walls have to be the way they are. God forbid anyone wants to go back to the masonry and so on. And then I'm reading this law on space regulation. And since the introduction still sounds good, the story gets screwed up, but then we get some new and new expressions. For example, let us leave the articles to which I believe that the Law-Legal Service will have quite a few comments, and we will get things, such as for example, that the suspicion of a positive opinion of the right-holder in case of silence is overturned. And that's what some new information system is supposed to do to make sure that it goes like butter now. Well, that's not gonna work. If the mayors did not have the courage or the state officials to process things, now you really believe that some information system will be so superior that he will say: "Oh, an official at the ministry or an official at the congregation, you have two days to give this and this guidance, this and this opinion, this and this agreement." It won't work. In practice, it will not be possible, as it did not happen in 2007, for the municipalities to suddenly receive municipal spatial plans. More. Kkina is the possibility of shortening the procedures for the adoption of the municipal spatial plan. It'll be ground again. When we see what is happening new, as has already been said, the Commission for Spatial Development of the Government, the spatial world, the new elaborates of the economy, new employment, regional spatial plans, which, by the way, may bring some positive shift in thinking, but in practice will be a problem. Specific question: Will the Municipality of Kozje in Posavje be part of any larger or smaller Stajer region to be able to coordinate either with Krški or with Brežica, or will they have to go to Celje for answers to certain institutions? And it's a municipal plan, and it's a municipal plan. Location check. Now it was very easy. Google, a few words, you could have gotten if you registered, location information. After the new, an administrative fee will have to be paid and there will be more. Records of building plots. While this is a step towards what we will say once a property tax, it may be necessary to regulate the temporary use of space in terms of land policy reform. Here I also welcome fees for unused building land. But look at the fragment! The worst-kept records have – who? A country, state institutions and municipalities where so far easy work has been done. The municipality said: “The road will be 6 meters wide, but 2 meters will go through John’s pitch, and then, if there is time, space and finance, we will buy it or even book it.” And if it hasn't been so far, I don't believe mostly the same officials at the Ministry, or the municipal urbanists, who are much more of a problem than the search for a solution. Your Honor, let me finish. Something's going to get mixed up, but unfortunately it's not going to be any better in practice. More, perhaps in the following or then in particular, when others also say what all of these almost 300 articles offer in a negative direction, not just in a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u161	The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, then we are already going to the conclusion of the general debate when the Secretary of State receives the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Secretary of State with her co-workers, a very nice greeting, as well as Members and Members of Parliament! Although the topic today is spatial legislation, the debate by Members also touched on two other laws. The Minister also touched a single institute, and before I touch the spatial legislation itself, I will also allow myself to refer to it, because some comments were of such nature that I simply cannot comment on them myself. The first is a municipal contribution, which the Minister touched in her debate. True, the proposals of these laws allow the municipal contribution to be paid in two parts. Here, on this occasion, I must point out once again, but also in the debate on the previous two laws, I have stood firm in the position and will continue to advocate that the municipal contribution must be paid before the building permit is issued. This is simply because there is too much abuse of such matters on the part of investors. However, looking at investor protection, such income is the exclusive income of the local community and the congregation. With a great deal of investor ingenuity, it is only right that when we talk about a legal basis or a basis, we must have the interests of local communities and communities in front of us when we are talking about a legal nature of companies. [[..]] So I don't think it should be a problem that this part of the law should follow the interests of the congregations. So much for the municipal contribution. As far as what was exposed last time is concerned, it is one of the key issues of this package — consent. I am not going to touch everyone now, because we all know a little bit about these things, we know that consensus is the biggest problem in all these procedures in the acquisition of such building permits and perhaps in spatial planning processes. I'll touch on this part when it comes to building permits, time issues and the like. I think it is right for Members to say something in these debates as well. It is not always the fault of officials or public servants who work directly on building permits within administrative units or, where the state project is located, of the ministries. The fact is, in most cases, the delay, as stated by a colleague, is due to the so-called incomplete role. Who is to blame for the imperfect role? Certainly not an official or a public official, but, in the first place, an investor or an authorised person, who is simply aware of what needs to be done for a full role under the Administrative Procedure Act, is thus not carrying out any known reasons. As far as comparison with Austrian or similar legislation is concerned, the issue schedule. I must admit that in recent years, despite all of this, there has been a pretty good shift in treason. But I'm talking about simple construction projects. It's been an unreasonable long time, after three months for a simple facility. The statistics already being kept at the Ministry of Public Administration show that the average time for individual construction is 20, 25 days. However, I believe that in those administrative units that do not have much work to do, that for a simple facility there is as much time as in Austria, 10 days or two weeks. If I go back to today's topic, space law. As has already been said in the debate, the fact is that this law is very complex with 300 articles. The fact is, there are three main areas, as has been said, spatial planning, space regulation and space placement. It is perfectly logical and must also be welcomed that such matters are regulated by one complex law. But which represents individual problems or questions to me as a Member, those areas of the law itself will be touched further. It is true, however, that today’s debate is underexposed — although the section in this part of the segment is somehow divided — which welcomes them for being well regulated by this law. It's only right to point that out. First of all, good solutions are welcomed, namely the introduction of regional planning. Here I think the profession certainly welcomes such an approach. As well as the creation of a committee of the Republic of Slovenia for spatial development. This law also welcomes a special chapter on land policy measures. And you might even mention the positive side of this law. Why it is important that regional planning is so regulated by this law. In particular, because it is recognised that this is the missing link between planning at national and municipal level. All those on the left hand side who have repeatedly highlighted in their debates, mayors, saints, I think they are very aware that this weakness is one of the key reasons that the media also say is a very long period – 6.6 years for so-called UN average procedures, most likely also for these reasons. However, I would only briefly touch further on the individual provisions of the law itself, where I have a few questions and concerns. I hope something will be given in the explanation. When a person opens the first article, I must admit that it is unusual for me and I really have a question when I look at whether it is a mistake in writing or is it really possible in the Republic of Slovenia to have such a legal arrangement. Here you wrote that this law transposes directives into the legal order of Slovenia. But look at the fragment, 1992, from 2001! And I wonder where you've been these decades, the well-respected legislative body, the executive branch, that the transposition of the directives is not carried out earlier. When the current government or coalition wants to make some changes, especially with regard to the so-called time issues, no one talks about it at all. And here I really want to know whether it is a mistake or a mistake in the Republic of Slovenia, but it is only with this change in the law of 1992 that some part of the directive governing this area is being transposed. Next thing you know, city hall. Maybe I can calculate it a little bit here. I welcome this kind of thing on this marriage basis. However, in this debate, he may also point out further on the parental committees what it is possible for the jurisdiction of these municipal urbanists to be included in this or another law of the institution of the so-called urban architect. Why am I exposing this? All those who are a little familiar with, say, these urban municipalities find that certain buildings in these so-called first stages of construction are incomplete. The existing legal regime, which is still in force, literally prevents the municipal or municipal authorities from any intervention or action to complete or remove such facilities or upgrades. According to the example of European cities, we know this institution of urban architect, which is an intermediate body between the state and the local community, which in some ways has some authority in terms of its credibility and expertise, that such interventions to the premises are truly regulated in accordance with the profession, and above all that the space is regulated in the way it is expected. If an investor begins construction in a certain direction and some unpleasantness occurs, it does not mean that space can be left to itself for a number of years or decades. There is certainly one option here that may be added to the municipal urbanist or in another direction to define this as well. One of the key issues of this law is certainly the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, Minister, I also ask you again in this matter whether it is true that the first such act concerning the spatial development strategy of Slovenia was adopted only in 2004 and is still in force today. And it is really a question of what is going to happen to this spatial development strategy today or tomorrow. I think that all Members must be very interested in this, because the fact is that this strategy sets strategic orientations and baselines for regulating space at national, regional and municipal level. And then we're OPPN, OPPN and stuff. If I end up with one more thing about this law. The regional spatial plan for each development region shall be adopted by 1 January 2023 at the latest. Here I have to admit that I have an intermediate question about how these things are being resolved or what your view is, because we know that when we talk about these strategic plans – are we talking about statistical regions or are we talking about development regions today? The fact is, the year 2023 is quite far away. I think that, above all, local communities, especially municipal councillors, are interested in what will happen in 2018, what will happen in 2020 and so on. Here I'd like you to cooperate, what your position is. However, I am of the view that the law is certainly suitable for further consideration and that is how I will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u163	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you. We have noted your comments, honourable Members and Members, and will address these comments. I thank you for the full debate and for all the proposals you have put forward. Maybe a few more answers. The 1992 Directive on the conservation of natural habitats - it is a matter of supplementing this Directive and is therefore set out, but not before being transposed. But the fact is, I agree with you that the competence of municipal urbanists or city architects needs to be reformulated. Thank you for that thought. The work of the city’s architects is particularly important, although the rural congregations also face solutions that do not belong in that area and are also in the eyes. But there is still this difficulty in cities, this weight works so much more. The fact is, this is the fact that the spatial planning strategy was adopted in 2004 and has not yet been amended. So it is our job to pursue this further. If I have understood your comments, I would like to thank all those who agree that the law goes forward and that in the debate on the Committee, some of the dilemmas that have been raised here today are resolved through the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u165	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If she also wants to discuss the Government's representative, please also apply by pressing the microphone key. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you very much, President. Now I'm gonna start a little different. In the recommendation, the Ombudsman said: "Return to the people, to the citizens of dignity." We have 300,000 buildings built in violation of regulations. What are these people? Criminals? Are they stupid or have they built something they need? Would you like to arrange that these objects are legal? Are they willing to pay for the municipal contribution, all that is necessary? I think a large majority would. Did we let them? We didn't. Everyone is in some kind of fear of when the inspector will come and punish him or give him a decision to settle in a few months, if not, it will collapse. Are they under that fear? So. Do we want them to be under that fear? Are we just? We didn't. Is this the law that regulates this? We're not. This is regulated by other countries, the republics of the former Yugoslavia, Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. Do they have the results? They do. Was there an attempt on our part to adopt or prepare such a law? He was when he was Minister Omrzel. We got another draft, similar to what they have elsewhere, it stopped. Why? Are we smarter than the others? There is no such phenomenon in neighbouring Austria and Germany because there are almost no such buildings. I'm the one who ordered the research at our office, and I also got the report. Does this legislation solve this? No, no, no. We have 23,000 km of municipal roads, and probably some of the state roads that are built are public roads on private land. The Court has taken the practice that each owner has the right to stop the traffic, to dig the road. We have cases in the courts. He has a right, it's a legal practice. The administrative units have ceased to issue a building permit unless the ownership of roads which drive from the investor’s construction site is regulated. Public road. He's got to get his service. There may also be 20 of such services, since we have a scattered settlement, that is what my colleague Trček was talking about. If there's more investors, each of them has to get 20. The cost is approximately EUR 130 or 140. It has to be entered into the land book. Is it right that in the 21st century this is happening to us? I don't know how many years we've known that. Does this legislation give you the chance to make it right for these people? No, no, no. In fact, it will continue, and some other congregation will receive a rescinding of this decree. I don't know how we can look people in the eye. Those who want something can't officially do it. They'll have to build on black and then wait 20 years to legalize through some system. Or will the few inspectors we have be persecuted by 300,000 owners and additional ones that will appear because they cannot legally build? Tell me if we're righteous. Is this the rule of law? That's what I'm gonna say. SPIRIT did an analysis of the logistics centres of economic zones, comparing them with neighbouring countries. For logistics, the price of 30, 32 euros is the maximum of municipally equipped building land for all neighbouring countries. Italy's a little different, a little higher. How long has he been with us? 80, 100, 150. He can't stand it. They can't stand it and they're going out. In neighbouring Croatia, just a little across our border from Rogatec, one of the richest municipalities, a huge industrial zone where our Slovenians go to work. Not only in Austria, but also in Croatia. You can't do that. You can't do that with us. And that's the problem. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u167	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you, President, once again, for your word. I say, when I read the introduction, as well as some of the provisions of the articles, I have always wondered whether we will get this law faster, easier, cheaper, more understandable, and probably more forgotten, environmental and spatial procedures. And I am afraid that, despite the well-intentioned writings in the introduction of the law, this will not happen in practice. As it is said, I have already made some arguments why I do not think that this will happen. Therefore, also, Madam Minister, I hope that further consideration of this law will not lead us to a classical coalition roller, where the Minister will trust officials, coalition MPs, or even intimately against, will have to support everything they receive, and on the other hand, the opposition Members will be choked with various comments from different stakeholders – from the municipalities to the so-called professional public, who will want to do something, as has already been said, faster, cheaper, better. And the coalition will say no, we're a coalition, we're in charge, and you're the opposition there, so it's not a vote of 50 to 0, but it's 50 to 30. So I hope it doesn't happen. Why am I afraid there will be no improvement? When I look at the chapter of the Underlaws, I see that after the law is in force, the following regulations continue to apply, which are about 10. Then three more are used. They suspend one regulation and one regulation, but the following article states that the Government shall issue a regulation out of this and out of this and in nine months three more regulations. If we know that what is currently in force is to be done by the end of the day, that these should be state spatial plans, municipal spatial plans, I fear that much better will not be done, but that, after the implementation of this law, people will be involved in issues such as the municipal contribution, the disqualifications that are also constitutional matter, the question of pre-emptive rights and the question of comassations, which may be of little importance today, but we know how complicated this process is, how long this process is, and what financial inputs are also given to individual comassation procedures, so that we will devote some more debate to these issues. Last but not least, I am very afraid that the law will not be much better, because when I look at criminal provisions, it is only two articles, which, in fact, are only for some municipal urbanist another bar to try to make any decision, and criminal provisions require the responsibility of an individual, and on the other hand, as I say, I do not see any other state or state institutions being forced to take responsibility and, in the absence of respect for this responsibility, to answer criminally. I mean here not only with the financial platform, but also with an official not only at the municipal level, but also at the regional level when it comes to it, but also at the state level. We must also assume our part of the responsibility of politicians, as the predecessor said before, why certain European directives have not yet been implemented. Just as we trusted similar civil servants in 2007 and then learned that we should not always trust them, I hope that this coalition will also consider whether we always trust these officials. Personally, I think that these financial aspects, which are not true, and also that the Ministry will write in the bill that financial resources are not provided. If Jože Tanko and a group of Members and Members of Parliament were to be signed under the proposal, the President of the National Assembly would probably say, "Fantas, red light, wait first for the financial resources or make the law enter into force because we know how this is going on in finance." If we already have a law or a budget for 2018, Article 301 would read: This law shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. But for the coalition, they're layoffs, but they're not there for the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u169	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In view of the fact that we are at the end, I can also say that, while the material is very extensive, it also has good extensions and that it is possible that a government team in this direction has tried to make an effort. However, most of these solutions that we have in this matter have long been known mainly to those who have been in the ministry for a long time. We were expecting some kind of legislation to deal with this materially earlier. I find it hard to believe that this law will be brought to a final confirmation. However, it is important to be aware, even in this area, that even if it is an ideal law, it is up to the officials who are doing so. I would have expected that there would be a number of extensions in this direction, how later to educate the operators of these spatial plans and state plans and also commit them to doing so. There's not enough of that in this matter. I have repeatedly warned that it is unacceptable for us to have different interpretations between different administrative units, not only of the spatial plans of the municipalities, but also of the laws that apply practically to all of them, and that the administrative units interpret them differently. For the second time, I pointed out that we have officials at the Ministry who have been holding a case for a long time, then maybe someone is going to retire or switch to work, but some matters are resolved under the same legislation, under the same conditions as they were before. Why don't I trust these solutions? Because there are a lot of additional intermediate conditions to be added – commissions, which the predecessors have already warned, the spatial world, and NGOs are given some great competence and finally Article 19, which speaks of public benefit, is introduced. If the lawyers looked at it, they would say that it would never happen, because everyone could always refer to a public interest that is not defined, which is somehow in the air. It's not defined anywhere in the law. Nowhere does it say whether it is a public interest at the level of the municipality, but it is a public interest at the level of the state, but it is the public interest of some group, some civil initiative. Whose public interest will later prevail in this arbitration? I don't know. Last but not least, this Commission gives only an opinion and we come to the point that someone has to make a decision. And it's not clearly defined who's answering and who's deciding. Here's the biggest problem. If certain officials had the authority to decide something, they should decide. Now this is just translation and certain ideas are repeatedly judged, no one accepts responsibility, and so the legislation looks like it's a shithole. But it really isn't. If officials could read, we probably wouldn't have trouble changing certain matter over and over again. As regards the public benefit, it has been pointed out that this is actually constitutional matter. If this is not clearly recorded, it is arbitrariness if someone has lawyers, if someone has good counsellors, it can be drawn indefinitely and there will in fact be no bread from this flour. Then you have very vaguely explained the observations or concerns of the Supreme Court, which clearly points out that the indents in the same article are in contradiction. The OPN, the OPPN and the DDP are essentially documents that speak in general, and in Article 2, you are talking about an individual case that may arise as a party in an administrative dispute. The Supreme Court makes it clear that this case does not drink water because it is simply a matter of contradiction. But you say this is consistent with the Aarhus Convention and so on. So it's a lot of things. It's an economics lab. I can't imagine, I've been on a lot of spatial plans that were being implemented at the level of the local community. Who will judge when the economy is ahead of another interest? For example, environmental protection, against the interests of the guides. Look, the economy is once again a concept that someone will arbitrarily define. And you're introducing an economics lab. We will not bring one spatial plan to its end because someone will always challenge that after the elaboration of the economy he has prepared, this matter does not drink water. Who's going to arbitrate? You have set in here so many things that go in the sense of some arbitrariness that I fear that even with the amendments to this law will not be possible to correct to such an extent that it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u171	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you, President. I would like to say that the legalization of objects is not an object of the ZUREP, but an object of the Construction Law. To discuss how we resolved the legalisation in the Construction Law in the interpretation of the ZUREP, I really don't think it's necessary. It is interesting, however, how we like to turn to neighbouring Croatia. Maybe it's because of the current subject with arbitration. I don't know. I would like to say that property is constitutionally protected, which means we cannot resolve this constitutionally protected property in our own way in the Law on Spatial Planning. Roads as infrastructure are not the subject of this law, but I will say that they are not, as we also have the Ministry of Infrastructure, which can implement certain solutions. But property is certainly a constitutionally protected category and we with ZUreP cannot solve the constitutionally protected categories differently than those resolved in the Constitution. As far as the value of unpaved building plots is concerned. When we talk about the market economy, I would rather expect someone to debate the left-hand side, there, I would say, the current political issues against the market economy. The prices of unpaved buildings will be so high until the property tax is resolved. I have already said that for NUSZ, i.e. the compensation for the use of building land, the data is entered by the municipalities, which then process this compensation for the use of building land also for building land. That's where ZUREP and I can't interfere. However, once this is resolved in a different way, I believe that the price of unwalled building land will fall because the annual tax on such real estate will be substantial and the owner's account will immediately determine how long this property will have to be sold. It is true that we tend to buy out agricultural land and then plan investments on these agricultural lands, equip them municipally, and it seems to us that this is the right way. But we cannot skip some reality now, because we all know what the current reality is in Slovenia. But we've got the extensions to go forward. Public interest is a public interest. So we are defined by a number of laws as to how this public interest is protected by the departments. One public interest already prevails over the other and is already being implemented and decided by the government, which is very difficult for the members of the government. However, there are many governments that do not want to make decisions about this and do not go anywhere when accepting VAT. I do not believe that I have made this clear enough, but I want those who know the procedures for issuing a building permit in municipalities or administrative units to understand that something similar, but not in spatial planning, that is to say in the issue of a building permit, to be provided where these operators of space regulation meet with their requirements when there is no longer any agreement – now that this opinion – should be followed by a new opinion – to write and leave this paper or two sheets of paper their way for us to meet and discuss at the hearing. Of course, the task of this body, which will assist the Government in its decision-making in the future, will be able to solve a number of complexities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u173	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and also the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u174	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 14, 16, 19, 22, 23 and agenda items 1. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 10 July 2017. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 51. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 58. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 23. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on integrated early treatment of pre-school children with special needs under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 10. Seven. 2017. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 12. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the State Assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law on Friday 14 July 2017, after the final vote. The services of the National Assembly will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles in which the amendment was adopted, amendments to these articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a space regulation law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 22. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on social security between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America and an administrative agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America to implement the agreement on social security between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! You could say we finally have him. In particular, the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America, since Slovenia has been working towards such an agreement since the beginning of the 1990s. In 2013, we also received agreement from the US side so that negotiations could begin. Why is that important? Because the United States is the last country to live in a larger Slovenian emigration community, with which we have not yet concluded such a social security agreement. In addition to this larger expatriate Slovenian community in the United States, our citizens and citizens also leave for study, stay there, work as experts and experts, and then after a few years, many want to return to Slovenia. In order to be able to return to Slovenia, it is important that this insurance period, the pension period they acquired in the USA, is then also recognised in meeting the conditions for retirement in Slovenia. Therefore, if we look at what rights this social security agreement will allow, it is the equal treatment of citizens and citizens of one Contracting Party with regard to the provision of rights and obligations in the area of pension and disability insurance and the citizens of the other Contracting Party in which they live and work. It shall be the sum of the insurance periods supplemented by the legislation of both Contracting Parties in order to fulfil the conditions for obtaining entitlements from pension and disability insurance under the legislation of each Contracting Party in the event that the conditions for the recognition of a right without the sum of the insurance periods are not met. It is also a measure of the amount of the pension in each of these countries, in proportion to the complementary insurance periods, which means that each of the two countries will pay the actual share that corresponds to the actual age complemented by its social security system. It shall also apply to the payment of pension and invalidity benefits recognised under the law of one Contracting Party to another Contracting Party or to third countries. The Agreement will also ensure the continuity of the insurance period in each of the individual Contracting Parties at a time when they are temporarily assigned to work in another Contracting State. This will also remove the obligation to double the payment of contributions. As I have already said, we are now in the final phase, i.e. in the process of ratifying the said agreement in the Republic of Slovenia. On 17 January this year, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak and US Ambassador to Slovenia Mr Hartley signed an agreement and the procedure in Slovenia will be completed with ratification in the National Assembly. The same must happen in the United States of America. According to information from the US Embassy, this procedure will be launched in a short time, which means that we can expect to see an agreement on social security between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America enter into force by the end of this year or at the beginning of the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u176	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother's work, which reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Respectable. The proposal for a law on the ratification of a social security agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America is one of those ratification laws that will be supported by the modern Centre Party Group with special satisfaction. This is for the direct benefit of our people. While a similar agreement with the United States on social security already concluded by more than half of the European Union Member States, the end of unequal and unfair treatment in the exercise of their social security rights will only be announced for Slovenian citizens who have been or are still employed in the United States by today's ratification. The implementation of an agreement, which people are waiting for more government mandates, will allow persons who are part of their working life in Slovenia and part of the United States to count the insurance age and thereby to recognise the actual working age and the timely and fairer rate of their pension. Under the agreement, the amount of the pension will be determined in proportion to the insurance period, so that the Republic of Slovenia and the United States will settle the share resulting from the period achieved under their social security systems. The latter is particularly important for Slovenian citizens who are entitled to the American pension right now only if they were employed in the US and paid for at least 10 years in the US social protection system. In doing so, they do not take into account the period of insurance in Slovenia. Likewise, the US insurance period has so far not been taken into account in achieving the right to a pension in Slovenia. The minimum required insurance period for Slovenian citizens to obtain an American pension in full or at least in proportion, will be reduced to 18 months after the entry into force of this Agreement. The ratification of the agreement also eliminates inequality for workers sent to work in the United States. This is particularly important in the light of the fact that more and more successful Slovenian companies are present in the United States, especially high-tech companies. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that the implementation of the agreement is another step by which the Government allows Slovenian citizens, in the first place young people, and Slovenian companies to operate more easily, gain experience and improve abroad while facilitating their return to Slovenia. Such measures encourage circulation, not brain escape, so the ratification of the agreement in the Group of the Modern Centre Party will be unitedly supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u178	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are deciding on a proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in culture and education. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Mrs Damjani Pečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u179	Mr President, thank you for saying so! Dear Members and Members! The Republic of Montenegro is the only country in the former Yugoslavia with which the Republic of Slovenia does not yet have a umbrella agreement on cooperation in culture and education. On 1 February 2016, Montenegrin Culture Minister Pavle Goranović, visiting the Slovenian Ambassador to Montenegro, Mitje Močnik, proposed to sign an agreement or a memorandum on cooperation in the field of culture and education between countries in 2016 on the 10th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the countries. This one's right in front of you. Slovenia and Montenegro have good relations and many contacts in the field of culture and education. Thus a number of projects have been carried out in the context of bilateral cultural contacts over the last three years, in particular the hospitality of Slovenian artists in the Republic of Montenegro. Among the most famous Slovenian creators we can mention the hospitality of the actress Milena Zupančič, the writer Slavko Preglja, the dramatist and director Dusan Jovanovic and the poet Josip Osti. There are also 26 bilateral projects between Slovenian and Montenegrin researchers in the field of education and science. The Agreement is the basis for closer and deeper cooperation both in the field of culture and education and science, including in the future, and above all this cooperation will be systematically supported from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u180	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a discussion on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 11 July 2016. Seven. 2017 is published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin on changes in flat-rate taxation. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mrs Jelka Godec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mrs Jelka Godec's question on the health situation. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak, on police procedures related to the laundering of billions of dollars in 2009, 2010 and later. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to Mr Zvonka Lah's question on the assessment of noise in the construction of the irrigation system. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of the message. Branca Grims related to the protection of the border with the Republic of Italy, with an increased flow of migrants. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 53. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc and Minister of Labour, Family, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark to the question of the delegation of Ms Miha Kordiš concerning the payment of healthcare to caregivers in the homes of older citizens. We vote. There are 77 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Erika Dekleva, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, to Mrs Erika Dekleva's question on pollution at the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Poček. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 62. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Eva Irgl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Mrs Eva Irgl about the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 51. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Ludmila Novak's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to Mrs Ljudmila Novak's question on conservation and development of management. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Mr Franz Breznik about violations in criminal proceedings. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 53. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Boris Koprivnik, Minister of Public Administration, to Mr Tomaž Lisco's question on the financing and development of local communities. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Logar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Mr Matey Vraničar Erman on the question of Mrs Anžet Logar concerning NLB, d.d. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petra Gasperšić, to the question of the Ambassador, Violet Tomić, concerning the construction of the southern part of the third development axis from the Novo mesto motorway to the accession of Malina. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour and 50 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matey Vraničar Erman on Mr Jožef Horvat's question on how to resolve the tax burden on migrant workers. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matey Vraničar Erman on Mr Ljub Žnidar's question on the issue of an agreement on greater investment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Dear Minister Mag. I asked Matthew Vraničar Erman, Minister of Finance, what are the risks of the Ministry of Finance controlling major state investments at local or national level. She explained very well the legal bases of the Ministry of Finance, so that municipalities in charge of greater investment need to obtain the consent of the Ministry of Finance. All local communities shall comply with this instruction. On the question of how this is the case in the case of major state investments, the explanation was very clear and well presented that all budgetary users must, that is to say, ministries that actually allocate funds independently in the budget for these major expenditure, but those expenditure must be planned for investments in the budget and defined for future periods also in the development programme plan. This development programme plan is defined for all the following years and also shows how the budget is burdened in the coming years. This is said, including the development programme plan, which is the so-called third part of the budget, must contain complete investment documentation. This is what you call an investment programme, including all the technical documentation. In fact, it goes to government level in the framework of cross-cutting coordination, where they also coordinate on the financial implications of each investment. Then came my question, how about the second track project? Here was the answer: “Yes, but there is the law. This does not apply there.” This is said to have no investment documentation for the second track; it does not need to be introduced into the development programme plan. We do not have a second track in the plan of the development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia, because this is regulated by law. This is said to be the case if we want to avoid all this procedure provided for by legislation, only the law must be adopted and all the rules imposed by the law on the burden of the budget must be circumvented, because the law makes it very clear that the budget is also burdened in the coming years. I suggest we support the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u182	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravek's response to the question of Mr Janžek's question on the investment of Canadian multinational Magna Steyr in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 49. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Daniel Krivec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Minister Irena Majcen to Mr Daniel Krivec's question on the Office of the Triglav National Park. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Dr Franca Trček, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mag. Mr Mateje Vraničar Erman and Mr Boris Koprivnik, Minister of Public Administration, on the question of Mr Franz Trčko's mission concerning the financing of the appropriate consumption of municipalities. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll be relatively brief. See, we are not all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, we are citizens and citizens of Slovenia, we have been elected citizens and citizens of Slovenia. The Court of Auditors’ audit report clearly states that, during the first half of its term of office, this government was unable to manage the financing of the appropriate consumption of municipalities, which is a prerequisite for the implementation of local self-government. We call on the Government to do so to make this a serious debate, because this is also our responsibility, because this is also a responsibility especially to many increasingly disadvantaged local communities in Slovenia. Of course we'll vote in favour. But who will vote against it is probably against local self-government in Slovenia. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-11-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u184	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Germany, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to Mr Matjaž Germany's question on the provision of conditions for the functioning of the Academy of Arts of the University of Novi Gorica. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 48. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of Mr Jana Mahnič on the action of the police at the public assembly on 29 June 2017 at the Congress Square in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 52. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
