ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marijana Kotnik Popotat by 3 p.m., Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Igor Zorčič from 2 p.m. on, Dr. Lászlá Goncz, mag. Dusan Verbic by 3 p.m., Mr Daniel Krivec, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Mr Saša Tabaković by 3 p.m., Mr Ivan Škodnik, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc by 5 p.m., Mr. Franz Ly. There is also an excuse for the absence of the Slovenian basketball team with Ambassador Peter Wilfan at the head of the team until 6 p.m. [[Applause]] I invited the President of the Government, the Minister, the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Council of Justice to the 31st item and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 8 September 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. Procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President, the Honourable National Assembly! The supervisory function of the National Assembly is, in addition to the legislative function, the most important function performed by the National Assembly at all. In this context, the Commission has prepared a special report for the supervision of the intelligence and security services on the suspicion of money laundering, the real Farrokhzadeh case and submitted it to the National Assembly for consideration. Everything proposed there was confirmed unanimously. The findings are extremely important as they highlight the inadequate functioning of the supervisory authorities, the law enforcement institutions of that country and are a warning for all to come. So it is not only a misbehavior that is inconsistent with the rules and inconsistent with the law by the police, but also with other institutions – from the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the KPK and so on. This should therefore be addressed at an appropriate time, so that all aspects of this problem are highlighted and that the National Assembly carries out its supervisory function in a smooth and complete manner. The College of the National Assembly has now halved the time we have proposed specifically on behalf of the Commission for one hour. Let me point out that in this case, the applicant is not a Government, that any balance is needed here. On the contrary. Usually, the government has not been particularly involved in these matters, although it has now expressed such an interest. However, in order to present everything that was wrong, it is necessary to give adequate attention to what needs to be done in the country in its most sensitive institutions, i.e. in law enforcement authorities, supervisory institutions, that sufficient time is needed. There is no reason to rush, no reason to hide or hide anything. Therefore, I propose that the National Assembly decide otherwise and that it repays one hour of time to the applicants, i.e. the Commission, for the future work of the country, so that no more billions of dollars of money will be washed in Slovenia, so that the National Assembly can do so accordingly. I propose that such a decision should also be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u3	First, I note that there is no commercial basis for this because the College of Presidents of the National Assembly has already decided on this issue. That's the first thing. The second point is that we are currently on the agenda itself, not on other issues. Dr. Ange Logar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you, President. We Slovenians say where there is will is power. I think they proved it yesterday. I also refer to you, Madam President, precisely because of the willful decision taken at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. See, we have come to shocking conclusions on business practice at the largest state bank of Nova Ljubljanska Banka on the Commission of Inquiry. That is why we have prepared an interim report on the alleged money laundering in the Farrokh case. The report consists of three parts — open work, closed work, and secret work. It all weighs about 150 pages. The request of the Commission of Inquiry, which unanimously confirmed the report, was only one – 30 minutes’ introduction that the Slovenian public and also the Members who will decide on this report can obtain in peace all the information related to these three reports. But as chairman of the College, despite my request on behalf of the Commission of Inquiry, you have made the opposite decision, and you have only allocated 15 minutes of scheduled time to present this report. See, since the supervisory institutions, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, eventually the supervisory board of the bank, the regulator, the bank's management so blinded their eyes and wanted the Farrokh issue in a fast place, we have this report right here. Otherwise, this case would have been resolved sooner. I don't understand, I don't really understand the coalition's decision, because this is a coalition decision not to discuss this issue or to minimize the debate on this issue. I don't know, I wonder if you're directly involved in this matter, that you don't want one normal debate on this subject. Last but not least because of the alleged importance of this topic, you set up your commission of inquiry solely on this subject. Is it not a fine introduction to the work of the new investigative commission if another investigative commission presents this report with dignity? She can't present him properly in 15 minutes, but she can present him in 30 minutes. I therefore propose, the President of the National Assembly, that we vote on this proposal to extend the presentation of this report to some decent normal time, which is 30 minutes, as requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u5	One part of this debate and procedural proposal was a direct insult to my involvement in what I do not know. This is a long-standing practice developed with regard to the reporting of both the Commission of Inquiry and the KNOVS. And it's not about anything else. The only exception was made when it was an extraordinary meeting. There was more time then, but it still insisted on a 15-minute basic baseline presentation. It is also a decision taken on a democratic path in the College, as these decisions are taken. I think that our rules of procedure are governed by competence and I cannot now oppose all that has already been done, order or vote again on these matters. But it's possible about other things. You know when the procedural options for these things are to be proposed and voted on again. But it is a long-standing practice of mandates from 2004, 2008 onwards. In fact, I don't know why right now, because we're familiar with the two points that are connected, we have more than enough time to talk about these things. I think it's all about 11 hours ago. Procedurally on the same subject? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Mr. President, it's slowly coming into certain paradoxes. His colleague Grimes suggested that he get or wanted 60 minutes to discuss his point. On your proposal, the College has decided on this proposal that you are talking about. My colleague Logar suggested that he have 30 minutes of opening arguments. On your proposal, the College decided to shorten it to 15 minutes. This reflects the interests of the ruling coalition in some way, and closes the debate on unpleasant topics. The Farrokh case is a problem in any position or on the KNOVS or investigative committee. I don't think there's any substantive reason for you to propose such a decision. In his explanation, his colleague Logar wrote that in certain cases there had also been cases where longer periods of time had taken place since this Rules of Procedure. He's right. There is no valid reason for the President of the National Assembly to be the one who deals with a few minutes of additional debates, but who would provide a fundamental and substantive explanation of the role of persons and institutions in specific matters, money laundering and other criminal acts that have taken place in the banking system. Mr President, your role is great, it is an important role and you have probably taken advantage of your role and have proposed cutting time on both agenda items. If you are so specific about these matters, I would remind you of another detail that we also had at the College. When I raised the question when the Government prevented its Minister from participating in a single agenda item on the Defence Committee. You said it was an exception to the exception, and that's what you'd do. This is no exception to the exception because that exception constitutes a violation of the law and a violation of the rules of procedure. In this case, however, there is no exception to the exception, since such things have already been and have happened in the National Assembly. I hope that this normal extension of time at both points of the agenda should not be further justified, but that you will be allocated to the KNOVS for discussion in the Commission's report for the presentation of the position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u7	There is no business condition for me to order another vote on this. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose a 15-minute suspension of the meeting of the National Assembly, because within five days, this deadline has not yet expired, to submit a written request for re-decision on the decision of the College.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u9	There's no basis for that either, even if you don't put it in.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u10	In accordance with paragraph 10, I propose that we decide on this. 18 of us are Members, we will make a request and this decision will be decided by the College of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u11	I will read to you Article 21, paragraph 10: “If the decision of the College on matters referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article, except those referred to in the fourth, seventh and eighth indents, within five days of the adoption of the decision on matters referred to in the first indent, and within the time limit referred to in Article 143 of this Rules of Procedure, at least one fifth of the Members, the decision of the College shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote.” The fourth indent shall be relevant to the duration of the meetings of the National Assembly and the time for the consideration of individual agenda items and the decision on the duration of the debates of Members or Members' groups and other participants in the meeting. It's off. It's explicitly excluded that he can't be in on this. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm listening to that expected charade. One of them must have been a little bored while on vacation. However, if we are serious, I am under the impression of visiting the Italian Parliament on an official basis with my colleague Dobovsk and other parliaments. Why? In some more serious democracies, it has been practiced that there, when a fellow Simona sits there, where a colleague of Brglez sits, representatives of the home labour bodies and not the president himself represent the laws and legislative initiatives. We are sorry that we are not so mature in diplomacy, nor is diplomacy, parliamentary democracy, that we should change the rules of procedure that I personally think is necessary. And I'd expect that from the people at the most mile away when they turn into an umbrella. What does that mean? That means in this case, you're some kind of political option, any one of them, can't steal the subject. That means you wouldn't get a story like a colleague of Mahnič who cooked it recently, and another one. Of course, it's just some ping-pong of yours. My procedural proposal is to cut this out and consider another, better, future composition of the National Assembly to follow more mature democracy and more serious future changes to the rules of procedure. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u13	We're moving on to decision-making. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, you obviously insist on these statements and requests. I propose that, in accordance with Article 67, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure, you propose, in these two points, that the debate or consideration be extended and that it be no longer extended by more than one hour. The Commission of Inquiry report may be extended by 15 minutes, in the KNOVS report for 30 minutes, as proposed. If you have been able to propose to the College a shortening of time, you may also propose an extension of time in accordance with this provision of the Rules of Procedure. In any event, however, it does not go beyond the limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I'm counting on you to use it to make sure I don't insult what you can use. I would also remind you that, given how many discussions there will be that the coalition did not report much time at both points, it was self-limited not to discuss these contents, which were, for an hour or two, too long. I therefore suggest, Mr President, that you define or propose, in accordance with this provision of the Rules of Procedure, the return of time to that starting point or to the proposed one and the other items of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u15	In accordance with this provision, the President shall be the one who decides. And the chairman opposes that. In addition, the agenda should first be set so that further matters can be discussed at all. At least one more procedural proposal within this has already been taken into account or I intend to take it into account. I can't even get to him until we get to the agenda. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedurally, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. It is now evident that you are essentially behind this shortening of time for discussion. See, the time we will spend on these procedural proposals, caused solely by your defence of reducing the time of presentation of the work of the investigative commission. We will spend more time than I asked you in two proposals to present a report, which is in three parts and must be presented in this way. Previously you deceived Members and the Slovenian public when you said that this was a established practice 15 minutes from 2004. Report of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly on the attack on journalist Mir Petk, an additional explanation by the applicant for 40 minutes. Report of the Commission of Inquiry on the misuse of power in the sale of electricity in the Slovenian electricity sector, additional explanation of the applicant 40 minutes. So there are eccentric cases where it allowed the President of the Commission of Inquiry to present the report normally in the introduction. Now you obviously want to shorten this debate and some normal introduction, which would also allow for a normal debate here in the National Assembly. I therefore urge you, once again, in line with the proposals already put forward, to arrange a time for discussion, such as those of the two bodies, the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services and the Commission of Inquiry, so that we can have the appropriate time to present the reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u17	I could read you 15 reports that say exactly the opposite, that there was always time 15 minutes for the introduction and then the debate 30 minutes, while at KNOVS it was a long-standing scratch that was the same and also in the previous report you had. Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, in one part this matter is indeed something special. That is also why this proposal is justified. See, never in the 25 years of this Parliament's existence has this Parliament faced a case of this magnitude. It's about money laundering in the value of one billion dollars for proliferation, that is, the acquisition of a network for mass destruction, terrorism, things the world is facing in a tragic way today. On the other hand, in history we have never witnessed the findings as presented in these materials, and therefore require a certain time for presentation and consideration. See, there has never been a case in history where all supervisory institutions, law enforcement authorities, would so systematically, systematically cancel, if they were so clearly violating the legal order, not once, but several times, different protocols, procedures, and would therefore have so bad consequences. That's why this thing is worth the attention. And last but not least, I do not know any other case in the history of independent Slovenia when a key person in the Police department who decided to stop the investigation when the best time for this was when these accounts were still open, after an investigation by their own colleagues inside the Police had been conducted disciplinaryly against this person, one day before the official hearing, death occurred because he supposedly fell off the ladder and suffered a fatal injury. No witnesses, no everything. There's more to this story than just coincidences. That takes time. Not only because of what happened, but mainly because, under the supervisory function, Parliament has to face all the facts and the whole story responsibly, so that something like this will never happen again. This is happening in a normal democratic country that would fully respect the rule of law and where the supervisory institutions and law enforcement authorities would act properly, could never and should have happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u19	I answered everything. I suggest we vote. Procedural about the same thing? This is essentially an abuse because we do not vote on what is most normal at the beginning of the session, and this is the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is obvious that, even as chairman at this point, you do not want to agree enough to put forward a motion for a vote in the National Assembly. This must be decided by the National Assembly in one way or another. Just as the College of the National Assembly decided on your proposal. Now that says it all. You were talking about another proposal. And that's the proposal I'm withdrawing. So you will not try and put that proposal to a vote because it seems totally irrelevant to me that we are dealing with some things in a way that, from the point of view of the chairman, tries to limit and block everything that is substantively important in the debates and which has a decisive impact on all the situations in this country, is linked to the bank hole, is linked to the recapitalisations associated with the disintegration of citizens, is linked to the innocence of the guilty that have caused it, and so on. So you're doing everything you can to keep the privileges of those who have committed the greatest crimes in this country intact and their positions as they may have been before. In short, Mr President, if you don't allow any of the minimum things that would clear up the country's biggest stories of banking crime, you're preventing the debate on these points, then we've come, I'd say, very far. Using the Institute of the President of the National Assembly to limit the debate to limit reporting to the National Assembly in order to limit reporting to the public is something that is outside the standards anywhere. That is why I propose, Mr President, that you make a proposal to extend the presentation of the position and to debate on one or the other point of the vote, and I also inform you that I am also withdrawing that point, which you should give a positive opinion on, because it makes no sense at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u21	First, I put to the vote a proposal for a agenda. I've got another procedural one. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I ask you, on behalf of all of us sitting here, on behalf of the citizens and the National Assembly, to prevent this manipulation by the SDS. They brought an audience to give them a round of applause. Look, they're holding the whole national assembly and all of us together. Or we could go home and have a show of our own. The College has already voted on this procedure, as far as I know, and it has been voted on as it is. The agenda has been voted out. The biggest stories in the country know what they are. The biggest stories in the country are from the arms affair forward. And since then, we've all been chess. Then let's look into it if you say so. On behalf of the truth, we could say a lot of things, not beguile citizens all the time and all of us here and keep us in check. We'd like to move on, we'd like to move on to the agenda, and please stop this, because we're not coming anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u23	Otherwise, it wasn't procedural. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll resume in 15 minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u24	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I'm continuing with the adjourned meeting of the choir. I shall put to the vote a decision laying down the agenda. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, President. Dear fellow Members and Members! I wanted to give it to you before, so you broke up the session. Your job is to react and protect everyone in cases where there is an attack, of course verbal to the Member, regardless of which party he is from. The same applies to those people, citizens and citizens of our country who come to the National Assembly for a visit. They're coming to see Parliament. And I don't know why you let and didn't warn my colleague Violet Tomić when she marked people on the balcony with an audience who came to clap SDS escapade. That's incorrect. The National Assembly can be visited by anyone from any political party, including associations, etc. So this is not any audience that has come to applaud, but these are rural women from the Poljanska Valley, whom in this case, and at this moment, I welcome and apologize to them for having been so attacked by the Ambassador of the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u26	I note that the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to replace agenda items 29 and 30 is first considered by the Commission's report on the supervision of security and intelligence services, paragraph 30, and then the report of the Commission of Inquiry, paragraph 29, is withdrawn. Before continuing the meeting, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u27	Respectable citizens and citizens, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! A month ago, on 17 August, we celebrated the national holiday of the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the native nation. A few days ago, 15. September, and the holiday of the return of Primorska to her homeland. Both holidays have a rare thread. It is that on these two days we connected the areas of Slovenia, which were Slovenian and were inhabited by Slovenians and Slovenians. The end of World War I was decided in Trianon to join Prekmurje and our people in Slovenia. At the end of World War II, we were able to fight the Paris Conference that Primorska had been returned to her homeland. These were undoubtedly difficult times. But out of a silent desire to be part of a single Slovenian space, hope was born. Slovenians and Slovenians from the Italian Sea to Prekmur were still united. The history of rebellion was on our side. Resistance against foreign invaders and rebellion against all those who wanted to wipe us out, destroy us and destroy us. To all those who wanted the Slovenian people to disappear in Primorske and Prekmurje, we showed that we did not give up. We fought for us, our people, our history for our craftsmen. In doing so, our own language, the Slovenian language, was a unique language, which today is equal both within our wider European family and within the United Nations. One of the keys to understanding our being and grain is that we built our nationality in the language for which we joined Prekmurje and Primorsko, and for which we also gained independence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that the return of Primorska to the homeland and the merger of the Prekmurje Slovenes with the mother of the mother tongue also merited preservation by many Prekmurje and Primors, some of whom I refer to: Števan and Mikloš Küzmič, Matija Slavič, Josef Klek, Štefan Kühar and France Bevk, Lev Svetek Zorin, Alojz Kocjančič, Dominik Pegan, Loize Bratuš, Ljubka Šorli and many others. All of the above and many of their contemporaries have connected patriotism and love for the Slovenian language, for the people, for the Slavonics. Let this also guide us when we are here today discussing the future of our country. Let us bear in mind that Slovenia and the preservation of the Slovenian language have been beaten and preserved by effort, resistance and struggle. Finally, allow me to give all of us the courage to quote from Bevk's Kaplan Martin Čedermac, who says: “Please, just one of you, please, I am begging you, hold your tongue with love as much as your country. Don't let him take it. Don't break your bond with God. Keep it in your homes like a light so it doesn't go out. The day will come when fate will magnify him again." Happy Prekmurke and Prekmurci! Happy Birthday to the Seas and the Seas! Happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u28	We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 37 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. Under this item today, ministers and ministers will answer questions from Members of Parliament and Members. On this point, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, and Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration apologized today. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will answer the question of mag. Mr Andrej Shirtzl in connection with the implementation of the arbitration agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, here on the balcony! Dear Member of the Mags. Andrej Shircelj, thank you so much for asking. On 29 June this year, an arbitration decision was issued by the Court of Arbitration in The Hague. As soon as it was issued, after the publication, we also sent a note on the diplomatic path to Zagreb, where we proposed that we begin the implementation of the arbitration decision as soon as possible. I must say that we know that Croatia opposes the recognition of an arbitral decision, says that this arbitral decision does not exist and, of course, it also causes, as you correctly stated in your question of the Member State, problems, because for normal implementation you need both sides. In this case, Croatia also claims today that it does not recognise this arbitral decision, which, of course, also causes certain difficulties when it comes to the implementation of the arbitral decision, because certain matters will still have to be done together, especially when it comes to demarcating the border, when the arbitral decision requires that the States agree on the Tridin Summit to agree also on the land border, in particular where the cadastra is completely inanimate, and recommends that both countries find a reasonable solution for citizens at the border. I would also like to answer your question on what the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do to implement the arbitration decision. I would like to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had full jurisdiction in relation to arbitration, when it came to the arbitration procedure itself, in preparation for the arbitration procedure and in support of the legal group in particular. To this end, the so-called Arbitration Project Group was also established, which was also terminated after an arbitral decision was issued, because the implementation of the arbitral decision does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone, but is an interdepartmental jurisdiction. It therefore coordinates everything related to the implementation of the arbitration decision, the President's Office, of course, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we still have the authority to interpret the arbitral decision, the competence to translate it. Let me say at this point that the arbitral decision has already been translated, but that there is now a so-called legal editorial. Because we know that each word is extremely important and that in law it can happen that a word has several meanings. We have experience from the Mokric Memorandum, where we have a problem with the word "stopp", which Croatia has suddenly translated from English when it came to stopping trials with the savers of the Ljubljana Bank. As I have already said, we have a coordination group set up by the President of the Government, which, of course, takes all the necessary decisions concerning how to implement the arbitration decision. Then we have a working group led by Secretary of State Erik Kopač at the level of State secretaries of all departments. It is important to know that the implementation of the arbitration decision touches on a number of pillars – from the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Public Administration, so that I will not list all the ministries involved. However, I must say that, of course, everyone does not participate in the procedure for the implementation of the arbitral decision. And then there's a committee that's somehow in charge of cartography. On this basis, the border will also be drawn. I'd like to ask you another question, or I won't be able to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u30	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u31	Thank you very much, distinguished minister, distinguished other ministers and ministers, president of the National Assembly. Of course, not only because of your call, but also because I am giving a supplement to my question.First, what I can say is, I have asked this question before my vacation, it is said somewhere in early July, mid July, and I must say that I don't know if the answer has actually changed in the last two months or whether the answer today would be different. In particular, because I actually find that I simply miss, as I have said here, the common strategy and common tactics of the entire government. You, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, can certainly take initiatives for anything else. It is not enough to establish three groups or four groups. I want to know what kind of tactics you can tell the public. The government will have it all. It seems, on the one hand, we have, say, you who do not want or your opinion, that there is no need for the President of the Government to meet with a colleague from Croatia. The President of the Government is meeting. On the other hand, we have a lot of open questions, incidents at sea are happening, I've noticed that there were 30 of them somewhere, probably more of them, and things are still messy. I want to know: What are you going to do up to 1. 1st? Then, if nothing is done, Croatia will say, see, because you have done nothing. For this reason, I would like an answer to what will be done here to ensure the interests of Slovenia are well represented.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u32	Minister Karl Erjavec, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you very much. As we say, we also have this working group that prepares cartographic bases. Let me say that we have recently, I think, adopted an interim report, where they presented to us how the state border runs on the basis of an arbitral decision, so that the final report will be adopted, I think, within 14 days. This is very important so that we know exactly where this border is going. You have rightly concluded that this Interdepartmental Government Group will have to prepare everything necessary for the implementation of the arbitration decision. In doing so, I would like to point out that this is a six-month probationary period, but we must at least prepare what we can prepare ourselves within this time limit. Here comes the legislative package, you know that certain legislation will have to be amended and adapted to the content of the arbitral decision. This means that the National Assembly will have to adopt certain complementary legislation which will also take account of the arbitral decision at the level of local communities. It is said that congregations will have to change their decisions. According to the information I have, it's supposed to happen within a month. It is important to know, however, that this is a very demanding work. The next package, which is also important, is being dealt with by this working group at the level of State secretaries, and you could also monitor this through the media when visiting people. It's about how to make it easier for people who live along the border and who are on the Croatian side, their lives. In particular, this is a problem related to the education of children, then to the issue of health insurance, and other social rights issues, so that this working group is working intensively here. But I'm not in a position to report exactly what they're doing and at what stage they are. In any case, it will have to continue to work to convince the Croatian side that there is no alternative but to respect an arbitral decision which is part of international law and also part of the EU acquis. In this regard, I can also point out that we are also preparing certain actions, of course after the expiry of this six-month period, if the Croatian side continues to take this position. However, I must say that they have neither the support of the European Commission nor the most important European countries. As Foreign Minister, however, I say that we too must do our part.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u34	The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Šircelj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the Minister's response mainly because it is essential that Slovenia, and even if you wish, has a single position, a tactic and strategy on the implementation of the arbitration agreement. I think that we need to be united here, no matter what we may say, and the European Commission is pressing on Croatia that we have more right than they do next. It should be borne in mind that Croatia has the decision of their assembly, their national assembly, their parliament. And in this context, we really need to work at once. Here I do not see the possibility for the Prime Minister of Croatia to decide anything else if he is bound by a council decision. And we have a conclusion of the National Assembly. About the open sea and so on. I wouldn't talk about that today. But here I think that, given that even if we unilaterally, to say so, adopt certain legal acts, this can go to the detriment of Slovenia. Even in this case it may go to the detriment of Slovenia. Because even in this case, as the Minister has already said, we need to agree on certain matters. The firm summit was mentioned in this way, and the limits are set out in this way. And if we do not agree and adopt some legal acts, we will work in contrast, to the detriment of Slovenia, contrary to the interests of Slovenia. That is why I think it is necessary to debate because we do not want Slovenia to lose its territory because of unilateral acts, because they will start going to health homes in Croatia or to schools in Croatia, because they will be there at the border, because we will accept it and so on and so on. This is about a person, an individual, and a number of individuals, what is actually going to happen. This is a matter of strategic questions and it is actually a question I will say in a way also the existence and state-of-the-art of Slovenia. For this reason, I propose that the Slovenian policy on this unity is not now uniform. After all, we also have little difference of opinion between the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and then we have the President of the Republic, who may not be completely united with the Prime Minister and so on. I think that the National Assembly is the place where matters of state-of-the-art affairs simply need to be dealt with. That is why I hope you will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u36	The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Shircelj, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. 9. 2017, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Ambassador Susana Lepi Šimenka, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members, Members, the ministerial team, especially the Minister of Finance, are very welcome! In the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar, we have received quite a few additional, in particular tax burdens. Let me remind you, the VAT at 22% at the time of this government has become permanent and has also been retained in these percentages, i.e. at 22%. Businesses received tax receipts, tax from corporate income rose from 17% to 19%. There was a rise in the financial tax, a rise in the tax on insurance services from 6,5 to 8,5 %. Of course, you also have a real estate tax, electronic tolling, suspension of vignettes that will most affect those who “migrate” to work on a daily basis and that will in particular increase the cost of transport to work. You are preparing changes on standards that will also bring about changes to their damage. There was also talk of tax on the Internet and of gas cents. However, while innovation does not know borders, there are also two taxations that have been or have been discussed in some way and are linked to contributions to the income of an individual taxpayer for income. Here I think a contribution to health insurance, where voluntary health insurance is to be abolished and compulsory, which would mean a higher payment for most of the taxpayers. Secondly, what we have witnessed in recent days, in some ways the information we have received from the media is that RTV's contribution should also be paid according to income and not more on individual households as it is now. Dear Minister, you yourself said that the developmental personnel should be unloaded in particular. To this end, the mini-tax reform you have prepared and the introduction of an additional income class has, in fact, slightly burdened a certain layer of taxpayers very little. But if this government continues as it appears, you will in fact only make these debtors more burdensome. I wonder what your opinion is on these two contributions to be prepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u38	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to share the various benefits that you mentioned in your question. On the one hand, we are talking about the tax burden. Taxes are public funds collected in the budget, either in the budget of the State or in the budget of the municipalities to cover general needs and differ in essential elements from some other contributions mentioned in your question, guilt, contributions to health insurance or RTV contributions. On the other hand, we need to distinguish between the charges actually introduced and the different proposals that are at different stages of coordination. The fact is that the average tax burden in Slovenia has fallen in recent years if measured in proportion to the percentage of public tax collected in the context of gross domestic product. If I go specifically to the problem of the contribution to health insurance or RTV contribution. In particular, in the case of the RTV contribution, these are ideas that are discussed in the professional circles before a formal proposal submitted for intersectoral coordination is reached at all. The Ministry is not aware of the specific modalities of the proposed amendments to the RTV contribution, as the competent authority, the Ministry of Culture, has not yet drafted a formal proposal for amending the RTV Act and we have not yet come to the stage of inter-departmental coordination, where all the modalities of RTV changes could be discussed with each other. In view of the information we have obtained through our inquiry, I can say once again that this is one of the working options that the Ministry has discussed, but this is not a formal proposal that the Ministry of Finance could respond to through a detailed examination of all the modalities professionally and inter-resortably. However, given the information I have at my disposal, I can say that the change in the RTV contribution in the way it was seen mainly in the public media would constitute a significant change in the nature of the contribution itself and also a significant change in the way it was collected. And not with one approach or another, as Minister of Finance, I cannot agree. In the second part of your question, you also raised the issue of the contribution to health insurance or so-called supplementary health insurance. This issue is also the subject of cross-cutting coordination. We are looking for appropriate solutions that will not change or that will not exacerbate the overall burden of wages or labour costs in the country, and I hope that we will be able to present a coordinated solution in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u40	Member Susana Lepi Šimenka, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you for your word and thank you for your answer! Of course, it is a matter of various tax burdens, on the one hand for contributions, on the other, for taxes. But it all comes from the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who pay them either from wages or then, I don't know when they'll buy a thing. I don't think there's much difference here for them. It is true that more than obviously this information regarding the payment of the RTV contribution was just some kind of working option. But I personally appreciate that the very thought in this direction is extremely inappropriate and that we should think in a completely different direction. However, as far as health insurance is concerned, the Minister-designate, indeed, may not be burdened any more from that common, but in the light of the proposals that have already been made, if it is calculated, on average, most people will pay a substantial amount of health care, and we must not neglect that this part of the insurance has been an additional health insurance by now. When this change occurs, this will be part of the compulsory insurance, and this will somehow withdraw directly from the salary in the form of a contribution. In view of the proposals on the table, it will be the development staff that we all agreed here in the National Assembly that we should in some way relieve them. There was also talk of a continuation of some tax reform, where the developmental frame in Slovenia will be further unloaded. Last but not least, it's to avoid a brain escape in some way. But with such an introduction, their wages will only be more burdensome.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u42	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much! The essential difference between contributions and taxes is that we pay something for taxes for which we do not expect direct reimbursement by the recipient of the tax. While contributions, especially social security contributions, represent our contribution to our common social security based on the principles of mutual solidarity, and this principle of mutual solidarity is at a very high point in Slovenia of values that we live by. But this is typical of social security contributions. Once again, as regards the RTV contribution, it is a matter of working thought, which is not, if compared to, at least as far as it is known, how such contributions are collected in other countries, would not be the only country to have such a structured contribution. But once again, given the changed nature of this type of contribution, and given the changed method of collection, it would not be possible to support such variants if they were brought into intersectoral coordination. Second, as regards the medical contribution. Let's let's get to the bottom of this. I have said that coordination is ongoing and I do not want to prejudge at this time what actual arrangements or what solution will actually be reached. What we are working for at the Ministry is to maintain the effects of last year's tax reform to the extent agreed upon. Further changes to the tax regime are also in the final stage of coordination and are expected to be presented to the National Assembly by this month or no later than the first days of the next month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u44	Ambassador Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government! Look, we have witnessed more and more constant attacks on the constitutional rights of families, especially women, to decide on the birth of children. At social work centres, for example, such folds of the Pregnant and in distress are available. If we open it, we can see that the questions raised are: Are you pregnant and not enjoying yourself? Are you in financial trouble? Did your partner leave you? Are you alone? Do you think you have enough kids? Isn't your pregnancy going according to your expectations? You think you're too young to bring? Are you experiencing distress, anger, grief, despair, fear, uncertainty and confusion? And then point us to the side of the institution I live in. Let me remind you that this institution, which is the most powerful in propaganda against the constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion. This is the institution that also produced a film on unborn children entitled Wonder of Life at the Franciscan Church. And what can we read on their website if we go to it? Mostly lies that deliberately intimidate women and horribly describe the procedures of one medical and routine procedure. In short, they frighten and describe the consequences of abortion, which are physical, emotional pain and even endless and suicidal thoughts. You know, beating the feelings of guilt on women in distress does not in any way contribute to their emotional stability and makes it easier for them to make a decision. It's probably clear that women are in even more trouble. That's why I want to know: How can such flyers be found at state social work centres? Do you intend now that I have warned you, to ensure that such and other propaganda against abortion does not come to the State Institute? What do you intend to do to ensure that propaganda that violates fundamental human rights does not penetrate the public sphere? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u46	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Your Honor, thank you for asking. Although I have only received from you the question of what we will do about the promotion of societies fighting abortion at social work centres. And, of course, it was my first time that I wasn't aware of it. Now you've introduced me to this subject with a certain leaflet. I didn't see him. In this regard, however, I would like to say some important things because I feel that they need to be systematically known. Social work centres are public welfare institutions. So they're not an exposition of the Ministry of Labour that just controls them in a way that's like I'm checking out the flyers that are there every day. Directors are certainly responsible for this and any public institution is responsible for not promoting matters which would violate fundamental constitutional rights. So here we are in exactly the same position. We'll check it out. But the fact is, this could probably happen. Basically, propaganda or leaflets at social work centres are mainly the content of the rights enjoyed by individuals and individuals. Then, for the most part, information is also available at social work centres on non-governmental organisations implementing public social protection programmes or other programmes that are important for the resolution of human distress in the local environment. And, of course, it is the responsibility of the Director or Director of the Centre for Social Work to judge this content. Sometimes, for example, I'll tell you the last case, at the children's bazaar, there was an exhibition room at the Ministry of Labour and I'm looking at our flyers there, but there were flyers in our exhibition room who weren't there by the Ministry of Labour because someone left them there. As soon as we noticed, we moved it away. I don't know what it's like now, whether it's at multiple social work centers or not. However, it is very clear that some leaflets, which are contrary to fundamental constitutional rights, are not admissible. This is the conduct of directors and directors who need to verify which leaflets are in their possession. However, it is certainly a practice that prospectuses or leaflets allow individuals or individuals to alleviate their life situations, especially information on who they can turn to. But it's up to the director to decide what to do and what not to do. I'll check it out now that you've introduced me to this, and I'll give you an inquiry into how and what. It is indeed the responsibility of the directors and directors of public welfare institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u48	Ambassador Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u49	Look, yeah, the directors are responsible for this. What are you going to do — you're the district minister and you're responsible for their work? The content of this leaflet is extremely controversial and social work centres are professionally qualified to care for families in distress, not civil society. Civil society has its own space outside the centres. In addition, before the abortion, every woman has an urgent consultation with a psychologist and a doctor and they give her one such objective opinion as to what to do and direct her in an impartial manner. So the sharing of such flyers is not only disputed by the clear dark agenda behind them, because the right to abortion and the rights of women we have chosen, and this is a gain that we cannot really ask now. But it is also disputed that leaflets cause even greater distress in pregnant women. And social work centers really can't tolerate something that causes more distress for women. And it is also unacceptable because it interferes with constitutional law. And when it interferes with constitutional rights, we can't just leave it up to the directors to decide whether they feel right or wrong. The violation of constitutional law is here. You know, women decide to have abortions from different pressures. And it's really not appropriate for any group of people to take advantage of these hardships for their own agendas. You, as a state authority, have to take care of respect for the Constitution and the consistent protection of these victims. For we know that even before maternity, there are those who put pressure on these women who want only the greatest possible anonymity and the most secure environment in which they will solve their difficult case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u50	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u51	As I have said before, honourable Member, with the prospectus you have introduced me, I will check the exact contents of what it is, we will put a inquiry into it, and if there is any unconstitutional enquirement, the Ministry will instruct them to remove it. However, the system as a whole must work in such a way that directors and directors who are directors of public welfare institutions know what is happening to them in the house. If you imagine that a minister across all 62 social work centres is able to review every day what is placed on each exhibition site, it is not possible. I would remind you, however, that social work centres are a key institution of the country that operates in the local environment. And good functioning is also linked to their connection to the environment, to NGOs and other organisations operating in the environment. Public social welfare services are provided by public institutions, but also by the calls of a number of NGOs operating and, of course, by the expectation that the social work centre can be effective in doing so, it is linked to non-governmental organisations operating. However, if a non-governmental organisation or society operates in some way by sharing propaganda that may have elements of unconstitutionality, there are other ways to determine whether it is legitimate or not, or whether it is legal. Other procedures should also be initiated here. But I'm going to look at the brochure, and if we put it first, it would be easier to answer your question. The key thing in all is that they are responsible centres, but they must certainly comply with the law and the Constitution, and it is the highest legal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u52	Ambassador Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Look, this isn't the first case. As we watched at the Franciscan church that film they were playing, somehow the government was crossing their arms and watching women's rights increasingly being attacked and wrapped up in some kind of right to freedom of speech. The right to freedom of speech or any right must cease where the right of another begins. We know that. And above all, constitutional rights must not be violated. Well, responsibility and judgment of directors. They must, in particular, respect the laws and the Constitution. And here's their responsibility, which we talked about. I am pleased that you will check that you will also act, because social work centres can connect civil society, but they cannot possibly offer them infrastructure to distribute some anti-constitutional propaganda. Therefore, given that I am concerned that our rights have already been taken away from us day after day, I propose that the National Assembly at its next meeting hold a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u54	Ambassador Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. 9. 2017, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Erik Dekleva, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Environment and Space Irene Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! On behalf of the 20,000 inhabitants of Postojna and Pivka, who will be deprived of a source of drinking water if pollution occurs in the area, I ask you: Why has the regulation protecting this water source not yet been adopted? The negative effects of military activities leave Pocket with harmful consequences, as confirmed by the results of environmental monitoring. The use of environmentally hazardous substances is extremely risky due to the characteristics of the karst terrain, i.e. permeability and groundwater. The State has not adopted a regulation on the protection of the Water Belt Regulation for Malne, which it should have done years ago in accordance with the requirements of the Water Act. Therefore, there are no insurance measures to be taken into account. Nor has there been an environmental impact assessment carried out in this element, nor has it been carried out in the element of nature conservation requirements, as demonstrated by negative opinions on intervention, such as the Environment Agency, the Nature Directorate and the Institute for Forests. Dear Minister! You have been preparing the introduction for 7 years, indicating the country's negligence to deal with drinking water, so I ask you for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u56	Minister of Environment and Space, Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u57	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Your Honour, Mrs Erika Dekleva, thank you for the question. The Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces was adopted by the Government in the first half of 2014. The area is of strategic importance in the country's defence system, as it is the only such area where the Slovenian Armed Forces can train for the defence of the country and meet the requirements of the NATO Alliance. The area is regularly and effectively used by all Slovenian Armed Forces units. When preparing this State Spatial Plan, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment procedure was not carried out, which is in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 40 of the Environmental Protection Act. Notwithstanding this provision, the preparation of the State Spatial Plan mainly included environmental impact assessments and its components, such as climate change and air quality, soil, water, noise load, nature and biodiversity, agriculture and agricultural land, forestry and forest, cultural heritage and landscape. This means that professional grounds for environmental protection have been developed in which all the studies carried out in the field of training have been examined. It is on the basis of these preliminary studies that the guidelines of the space regulators have been prepared and in implementation that mitigation measures are taken to reduce or prevent these negative impacts. It was also found that, taking into account all the remedial measures, drinking water would not deteriorate. All these water and soil protection measures are laid down in Article 76 of the State Spatial Plan Regulation. Your statement that the coverage of Malni is not subject to protection, I must say that this water source is protected by a municipal decision on the protection of the water source Malni and also by water cover in the Mountain. Indeed, we all agree that this congregational decree dates back to 1971. A new regulation is in preparation. The fact is, he's been preparing for a while. I, with the details of which congregation and when it demanded that part of its territory be increased or reduced, would not burden you. For all regulations in Slovenia, cooperation with the municipalities is compulsory and necessary, as the regulations which are then adopted by the Government are approved in some way in the municipalities concerned by the Regulation. It is precisely this regulation that concerns a number of municipalities. The last comment to be taken into account came from the Municipality of Loška Valley and is in the final stage, as the geotechnical analysis was needed for its comments. As you stated, it is true that this geographical concept of Crassus is in these very lands that reach the water protection area. This means that the necessity of all safeguards is even greater. However, it will not be possible to adopt a regulation or regulation if all the congregations fail to cooperate and confirm this Regulation. Therefore, this coordination is one of the most difficult procedures that we need to prepare and engage at the Ministry of the Environment, not only the mayor, but especially his professional services, is the condition that leads us to the conclusion of the regulation. I propose that you may also talk to these professional municipal services in this environment, and if this interest is really so strong, then the drafting of the regulation can be completed quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u58	The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior, mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u59	To all of you, I wish you a very nice greeting. The great illusion of how things have now settled in Europe and the problems with migrants and terrorism are no longer apparent in the last weeks of this summer. Such a series of attacks by Islamic terrorists, as we have witnessed, were over twenty in history. If this were a few years ago, the government of each European Union country or European Commission, perhaps even the United Nations Security Council, would be meeting. Now up to three quarters of the cooked European frog is not even disturbed. For Slovenia, the fact that Germany woke up and took action in the Mediterranean with Italy is not necessarily just good news. This move is indeed a good one, it has significantly reduced the flow of migrants to Italy, but it has therefore significantly increased the pressure of migrants on the Balkan path. Back to where Slovenia is right at the end of this journey. This, of course, raises completely different questions than we have seen in the last year, when an agreement between Turkey was established and the European Union, which is already at issue in itself, but has softened certain things, now things are being reopened. At the same time, the flow being diverted from the Mediterranean from the Mediterranean route, the flow through Turkey again and, on the other hand, the relationship between the European Union and Turkey is exacerbated. As a result, there is a substantial increase in the flow of migrants from Turkey to Greece and elsewhere. The Balkan route is being revived again. This growth is, in fact, an exponential and alarming news from the last week, when, in one week or even less than a week, almost 2,000 migrants arrived from Turkey in the European Union area, far away, far from the largest inflow since the entry into force of the agreement in early 2016. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How did the flow of illegal migrants intercepted or detected on the Balkan route in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia increase after months? What measures does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provide for to protect the security and additional protection of the border in these circumstances?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u60	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u61	Mr President, honourable Member, I thank you for the question. Here I agree that the situation is only seemingly peaceful, because despite the closure of the Western Balkan route, the situation is dynamic, and the situation in our area has changed, and the fact is that in some black scenario Slovenia can be caught between two migration afterwards, which is certainly a factor that we consider in all the measures already on the ground and which will also be implemented. As far as statistics are concerned, or they are being examined or cut through trends, I can say that from the beginning of this year to the end of August, we have considered a thousand 203 illegal crossings of the external Schengen border, if we are talking about a Western Balkan route. According to last year, the figure increased by around 130%. Last year we discussed 523 illegal crossings, which means that the trend of illegal migration or illegal border crossings is persistent. After months, I can tell you that if we cut through this trend, in fact, the number of illegal crossings of the external Schengen border, which began to grow in the second half of last year, decreased this February, and then increased again in May. In August, it came again to that in May, so in fact our forecasts were correct in view of the increase in illegal migration following the closure of the Western Balkan route. Of course, the seasonal rise in illegal migration in the autumn months is not excluded, and as far as the structure of people arriving at illegal border crossings is concerned, the citizens of Afghanistan continue to stand out significantly, followed by the citizens of Kosovo and Turkey. As far as action is concerned, I can say that the police are constantly monitoring the situation. It has also been successful in breaking down organised criminal groups involved in human trafficking in recent times, which is of paramount importance. We are also in constant contact with the security authorities of neighbouring countries, from which data on the state of illegal migration are also collected and regular exchanges are taking place. You also know that even after reporting on your committee, risk assessments and border management plans are prepared, which provide for concrete activities as well as stepping up measures. These plans are complementary. At this point, I can say that the situation is currently manageable with regular forms of work, but as we have demonstrated from the very beginning of this problem, the Government has taken and will also take step-up measures to manage the migration crisis, to protect the Schengen border and to control the migratory flow that is directed towards preventing illegal migration. In the future, we will also respond in a reasonable, timely and optimal manner. However, cooperation with the countries of the European Union as well as with the countries on the Western Balkan route is also essential for sustainability, and it is also very intensive.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u62	The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grims, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u63	Yeah, one day in Europe, we could look at each other two days ago. One day in Europe, an 18-year-old man on a train in England exploded a bomb, injured more than 30 people, by the way, entered the European Union as a minor, and we could remember those words: “Yes, but the child will not be afraid.” When it comes to radical Islam, the first thing is caution and reason. But the reason is that, especially if we take into account further developments that day, someone with a hammer, another Islamic extremist, attacked two women in France, had a knife attack on a police officer and so on, could count a few more rapes and a bunch of other crimes. Therefore, reason dictates that we protect security in Slovenia. The security situation for Slovenia is very vulnerable in many respects. One of them was mentioned by the minister herself, and it's good that she said so. This is the fact that we are stuck between two potential currents. One is from Italy outside and the other via the Balkan route to the north. Unfortunately, our neighbours are essential to protecting their borders before us. The Austrians are constantly strengthening control, sending additional troops to the border. Orban protected the border by setting a model for all of Europe. All of this, of course, leaves Slovenia even more vulnerable and therefore opens up the fundamental question that I have raised at the beginning. I understand that you're working with your neighbors, I understand that you're in control, you're gathering information about the situation, but the question is: What additional measures do you have ready and will be introduced this fall to prevent Slovenia from becoming a pocket in order to endanger people or security in the country?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u64	Minister of the Interior, mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you very much, President, again for your word. As already indicated in the first part of the response, Slovenia will face the migration wave comprehensively but also soberly. Of course, we are aware that security is also important, because migration is not only a humanitarian issue after all, but also a security issue, which I can say from the point of view of the function I am currently performing. We are actively preparing for the case of the non-action of European solutions, as well as for the unilateral actions of any country that is being Tangled by migration, of course, taking into account all the circumstances to safeguard national interests in the event of a possible uncontrolled flow of more irregular migration from neighbouring Member States of the European Union. I think that we can all agree here that there is no doubt that it is the duty of the State to summarise all the measures that are necessary to ensure security and stability in the event of mass migration as well. This is certainly the constitutional task of the State. We are counting on all scenarios and we are aware that only effective management of mass illegal immigration can prevent threats to public order and internal security. As it is said, migration is also a security phenomenon, while international protection is, of course, a separate category. As regards concrete measures, they will, of course, be scaled up in proportion. If you remember, even in 2015 and 2016, conditions for the most restrictive measures had to be laid down, since any restrictive closure of the border could also bring additional security problems. The measures will move from the current tighter controls at the green border and at the border crossings and the basic implementation of compensatory measures carried out at police stations, by intensifying the level-setting measures under the control of the general police administration to the option of re-temporary control, which does not take account of Croatia, but, more importantly, somewhere else at the internal border and to extreme measures, which we have already talked about, i.e. the activation of the state contingent plan. You know, however, that legislative measures and solutions to the effective work of the police are also in place, even if the changed migration situation could endanger public order and internal security. For the State must act when a potential deterioration of the security image is indicated, i.e. when the elements of the threat of these categories are detected, even after repressive measures. As you yourself have found, the situation is different, we know that transit will not be and our position, which has also been said in the past, is that uncontrolled mass influx of illegal migration from the Member States of the European Union cannot be allowed because there will also be no conditions for the application of Article 5 of the Schengen Code, as it has been in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u66	The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grims, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u67	I propose that the National Assembly should certainly hold a debate on this subject. The reference to the situation and, in particular, the conduct we witnessed in 2015 is not exactly something that would inspire overconfidence. Then, I would remind myself, in the summer, in the early autumn, I warned that we should build an appropriate fence, together with Hungary, to declare the closure of the border. Then the flow would turn elsewhere. We could not stop it, we could not prevent it, but we could have achieved that it would not run through Slovenia, at least in the way it is, surely not. Now the situation is kind of similar. Now we should take those first steps, in a way we could call it soft, but giving a very clear signal to migrants, that we will keep the borders in line and seriously safeguard them, while at the same time further strengthening border protection already in order to prevent what we are witnessing. In fact, Slovenia is in some ways already half out of the Schengen area. The neighbours on the Austrian side exercise control, which is practically the same as when the Schengen in Slovenia was not yet in place when we did not enter the Schengen, I would remind you that we were under the government of Janez Janša in 2007 and that this was not just the case. There was a great deal to be done, a great deal of effort needed, and now this is being lost due to the immobility of 2015 and 2016. If things get worse, and believe that they will, this will be an extremely unpleasant situation for Slovenia, because in advance it is clear that none of the neighbours can be forced to go to our side or, I don't know, take people back if things get out of all contexts. Relying on the agreements, I would like to remind myself again in 2015 when I said, let's do this, only the principle of no migrant gives real security, and it was said, "Yes, because we're dealt with with by neighbors, this will be totally different, you're panicking." [[…]] And then, of course, those arrangements with the neighbors didn't last 24 hours. When the current arrived, it all collapsed literally in one night. The Croats have just pushed us down there by the water of the entire trains of people, it's all over Slovenia, but it won't be organized now, but this dispersed flow is so much more problematic because, on the other hand, it allows crime to grow and brings along hundreds of other problems, making the security problem even more complicated. It complicates measures that are subsequently necessary if prevention is not done in a timely manner. All of these are reasons why we should speak about this over and over again and with full responsibility to the National Assembly. I therefore propose that this debate should certainly be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u68	The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grimes, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. 9. 2017, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u69	Dear Madam Secretary! Many craftsmen try to support their families with their work, not to enrich themselves. They have an obligation to use tax repositories in their operations. The vast majority of them also faithfully fulfill this obligation, but in times of distress, they may at times experience some error that may cost them months’ wages under existing legislation. Dear Minister: Do you find it appropriate and proportionate to punish thousands of euros for minor irregularities in the validation of accounts? In fact, when we go only across the border to neighbouring Austria, which is also a European country, all European regulations apply, and that is not necessary. Not even the issuing of accounts on the ground, on the stand, have a certain flat rate, even more, up to €700 per month can be earned without issuing invoices and without accounting. Why do we have such strict legislation and such high penalties that do not promote entrepreneurship or entrepreneurial initiatives or creativity in humans? Due to the introduction of tax registers, very many, even older, have completed their activities and are left only to social contributions to low pensions. Those who could still create, continue to work and serve their own bread, and because they are elderly because they are not used to it, the average age of a farmer is over 60 years, and if he still has a low professional education, how can they follow all of this? Therefore, I ask you for your assessment: Is it right that we do this, or would we not simplify matters, go to the flats, let people earn something besides a well-deserved low pension, or do they also do some other activity besides low wages, without some bureaucratic systems or keeping accounts and so on? I want to know: Are you thinking about changing your business?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u70	Minister of Finance, mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the question! There's quite a few things about the question, and I'm going to try to address them. On the one hand, the tax validation of the accounts that we have introduced in order to assess that individual emerging forms of grey economy or informal activity should be limited. The results of the implementation of the Law on tax clearance of accounts show that we have essentially set up measures effectively. The Law on tax clearance of accounts also defines fines for non-compliance with the laws. The fines are defined according to the severity of the offence, as well as according to the size of the person, either legal or physical, who carries out the activity and which has also caused the individual breach of the law. Data on fines imposed for 2016 and 2017 show that your claim that a large majority of taxpayers respect the Act on tax clearance of accounts. During the year 2016, the Financial Administration dealt with several thousand, poor thousand and 100 cases of violations, where the fine was imposed or in more than 38% of cases of reminders, not even a fine. Data for this year show a similar trend. A good thousand 100 cases were detected in the period from 1. 1. 2017 to 31. 8. 2017. Also this year, in 30% of cases, a reminder was given, not a fine. In addition to the objective circumstances that something was not in accordance with the law, it is necessary to show gross negligence or guilt for a saying of a warning or a fine. Because you specifically point out independent entrepreneurs, let me also say statistics for this year regarding independent entrepreneurs. In 184 cases, the Financial Administration issued a fine decision, of which 82 cases, i.e. in 44.6% of cases, the Financial Administration issued only a reminder. For 141 individual entrepreneurs, payment orders have been issued, of which 63 independent entrepreneurs have been issued at the lowest level. In order to facilitate the problem mainly of farmers referred to as the second target group in our question, by amending the Cadastrian Income Law and by achieving the Income Act, that the large amount of their activity no longer requires the issuance of invoices. Let me remind you that there is a flat-rate taxation system in Slovenia for both farmers and other independent entrepreneurs who do not achieve a certain volume of transport. However, the concept of flat-rate taxation is very broad and can cover a wide variety of emerging forms. In Slovenia we have decided on a form that is transparent and simple and in a variety of elements simpler than the system known by the Austrian regime. Of course, in any event, if we decide to transpose the provisions into Slovenian legislation, we need to transfer the whole, not just the part that at first sight seems more favourable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u72	Mr. Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u73	I'll try to explain a little. See, one farmer with a complementary activity, such as processing meat into dry meat products, was selling meat at a trade fair on the stand and there was a case where one of the buyers bought a little more of these articles and said he could give some discount. And he didn't give him a discount, but he gave him one sausage for the surface, so to speak. And that's what the inspector saw, and that sausage was a thousand 500 euros. I came by, started bobbing, showed me the record, czech, look at you. And then when I ask the inspector, not there, in one case, yes, we warn more than once, and if that happens again and again, then the fine must follow. Now, the inspectors say that you in Parliament have adopted this legislation, I said, I did not, we opposed such high fines, if you remember. However, if it is being warned, there is probably also a technology that we could have – a record. A tax number could be written for anyone and the inspector could say, here, I reminded you three times, four times, and now I have to take you down, not for a thousand 500 euros. On the other hand, the fine is 3,000 euros if you pay in eight days and you have a thousand 500 euros. It is said that those who have already stolen enough have, can pay a thousand 500 euros in eight days, and those who barely survive their family do not have a thousand 500 euros and must pay 3,000 euros. Tell me, is that fair? I think that technology also allows for other controls, we could do something different.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u74	Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u75	Life situations in individual cases can be very different, of course, but when we create legislation, our first question is what our tolerance is for the occurrence of illicit conduct, for example in the case of cash transactions, business without invoices. And when the law on tax clearance of accounts was passed in the National Assembly, it was very clear throughout the procedure that we have or are launching zero tolerance for such abuses. If this was the case for a fine of EUR 3 000, that is to say, it was a worse tax offence, and yes, technology exists that it is actually possible to register and, in fact, the law must also record reminders as an integral part of criminal policy under the Law on Offences, but because I have to say that the lowest possible fine of EUR 500 is for independent entrepreneurs. If a fine of EUR 3 000 was imposed in this case, this means that it was a worse tax offence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u76	Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to take this business opportunity. Let me tell you one more case. When I went to one store, technically, to buy something, the store told me, I don't know what to do, whether to put a washing machine on meals or not. In fact, one young family with three children, the husband received a fine of thousands of euros, I heard, not exactly how much, for some minor offense and they are not even able to buy a washing machine. Now it's a question, she said, because she's a sole entrepreneur, she's going to go to social support, she's going to close it all up, and I'm not going to get paid for it. I wonder if it's true. And it is our fault that we are Members because we have adopted such legislation. In the back is another article that says that a fine may be higher than the lowest, especially the sentence being written. I would like, Madam Minister, in such cases, to check with this inspector, who has given one of those who barely survives a young family, whether he has already reminded him that it was a worse breach. If the worst violation is one dry sausage or one wooden spoon, then that's not true, then you shouldn't have people like that at work there. And I'll tell you, the next time someone gives me a record, I'm going to follow this record and I'm going to tell you my name and last name here. Or a list of those Members who have voted such fines and such laws here in Parliament. That's what I'm gonna get, and I'm gonna keep it with me. Because it's too big. Maybe it's about individuals, but if someone pays, he hears that the penalty for one such offence is 3,000 euros -- how many people are he pushing away? How fast does this spread among people? Is that proportionate? Is that fair? Is that fair? Absolutely not. If we have such regulations to evaluate, let's just say that we don't have to work anymore, that money grows in ATMs and we just go up and pick it up. It's like the old days when they said, "Poor Germans who have to earn brands, and we just buy them." Show respect for citizens and believe that the vast majority are honest and want to stick to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u78	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, said on Tuesday in the framework of the vote. We continue with Mr Hainz, who will raise a question of the matter before the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac. Mr. Hainz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to both ministers and to the Minister, in particular Mr Karl Erjavac! Of course, I have a question about the border with Croatia or the implementation of the arbitration agreement. I know that it is necessary to have arranged, beautiful relations with neighbors, if you want, but the only limit on which we are somehow stuck is, of course, the border with Croatia. With Austria we have arranged, with Italy we have arranged, with Hungary we have arranged, and with the Croats I feel as if it were a separation between two spouses who could not possibly be negotiated. Specifically Croats, especially because it is our extremely strong economic partner, it is a tourist partner, if you want, we have human relationships and extremely strong relationships, people are married across borders, they have properties on one side and the other side of the border, and somehow this diplomacy, I will say, is not going well. Of course, it's hard to talk to Croats. The fact is, we had a series of talks, arrangements, starting with Speglje, which was suspended because he and the Slovenians had agreed on a common defence against the Yugoslav Army. The temporary border near Dragonja – we placed a container in the valley, and temporarily, of course, it became permanent. The Drnovšek-Račan Agreement was, of course, not implemented. Schools were set up in the last year, at the time of the arbitration agreement. Sea maps just to remind you, the manuals just let us go, we had the Croatian sea and we had the Italian sea, there was no Slovenian sea. On geographical maps everywhere – Croatian, please make no mistake – writes “Piranski cove”, Croatia is now artificially, politically and through journalists, of course, imposing another name, some “Savudrijajski vala”. In short, there are a number of things that the Slovenians will not be able to translate into eternity, or the question is how it is to talk to someone who does not want to talk, especially after the border has been established internationally. Mr Grimes also spoke about this problem of agreements a few minutes ago. In short, a simple question, Mr. Minister: Where is the border on the border issue with the neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u80	Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for asking. I welcome all Members and Members of Parliament and fellow Ministers! As far as Croatia is concerned, we actually have a very big problem in all areas when we are talking about the border when it comes to the maritime border, the land border. In the past, we have tried to resolve this issue through dialogue. You mentioned the agreement Drnovšek-Racan, which was an agreement on a balanced border. And I must say that the arbitral tribunal, when it ruled, quite summed up what Drnovšek and Mr Račan had already agreed, suggesting that they had already found a compromise, balanced solution. Slovenia has done its part, this contract or agreement Drnovšek-Racan has accepted, ratified in the National Assembly. We know that at the last minute, the matter has stopped in the Croatian Parliament, where these treaties have not been ratified. It was similar with the problem of savers of the former Ljubljana Bank. We had a signed agreement, it was a memorandum from Mokric, and again the problem, they did not respect what we agreed on, and this was to stop all judicial proceedings concerning the Ljubljana Bank in Croatian courts and that this matter is regulated through the Vienna Convention or Treaty of 2001. I want to say that it is very difficult to establish and implement some agreement with the Croatian side, and even if we look at the arbitral decision, we see that, on the one hand, they say that they do not apply them, they do not respect international law, they say that the Croatian Parliament is over the decision that only God is above the council and so on. It is important to know, however, that international law is over every parliament. Here, too, in the National Assembly, it is often necessary to accept and take into account certain things laid down by international treaties, as this is also provided for by the Constitution. Similarly, if a mature country were to be respected in terms of international law, Croatia would not have used such funds. When an arbitral decision was issued, they argued that, through bilateral talks, we should settle the matter because the arbitral decision did not apply to them, although the arbitral tribunal made it clear that the arbitral procedure could continue to be that the unloving event did not affect the final judgment, but they simply did not take this into account. That we can assume that the Croatian party is not interested in the dialogue on the implementation of the arbitral decision, we can see from the statements made by the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Plenković, when he visited Savudrija and called on Croatian fishermen to fish in the Slovenian Sea that the arbitral decision does not apply to them. Therefore, I do not see any special value in going to dialogue until Croatia clearly states that it is also subject to international law and also to an arbitral decision. I therefore believe that a strong foreign policy must be approached. That is why I also think that it was the right move when Slovenia rejected the process of membership of Croatia in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in the OECD. And I think that a country that does not respect international law, the rule of law, the decisions of the courts, does not in itself meet the high standards required by the OECD. One of these standards, however, is respect for international law, respect for judicial decisions. And the same is true of Hungary, because of its lack of respect for the arbitral decision concerning Mol, they have also renounced this support. So I think we need a firm and hard foreign policy, because with dialogue at the end of the day, they always drive us thirsty across the water.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u82	Mr. Primoz Hainz, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your answer. I must say, Mr Minister, that the purpose of those who – of course I am also aware of their own mistakes – therefore, some underestimate us, of course some have recalculated stories, but the fact is that we have also done a kind of stupidity, starting with this, let's say that the plebiscite question of joining Slovenia's independence in three villages, Škodelin, Mlini and Bužina has not been sent to these villagers. So that Molina, as a casino, went to Buje to ask Croatians whether he could have on this territory where they are, in short, directly at the border. This container, which I mentioned earlier, which is borderline, is our butter, of course, that's not what the Croats were setting up. We agreed, and it was kind of naive. Of course, I have to say that some of us claim that we should just talk to the Croats through, for some reason, I will say to the European public. Of course, I don't understand that very well. This may be a diplomatic expression, but I think we need to talk for our sakes, including for Croatian neighbours, those who want to have a good relationship. I would only remind you that in some way we must show our confidence. If I only remind you of Libelièa in Koroška, how did the people of the village, with the heroism of that time in World War I, achieve that they came to the Slovenian side. However, I fear that there are some among us who simply do not realize that this maritime border is important, but I do not underestimate the other borders because they simply do not know that Slovenia is a maritime state. And at this point, of course, I'm a little disappointed sometimes. If you have any further thoughts about this limit that I mentioned earlier, borders on the border, of course I would ask you for an addition, but otherwise thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u84	Minister Karl Erjavec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. Look, I have to say that the international community supports Slovenia when it comes to respecting the arbitral decision. You know the position of the European Commission, including in the Bled Strategic Forum, that the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, strongly supported the rule of law and that Croatia, if part of the European family, must respect international law, rule of law and decisions. Here, too, I must mention the position of the High Representative for Foreign Policy, Mrs Federico Mogherini, who is in the same position in particular because she is afraid that Croatia still has irregular borders with Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, and we know that the Western Balkans are already so and so very unstable and unregulated borders can certainly cause additional unnecessary tensions. It is therefore in the interest of all to regulate borders, in particular between the former republics, which are now independent and independent countries. It is clear that in 26 years Croatia has not dealt with any neighbouring border issue, which shows that the only solution is to help someone third to resolve this border. And I have to say that arbitration is also supposed to be a model for resolving other borders. Countries such as Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg also support, but it is true that Slovenia will have to take all the necessary steps to implement this arbitration decision. Therefore, I have already said several times that the border is clearly defined at sea and that the next day, when an arbitral decision was published, could begin to exercise its powers in an area where the border between Slovenia and Croatia is established, as far as the maritime area is concerned. I am afraid that if we do not have a firm and policy decision here, that the international community will also tell us over time, look, you had all our support, but instead we cannot defend the Slovenian sea, you can only exercise your interests yourself. That is why I believe that it is necessary to insist on a firm and decisive foreign policy when it comes to Croatia. I think that a country wishing to join the OECD must respect international law, even with regard to Schengen, I do not imagine that Croatia would become part of the Schengen, but it is breaking and violating international law and interfering with the Slovenian sea.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u86	Mrs Marija Bačič will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, who is rightly absent. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the floor. My question is addressed to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Majo Makovec Brenčič, asking: What activities is planned or implemented by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport with a view to the effective exercise of the right to free transport for adults with special needs within the framework of primary education? The fact that the country does not have an effective system for the integration of persons with special needs into the protection work centres allows for the possibility of integration into the system of adapted primary education by the age of 26. If we leave aside the benefits of the protection against long-term primary school attendance, which does not have adequate programmes or staff resources for working with older people, some problems need to be highlighted, namely the issue of implementation, and in particular the cost of transporting young people with special needs for primary education. Certain municipalities avoid this obligation for young people with special needs, very broadly interpreting the provision of Article 56 of the Basic School Act, which provides for the right to transport. In one of the judgments, the Administrative Court granted the right to free transport to a primary school for persons with special needs over 18 years of age and charged the municipality with costs. It stressed that the right is guaranteed not only by international conventions but also by the principles of our laws in the field of education and education, in particular the greatest benefit of the child, equal opportunities while taking into account the different needs of children, an individualised approach and immediate and continuous support and professional assistance in education and education programmes. But every parent of a child who is already in so much trouble cannot afford such a long - term justification for his or her right. For we have received an answer that each parent should specifically sue the congregation and justify his or her right to do so. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How does he plan to solve this problem? I request an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you very much. You'll get the answer. Mr Franz Breznik will raise the question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. The latter, however, is absent, as you know, and only Mr. Minister will answer. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, unfortunately, I expected most of the answer from Mrs. Minister of Education, Dr. Maja Brenčič. But I have to say, the question concerns Friday, when we met on the 50th. The international trade fair in Celje. The Committee on the Economy at this fair also discussed the issue of providing sufficient staff for the needs of the Slovenian economy. As you know, I'm interested in the problem. When you entered your term of office, I asked you if you had sufficient ground with the Minister, which is with the First Minister, I am telling him, the Prime Minister of the Government, that the economy has a big word and that you will also be able to create other policies in other departments. One of the most important resources, which are in addition to the economy, is also suitable personnel. As you know, all the addresses you are looking at in the news today, in the last six months, are talking about the lack of a whole range of personnel in Slovenia. On the one hand, we have structural unemployment, that is, the school system produces personnel, unfortunately, which no one needs, it also works for families, the pressures of young people wherever they turn, the sociologists too on the line, and on the other hand, we lack both tools and welders, as well as machine tools, electrotechnics, bionics, especially mechanics in various production and, on the other hand, in service services, guards, that we do not talk about truck drivers, builders and so on. So all that I've already pointed out three years ago and the previous term of office is that it will happen that, due to the lack of sufficient personnel, we may not have so much foreign investment, because foreign investors, in addition to an encouraging business environment, are also looking at the workforce. If we look at Slovaks, Slovaks only have more than 40% of naturalists and even technical staff in colleges, of course this percentage is about 30%. We are only talking about higher education here. In secondary education, however, this manca is an even greater and even greater shortage. So, Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me: What are your conversations about this with the secretary? Has she trusted you with any plans to provide sufficient personnel for the Slovenian economy to further encourage foreign investment and to further boost economic growth? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u91	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for the question. At the outset, I would like to point out that the issue of providing adequate staff for the economy is a problem that goes beyond one resource. In addition to education, I think I am the judge, at least by our organisation of work, including the Ministry of Labour. Various groups of staff should be included, and students should also be included in addition to employees and job seekers. The future will require new knowledge related to globalisation, automation, digitisation. Particular attention should be paid to vulnerable target groups, older people, people with disabilities and the most pervasive ones, namely those persons between the ages of 30 and 35 who can bear economic growth. Economic operators face a number of challenges. Let me list only the most common, and I think that does not belong to education: the burden of social contributions which has a negative impact on the motivation of people for work and advancement; the inability of employment and forgiveness, this is the inability to adapt to the situation on the market; the lack of talent, this is pronounced in the IT sector where engineers go abroad, where they get a higher salary for the same work, because it is paid in Slovenia among the most burdened; Slovenian legislation is quite restrictive to foreigners, third-country nationals, foreigners can only be employed in Slovenia if there is no adequate staff and it turns out that the foreigner is better or more suitable than the Slovenian worker; the social transfers of the Republic of Slovenia provide for the survival of unemployed persons, and, in a way that they do not have the need to seek employment; the simple calculation of why the foreigner is better or more suitable than the Slovenian worker; the social transfers of the Republic of Slovenia is better than the Slovenian worker; the need to make the necessary payments to make for the transitions; and the necessary to make the necessary to make the necessary arrangements for the necessary. It should also be said that the economy under the new regulation has the possibility of influencing 20% of the school programme and that we must achieve this more than we are doing now. Finally, human capital is one of the main factors in competitiveness and long-term growth. This factor is under-exploited and will therefore require greater and sustained investment in knowledge, in one coherent link between several ministries, schools, jobs and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u93	Yes, in fact, I thank the Minister for his answer. You know I'm, I can say, your soul mate, I'd call it. What you have just said is basically a criticism of you as a minister in this government of your colleague, Mrak. And I agree with that. Your findings as an economic minister are exactly the same as my findings, i.e. a non-stimulating working environment where those who do nothing receive the same social transfers as those who work. It's not a social state, it's a social state. On the other hand, we are talking about taxes between gross and net wages. You're saying exactly what I'm saying to Anji the Ripper, and she's like living in space. On the other hand, the school ministry, the total monopoly in the education system, produces the personnel that no one needs, but I don't mean everything, but I don't think your school system is bad, I'm saying that at least in primary schools this school system is okay, then there are some unrealistic expectations of parents, then, look, I've told the public many times: Have you ever heard a child say that he wants to be a sociologist, a political scientist, not least politics or anything? Usually a child wants a practical profession. And these practical professions, see, this government also gives money for something completely different. The law on the dual school system has been completely defaced, totally mutilated, my colleague sitting in front of me, prepared this law, is excellent, our version of the dual school system, this is the law on vocational education, where we say that the dual school system is, and this year we have only 53 students involved in the dual school system, and this is a pilot project for only four professions, a stonehead, a toolbox, I think a bowl, and this is where it ends. So, Minister, I appeal to you somehow to hit a table in the government and to both colleagues, so both ministers in this area take a step forward. So much for me, thank you very much, and I expect some more of the answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Restoršek, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u95	I have to say that I think it's not enough that we've adopted this dual school system, that we're going to have to do something about giving the value of work, that we're going to have to talk work. We just live on average on the conviction we pulled from before, go to school so you don't have to work. And from this, I take it that we draw original sin. And it wasn't enough just to accept the dual system, but we need to recommence it. From what I can tell, I think, 200 or 300 entries this year, we only had 50. Absolutely not enough. Without some additional measures, there will be no progress in this area. But the fact is that companies face a shortage of labour, that the problem is mainly manufacturing workers, builders, welders, chiropractors, cooks, waiters, drivers and also highly educated and specialised workers: farming, microbiology, nanotechnology, chemical engineering, robotics, electrical engineers, mechanics, mechanical engineering, telecommunications. In any case, I think that this is one complex system that we will have to solve together, not just the state, especially the state with the conditions, on the other hand, the economy and everywhere where the labour force will be taken as an integral part of the process, where they will realize that without it there is nothing, there will be no progress. Where labour is taken as a means, I think they already have problems, but they have no chance of being successful in the future. In short, I believe that this is a complex issue that will have to be solved in all areas, in school, in the labour market, in terms of working conditions, motivation for work, at economic level, with regard to the promotion of work and promotion of these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you very much. You're asking me to do it on a procedural basis? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u97	Yes, Madam Vice President. I hope that you also understand those who are still gathered here in this Chamber, that there is an urgent need for a debate, and that is why I want to have a discussion under the rules of procedure. So this is a crucial time for me, this is the time of the fourth industrial revolution, which has been going on in Germany for several years, in highly developed countries, the cards are getting mixed up, we can say completely new. I am monitoring the technologies myself for a while while I was still working at the Siemens factory in Austria, even partly in Germany, I can say that it started back then 15 years ago. But there are completely new professions, so industry architects 4.0 in factories, bionics, mechatronics, as you mentioned, chemical engineers, polymers under high pressure need new experts again, tools get new functions, new tools, there are smart cities, smart cars, electromobility, completely new trends. And these trends are expected by Slovenia with a school system from the 19th to the 20th century. This is this problem, and this is the monopoly of the educational system, which does not allow private initiatives that do not want to allow the private sector to somehow educate these niche issues, who wants to always have control in the dual school system of companies that are already exportable, which already have top experts who could educate these students and could give them extra money and additional encouragement. Last but not least, you Vice President, you come from Desus, see if these guys get a job at 17, pay for what's best for the cashier's checkout. It is best for young people to get to know their future profession and, of course, the school system that offers advancement. We talked on Friday, the most beautiful thing is when you get to the BMW, and this CEO of the BMW, the doctor of science, says that he started in this company as an apprentice and that the system allows him to get to the doctor of science from the apprenticeship, and now he's the president of the board. This is the story of this ugly rotten capitalism, as they say on the United Left, and this is the story of success. People get to know their profession at 17, if that doesn't suit them, they can change their profession, not come from college when they're 35 years old, take advantage of all the social bonuses, they haven't paid one euro of contributions yet, and they find that this isn't for him at all, that he was educated in some system that no man needs, called a master. Today, we can say that you're 35 years old and realize that your profession means nothing in some society, and that there are thousands of unemployed people like you. That's the wrong thing to do. We must also return this value system and all of these are real policies, the real promotion of these professions, the true story that someone who is an apprentice and then will be a master, also at the level of an engineer or an economist, if of course he has enough knowledge. I therefore hope that you will accept my proposal, and that we will talk about it, we will have a full debate. The greatest thanks are also to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the votes. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smercol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u99	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, respectable minister, colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! When I listened to one of the coalition partners at the June session, when he asked the Prime Minister how it was to draw on European funds, I was very disappointed with his information or answers. The answer was that he doesn't actually have the data. Therefore, Madam Minister, with the knowledge that we are in the second half of 2017, and if we know that the 2014-2020 perspective is to be completed or to be concluded both in substance and financially by 2022, 2023, I am interested in the cut-off date, the first half of this year: Where are we with European funds or where we are on a substantive, time-consuming basis, and especially financially when we draw these funds? Given that we know that we have five funds within these EU funds, I am interested in: How is it in the area of cohesion funds and the European Regional Development Fund, where are we, how far are we? Why did I decide to ask this question? On Friday, I was in the world of Posavje region, where the mayors also invited members from Posavje. Together we have found that we have been dealing too long with sharing in the East and the West, when we decided what from this perspective belongs not only to us, but also to what we want from this perspective. When we asked ourselves for a while, unfortunately, why we were given less resources than in the previous European perspective and whether the funds were somehow different, the key question was whether we were all able to start up together or put the pace into a higher gear so that we would not be asking ourselves, after 2020, whether we had any plans to draw on European funds, or, on the other hand, how do we even know how to implement these plans? And thirdly, as key, how to also financially evaluate and implement these plans. In my opinion, however, it is crucial that we turn here also to local communities when, on the one hand, the municipality does not follow the average demand of municipalities when imposing new obligations on them, and on the other hand, privileged municipalities and privileged projects also share funds with new laws, which are lex specialis, not some lex generis. I am interested in specific figures for individual European funds: Where are we with substantive, time-consuming and, above all, financial aspects in drawing on European funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u101	Good afternoon. Dear Member, everyone else is present! Thank you for that question. First of all, given the question I got, I didn't really know how wide this debate could go. The fact is that it is precisely because cohesion is a very broad area that we report quarterly to the competent committee. So it was practically on Friday that a report was presented to the Committee on EU Affairs, referring to the period for which you are asking, is said to be the first half of the year. First thing first, a few specific numbers. Each cohesion story begins with a decision on support. This is the part where, in fact, the SVRK, as the managing authority of a particular intermediate body, provides the resources which, after or in the context of the direct confirmation of a public programme and call for tender, may be implemented. At the end of June, we had such decisions on support for a billion 120 million. I can say that we are now at 300 billion in mid-September, and I believe we will be a billion and a half by the end of the year. This basically means half of the total amount that Slovenia has at its disposal. Why do I actually believe that we will be able to make decisions, all those that are still needed, somewhere in 2018 and until the end of 2019? Because we are simply in about two years, since we issued the first decision, I will not explain the problems behind us and what we were fighting with then, but the fact is that we can only reach the first decision in 2015, we will come halfway in two years and in the next two years practically to the whole. By the end of 2023, we need to draw up these funds. This is not the data that is fully relevant, but what is extremely important is that we then look at how the programmes are implemented by how the contracts are concluded. And here the contracts concluded are said to be implemented, the programmes, the calls, the direct confirmations are already being implemented, they were for about one billion at the end of June, which is 32% of the total, or at the end of August, when we have the latest data, we were at 100 billion. In short, in fact, we are lagging behind those who are watching quarterly, what we have a decision to support and what is then actually going on. That's the basics. However, the last step is, of course, when beneficiaries start to draw on the funds. But there we are at 206 million euros right now. So much for a start. Now you ask a little bit more specifically about the various funds and you connect the story with the practical regions, or I call it an agreement for the development of the regions or how we can actually do projects from the bottom up, because, of course, there are also local communities that can participate, and of course all 12 statistical regions. It is precisely now that the Councils of these statistical regions are essentially deciding which projects will be confirmed at the level of each region in the first call, and are in fact also discussing how and which projects they would try to carry out in the second call. And this is where we get to the amount of these funds. I have to say that what it is [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Ah, now I'm running out of time, maybe I'll answer that part in the second half of your question. [[…]] Maybe it makes sense to say that, because we mix a lot of things up. I think we have taken really big steps towards ensuring the development of the regions, for projects for up from below over 450 million euros, but perhaps more later.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u102	Madam Secretary, thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please fill in the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u103	Yes, thank you. I didn't want to go into the past myself, but I didn't want to talk about that we really had a bad negotiation and that there were a lot of problems with the information system. I believe these things are saving you now. As with each project, of course, you must first know whether it makes sense to register what the content of this project is and how it is especially time-consuming and, finally, a key financial picture of the project. You said before about cohesion, 206 million is being drained. I believe that there have been a lot of allocations, but my key question was whether, as a country, we are able to draw, in time of course, all the financial opportunities that various funds offer us. Why does this seem so crucial to me? I come from the Posavje region alone, where we have three rather solidly large congregations and three small congregations. In particular, the mayors of these smaller municipalities have stressed, not for the first time, probably not for the last time, that when the state signs out the conditions, these tendering conditions are adapted to the larger ones, for example with regard to population units and all the other mayors, even if connected, they do not reach a basic platform so that they can even successfully apply for the tender. So, Madam Secretary, in this second part, I want to know: Will you continue to play a greater role in calling on local communities and their calls for these tendering conditions within these statistical regions to be designed so that not only the largest municipalities will be privileged and that smaller municipalities, in particular those border municipalities, will have the opportunity to actively participate in the drawing-up of European funds? We all find that we have a deficit on [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Here you are, Madam Minister, Mrs. Alenka Smercol.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you for saying that again. First part first. I deeply believe that any project that is also well-prepared can absolutely receive funds. I know that this cannot be fully within the framework of the Structural Funds, of course we are aware that these projects can only be linked to the 11 opportunities Europe offers, but Europe offers these eleven possibilities for all. It's the same for all countries. So it's not really about who's negotiating in any way, it's about the countries that have to decide. We've made up our minds. And the fact is that what is crucial in this new period is that Europe has no longer received some stories where, let's say, we regions, as in the past, could be approved in the form of €600 million quotas. It was absolutely impossible here, indeed we came in the last month only when it was absolutely impossible to take any step, we were not the only ones, and the fact is that it was the coherent regional development law that we adopted in 2011, when you and the Members adopted it, that we allowed us, nevertheless, to now, in amending the operational programme, a large part of the deal to be devoted to the development of the regions. And if I compare how much money Slovenia has received less, not because it would not negotiate, but simply because it is more developed, it is 25% less, and what has been my wish all along and we have succeeded now is that it is essentially more than €450 million to the regions, which is proportionally even higher than it was back then. Major projects in these regions. Arrangements for the development of regions, but what we must all be aware of is that some can go to the EU and some can't. And in regional development agreements, some resources need to be made, even in the future, if this instrument is to be maintained, at the level of the country itself, it is said to be integrated, for those projects that the region recognises for their key development projects, the region is not an individual municipality, and one part will have to be completely financed from the state budget in the future, because otherwise it will not work. One part, however, must be an integral part of this agreement when it comes to EU funds. And that, in fact, if we're really planning this right, I believe I'm doing a good job. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u107	Yes, of course, the vice president. Personally, I think that drawing on European funds is a topic where it should probably not come to division in terms of client or political preferences and value systems, so that all of us who come from such or other areas are interested in this topic. And here I agree that, otherwise, the lowest entity that has successfully participated primarily through the mayors, not least the Members, that the regional development agencies and the political bodies that we have, such as the saints of individual regions, are the ones that decide. Personally, I think it is necessary to have one thorough debate here in the National Assembly that, for the first time, all Members are aware that we are about half of this European perspective, that we may all look together in concrete cases where there may be some negative stories, where something may need to be changed, or through changes in operational plans or somewhere else, in short, to give to all those working locally or regionally, some encouragement that we all see together that Europe is ours, that European funds are available and, of course, that we need to get them in our local areas as effectively as possible, but that there will not be any segregation between first-class and second-class people. I hope, Mr Vice-President, that in tomorrow's vote, we will all, irrespective of our political preferences, decide that it is essential, through the debate in the National Assembly, to give our support to you, Madam Minister, that if you are stuck somewhere, we should give a positive signal both to you and to individual regions, that European funds are available as soon as possible and, of course, as effectively as possible. I therefore propose that the debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Lisec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the votes. Ms Anita Koleša will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac, and Minister for Culture, Mr Anton Persak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u109	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister of Culture, I hope that you will be joined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because I would both like to ask the following question. In Slovenia, culture rightly applies to one of the basic builders and symbols of our national consciousness, with which we proudly represent ourselves abroad and with other nations move differences, telecommunications and cooperation in the field of culture. Cultural diplomacy is an important component of the modern foreign policy of each country, including ours, as confirmed by the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in 2015 in the National Assembly, which is recognised by the recognition of Slovenian cultural excellence as the goal of Slovenian foreign policy and by supporting the cultural recognition of the Republic of Slovenia as an important priority area of Slovenian foreign policy. Today, in my question, in particular, both ministers would like to pay particular attention to cultural representations, which I see as an extremely welcome form, both physically and idyllic form of meeting people and different cultures in the broadest sense. In the Republic of Slovenia, only a handful of countries have their cultural representations, which are present with their diplomatic and consular representations. Slovenia is also represented through cultural institutes only in a handful of other countries. To this end, I ask: Or in what way does the Republic of Slovenia go to countries expressing an interest in opening up their cultural representation in our country? Do you have information on which countries have this intention? I also want to know: Are there plans to increase the direct representation of Slovenian culture through our cultural representation abroad? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Tone Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you very much for the question. As you know, the Republic of Slovenia actively cooperates with many countries in the field of culture. And it should be pointed out that in recent years there has been an increasing number of cooperations, which we are particularly pleased with. We pay great attention to cooperation with neighbouring countries. With two years past, with Hungary and Austria, we have signed new cooperation programmes, a statement with Russia on the exchange of cultural seasons and so on. Strengthening foreign presence in Slovenia also through cultural centres, which are increasingly fortunately more, is of course important for the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a culturally important country; Germany, France, Italy, also Hungary has its cultural centre in Slovenia and so on. There is no special review of the countries which intend to open such a centre in Slovenia. For States are not obliged to inform the host countries beforehand. But when there is a concrete initiative to open a new centre, of course we are working constructively with a country that expresses such objectives. Slovenia currently has two cultural centres abroad, SKICA in Vienna and SKC in Berlin. The first cultural centre was established in 2011 in Vienna and has been very successful in settling in Vienna and also in the wider Austrian cultural space. The cultural centre in Berlin was established last year and also works successfully. In addition to both centres, Slovenian diplomats are also active in the field of the promotion of Slovenian culture abroad, which, despite extensive content files, are also working actively in this area. Let me just give you an example of the embassy in Moscow, Hungary and so on. Our source, according to the MZZ, is excellent in this and diplomatic networks also provide appropriate professional support. An important part of cultural diplomacy is also the application of our language in the world, in particular as one of the official languages of the European Union, and the promotion of the use and learning of Slovenian especially where Slovenian communities are present. The Republic of Slovenia offers support to Slovenian language lecturers at foreign universities, activities of the Slovenian Centre as a second foreign language, scientific cooperation, networking, other forms of learning and learning Slovenian abroad. The foreign policy strategy, as is known, also speaks of Slovenia putting cultural attachés or cultural centres at key locations, ensuring that diplomatic representatives are adequately qualified for the role of ambassadors of Slovenian culture. These are integrated into diplomatic representations and consulates due to the synergy of recognition and economics. Exceptionally, and where organic development so dictates, physically separate cultural representations, so-called sketches, can also be formed as part of the Slovenian House where it exists. The priority geographical areas are the countries of our traditional markets, we at the Ministry of Culture, and I think it is very important to be present in the global cultural metropolis as well. In the draft of the new national programme for culture, as you know, which is now under public debate, the Minister proposes the opening of Slovenian cultural centres in the following cultural capitals, probably not immediately in all, but: Brussels, Paris, London, New York, Moscow, Beijing, and the establishment of a special network of mediators and promoters of Slovenian culture around the world, which we once called the Honorary Consulate of Slovenian Culture. The opening of new Slovenian cultural centres is one of the priority themes of both areas, closely linked to limited financial resources. However, we hope that these sketches will soon be joined by another one. It is that at the Ministry of Culture we believe that the promotion and promotion of Slovenian culture in the world is crucial. We know that a number of other activities have been globalisationd, that today we are having difficulty talking about the national economy, difficult to speak of national foreign policy and so on, and culture means intercultural dialogue and in fact means putting communities into international space in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u113	Yes, Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I am pleased to hear these answers, but I would very much like to hear the reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, given that he was present today at this point in the agenda, and although I understand that you are saying that you are working well with the Ministry, I am interested, however, in this view, which contains this cultural diplomacy. That is why, Mr Vice-President, if this part of my question can be taken in such a way as to have a written part from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you very much. So you'll get this answer, of course, I don't know why the cabinet didn't apologize because the Foreign Minister is going to the United States for a week, so I don't know if it could have come to you you'll get an answer. [[…]] Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u115	Dear Minister, the next question I will ask you has been encouraged by two of the most prominent representatives of the Government at this time in the current investment of the second track, both Prime Minister Miro Cerar and the Secretary of State Mr Leben at the Ministry of Infrastructure, who repeatedly publicly repeat that the investment will provide 9,000 new jobs when the second track is built. And I want to check a little bit about the seriousness and credibility of this information they've been given over and over again. And I understand very well that it is not meant here, I would say, directly and directly to construction engineers, to concretes and so on, but that it is a matter of indirect jobs that are actually created by large investments, because we know that big construction investments or actually building itself to a greater extent connects or somehow renders work as much as 43% of the economy. These are known indicators. That's what he's holding. I am also aware of the fact that, with greater investments, it is possible to place these flat-rate estimates, I do not know, on a billion so much and so many jobs and so on, but I also know that, in the event of greater investments in risk assessment, the component of the provision of human resources is also an integral part. The second track is the largest investment in Slovenia and it is also undoubtedly necessary to assess the capacity of working resources at home or whether this is just a matter of tendering conditions. These are two essential differences that need to be actually processed. I believe your ministry is already preparing for this. My question is: How does your ministry prepare for this? How does it assess the provision of staff resources in this largest investment?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u116	Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Member, thank you for asking. Although I always try to answer the questions I get in my best faith and with the best knowledge, but here this question is absolutely, if we look at the competences of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, of course these are not competences. We are certainly within the Office of Employment, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, and within it we can respond to the needs of staff and try to provide the economy with programmes of active employment policy. That the staff they need are as successful as possible is also the issue of employment policy on work permits, i.e. on internal market control. From this point of view, as regards the investments themselves, which you have been exhibiting, you have also said about your question that both the Prime Minister and the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure in the public sector have provided data. Of course, I can read again the data with which I am a member of the government as Minister of Labour, but you are aware of these. My added value is that I can't see the data that's been made public many times. If you want to ask a question about whether the assessment of created new jobs is legitimate or not, or whether there is a problem here within the methodology, I suggest that you ask in particular those responsible. And also in the framework of the prepared investment documentation, this is probably part of the investment documentation. As far as jobs are concerned, I assure you that every job is welcome in the Republic of Slovenia and that we will make an effort for every job because it is an additional profit in paying contributions and taxes in our country. This must be of interest to all of us, whether they do it at the Employment Service, or also to foreigners, if you want to ask me about it. Certainly, new investments, investments in public structure, mean better quality of life and, of course, are welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u119	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. But your answer is somehow just a confirmation of my opinion, which I was most afraid that both the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure would be using such data only in some pre-election referendum campaign. In short, if this is a serious approach, I believe that a particular ministry must, especially if it is an economy or an infrastructure, that there is an absolute need for the participation of at least three ministries, that is to say the Ministry concerned, in this case infrastructure, then the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Education, and, as the umbrella part that actually covers it, then the Ministry of Labour is, in such a large project together, sufficient to assess the risks, what is the possibility of providing labour resources in such a large investment. Because the investment is actually like that at the door. The minister promised to start the investment this year. That's saying, it's not an assessment of what happens if it's a few years from now, but it's actually an investment just outside the door. It is true, then, that there is also a social part of your ministry, which in some ways devalues work as work, and that is why we now have a very large shortage of staff in the Republic of Slovenia, both on technical staff, on professional and technical staff, in the work of tourism, where, in fact, the Ministry of Education does not follow. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u121	Yes, thank you for your word. I don't want to be here in some pre-election campaign for and against the referendum, it's about exploitation and my answer will be excluded from some context. I will say again: Every investment in the country is good for jobs. More jobs mainly involve more contributions and taxes. And when it comes to investing in infrastructure, which is important both in terms of logistics and trans-shipment of key logistics companies in Slovenia, it is more than a plus. Now, from this to make the story that the Ministry of Labour was not asked and did not make a 10-year assessment of what kind of personnel it would take, and whether we should start training people at schools now, who would then be able to ask the same question about what happened between 2004 and 2008, when we had the biggest economic growth, the lowest rate of unemployment, but economic growth was mainly at the expense of construction, where we then had 2009, 2010 with Vegrad’s workers – you know what. [[…]] How strategic and preconceived, I wouldn't. And I really wouldn't be used in this as a minister right now, which, as far as it's concerned, I'm really not competent to say how and what's going to happen, to use it as a framework for a poorly prepared investment. It is important that the investment, as it must, is made in particular. But about the personnel, things are going to happen. It is certainly a matter of investment in the Republic of Slovenia, including in view of the decisions of young people, how, why they will decide which direction they will choose primarily in the secondary school, is an important behaviour about such investments, which will, of course, create new jobs in the medium term. But I also need to turn to you when you said that we are going to devalue our work with our actions. Then I'll hear you vote when we talk about minimum income and people who can't survive with 297 euros. And then things are connected, so that when we talk, all things are connected, minimum income, minimum wages, average wages. Then it's nice to see him vote in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Again, I don't know, maybe you misunderstood me. I don't judge you as guilty of not following the preparations or the human resources needs of this second track. Far from it. It is true, however, that this is an important future that will have an impact, whether we will actually survive this investment in Slovenia or not. I believe that we all very much want and strive to actually keep as much money as possible, if I say so domestically and quickly, within the Republic of Slovenia. This is said to be domestic and domestic. I believe that it is best to provide so many and so many working visas for foreigners from European and non-European countries and that this investment is implemented. This is the easiest thing to do, I believe, but that we are fully capable of doing it ourselves, which I think we are, even though I know very well that certain references are questionable, because we are only building investments that have been in large decline, we are able to do it ourselves. That's the point. This is a serious question. And just for a little while, look at certain European countries, because you mentioned social and so on, with us social – we are talking about social welfare for foreigners, look at certain neighbouring European countries, if a foreigner does not have 5 years of permanent residence in their country, there is no entitlement to any social assistance. On Friday, however, he comes to the Republic of Slovenia and receives social assistance on Monday. That's another question. And I'm talking about Slovenian workers. This is my sincere intention to give as many domestic workers as possible. Domestic workers or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia need work, then they will have money and then they will spend more and in fact the situation in the Republic budget will improve. This is my basic, correct and fair purpose. I believe that education is a process, that it is not a firefight from today to tomorrow. But today it's a youth of VII. The level of education is roasted by burgers at kiosks in Ljubljana, but we lack technical staff. I believe that the academic profession is no different from the level of education. That's the only criterion. Look at the comparisons abroad, the professional cadre is much more valued than the academic cadre with high titles. But we have condition VII everywhere. level of education, whether from school benches or board chalk [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u124	Your suggestion? He's not here. Good. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, who is absent, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr. Zdravko Počivalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm listening to this whole thing, and I'm gonna start a little different than I thought in the introductions. If someone were to watch how many of us are in here now and what we are going to do, they would see that anti-intellectualism prevails in this country and that we are not overly clever. It seems to me that it would be wiser to solve the Magne question with a range of sub-questions in Maribor with a portfolio minister, which is now leaving. The secretary's gone. With a team of ministers, ministers covering this area, there is a conference where they talk about greater involvement, more equal opportunities in education. On the one hand, we have some fundamental keys if you want economic indicators, starting with economic growth, which have shown us very well for some time. Unfortunately, this does not somehow fall into the pockets of most of those who create it. But if this is the case, at the time of the conjuncture it is necessary to think about what will happen when we arrive at a time of a little dryer cows. A recent report by the OECD shows that during the crisis Slovenia was essentially one of the countries that had the most problems with education, that I was not talking about science at all, which I wanted to ask the minister under which the department belonged and, in part, the minister, who I thought was probably a nightmare, when I was trying to pursue a smart specialisation strategy. We are also talking a lot about the demographic fund here. You know, however we turn this square circle, these pretty unhappy 25 years of Slovenia, it's really not SMC's fault for everything, there's not even a left, we get somehow that some of our key added values are not diamonds, there's no oil, there's no I don't know what, there's water and forests we don't know how to use, and it's basically our knowledge. And if we go to see how the stakes in the science funding budget have been reduced, let alone some basic science, somehow we come to the point that if I metaphorically say, 20 years old motorcyclists are hard to compete with someone who comes along with a new steyer, and they also realize why he bought it. I hope the Minister will enlighten me a little, that things are moving a little bit. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u127	Dear Member, President, Members, Members of Parliament! If I raised the question correctly, I should answer something about the issue of financing or non-financing of science. Initially, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recognised that we are aware that science is extremely important for the development of society, that science is identified as a priority area, that in 2018 we will devote an additional €18 to 20 million to science, that about €828 million per year are allocated to the financing of public research organisations by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and that at the beginning of the novel of the Law on Research and Development Activities is foreseen for a 1 per cent annual growth of these funds. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, however, we agree that R & D funds should be increased or increased faster. The main objective is to co-finance the development projects of the economy, and it is then the companies that decide to cooperate with other companies or public research organisations. In our ministry, we allocate projects for research, development and innovation to the end of this perspective 75 million more, twice 30 and once 15. Promoting different fields of research, development and innovation in the economy is an important segment that affects the competitiveness of Slovenian companies in international markets and also enables the integration of a global value chain. Above all, investment in research, development and innovation is labour-intensive and work-related with knowledge institutions and everywhere where this story flows in terms of the integration of knowledge and economic institutions, results are then greater in the development and success of these companies. Therefore, primarily adequate grants are made by the country where the incentive for the economy is concerned, and an important contribution of the economy itself is made. Investment incentives in research, development and innovation are important due to the main objective of the European Union and Slovenia to increase investment in R & D to 3% of gross social product by 2020. Incentives to invest in research, development and innovation by the country in large companies also mean a strong rise in private investment in these areas, as co-financing of R & D projects in large companies is supported by public funds up to 25%, and we believe that the additional State funding for R & D and innovation is important for achieving these objectives and for maintaining the competitiveness and economic growth of the country. Companies must be competitive in relation to highly developed external markets, and this will not work without greater investment in the RRI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u129	Thank you. Well, I'm glad that after three years, we're very much in agreement with the minister. Since the beginning, I have felt that a company like Slovenia and a country like Slovenia, as I metaphorically call it, needs at least eight Krks and at least a dozen Collectors, because only such a well-based economy can create enough money within companies to research with some serious state aid. We've had some partially happy, partially unfortunate stories so with centres of excellence, now we have these famous SRIPs that are a little too centralized. After all, you know, if we only locate science excessively in Ljubljana, Ljubljana will end up short. If I had more time, I'd explain it to you somehow. I expected the Minister to be here, I can understand the Minister and his position, but you know, some serious science is not without funding into some basic science. Even if we don't see the results around the first corner. Just like curiosity: the Internet and I are a generation in 1969, and today without it we are almost unimaginable of life. And here I think there is a key problem where politics should also be more mature in the end than some key gentlemen who are in charge of the science sector. In the end, something is negotiated, and a few million are more, and any coalition and government are bragging, and those gentlemen are happy, but look, I'll explain it to you on the case. We will now have an intervention law that will cover the health issue, while at the same time we have some 10 million pennies in insurance companies. Why not the money we are looking for in the budget – but now Mrs Milojka is not responsible for everything she is trying to do here – why not go to science instead?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u130	Thank you very much. There was no question? [[advertising from the hall]] It was. Here you go, Minister Zdravko Restoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u131	I'm just gonna say something about how we choose projects. In selecting projects that are then co-financed in this development research direction, we take into account the coherence of the smart specialisation strategy in the first place, including pilot and demonstration projects and competence-building projects, in particular the development of business processes and knowledge transfer; we are based on the objectives of the smart specialisation strategy and the endorsed SRIP strategic development and innovation partnership action plans. You said they're centralized, but they represent all nine areas of use. These activities will help to introduce at least 69 innovations, 10 patent applications and 10 new product orientations by 2022, and launch 51 high-tech solutions, services, products to target, mostly foreign markets. And to build the competences of human resources, 10 competent centres will be created, one for each area of smart specialization, plus one for the area of design management, which will establish appropriate regional competent models with specific sectoral profiles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural request? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Of course I went to look at this SRIP, I'm somewhat skeptical also because I was very critical of this smart specialization strategy. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall, technical problems, time not counted]] Like I said, time didn't run, I was critical of the smart specialization strategy, because it's kind of under-directed. But not now, Mr Minister, who doesn't even have that much money, but I think we need to have some serious debate about science in the National Assembly, after all, we have something here with the highest level of education, probably 20 of us certified researchers with the code of researcher or researcher. It seems to me that in view of the conjuncture in which we are, we must go beyond what is usually the most said in the National Assembly, Mr Breznik, the fourth industrial revolution up and down, that we must actually begin to resolve, and what we will do in the next 25 years in this society and country. As is now based on an economic development model, it is too literally based, as I call it, on cutting a worker like sausages. And if there's ever a time, it's a time when we really have to ask these questions. The new programme of young researchers and researchers should probably be asked and applied in practice. Perhaps we should ask ourselves a somewhat more serious question, which branches of science to develop. Perhaps you should place your ear more seriously on the window of the National Assembly, and hear top scientists who deal with basic sciences and warn us that they actually can't work on gills or air, or as a director of the most important research institute has long said in an interview, because we don't expect much, we are expecting a cup of coffee per year per citizen. It seems to me that at least three cups of prolonged coffee should be expected, and another one of those buckets of coffee should be expected, if I'm metaphorically speaking. And I think these are some areas we're essentially neglecting. And, after all, as a scientist passing into the aggregate state of politics, my professional deontology would have been at odds if I hadn't warned you about that. I hope now that I will be supported and that we will have a debate on this. At the same time, I would like to say that I would like to translate these questions and answers into a foreign example. But you know, in Ireland, the opposition and the coalition agree on which topic is crucial and are then jointly addressed at such a meeting. We'd call it a mini-interpellation, as my co-worker Lara said. And it seems to me that science is one area, because then half the ministries would come and we'd work out the subject and probably move on and on and on. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dr. Trček, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. September, in the context of the vote. Mrs Janja Sluga will ask the Minister for Culture, Mr Anton Persak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, in the last week's report in various Slovenian media, she has rounded up information that you are preparing a new draft law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia at the Ministry of Culture. This draft should provide for a different method of charging RTV contributions. In the media, it was clear that this RTV contribution should be paid on the basis of personal income, no more on the household, but even on the number of full-year household members, and also that companies, i.e. legal persons, should pay it after a new one. For natural persons somewhere at 0.55% of the income of the individual and 0.15% of the total income of the legal person. We all know that every year we are considering a report on the functioning of public broadcasting also on our committee. In recent years, the number of pledges to pay this contribution has been increasing steadily and this is how it is collected at the annual level, I will say over my thumb, almost EUR 100 million, which actually represents about three quarters of the revenue of public television, while of course we are also getting into the data that public RTV is falling despite the fact that it is actually trying to adapt or even getting closer to the content of commercial television programmes. Since this is a proposal for a measure which, of course, in the opinion of the SMC Group, has expressed a great deal of disapproval and rightly so, of course, I am asking you to define this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u136	Mr. Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u137	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member! First of all, thank you for the opportunity to say again that the Ministry of Culture does not propose a change in the accounting and payment of RTV contributions. This campaign, which I believe is also unbelievably credible in view of the fact that the reason for it is one internal working material, which has unfortunately come to the public, where this model, which is now so black, is mentioned as an option for reflection, which in fact occurred in the past, already in 2013, when such a method of payment of RTV contributions was introduced in Finland and the Ministry was then examined and decided not to propose at that time, and this is now merely an example of how they have it arranged. Once the ministry and later, of course, the National Assembly will consider changing this contribution to see this possibility, and consider it as one of the options, possible, as well. It is said that this has been mentioned in an internal paper that we have dealt with with with with some parliamentary groups in the context of the preparation of the media strategy. This is really all that can be said about it and what is meaningful about it. We are not proposing a change in the payment of RTV contributions. But as for the second part of your question, which I think is much more neat than this duck, so to speak, is media, but what you mentioned is that actually RTV collects some substantial resources with a contribution, and that for various reasons, perhaps even sometimes because of insufficient understanding of the role of public RTV, it tries to compete with commercial radio and television houses and even thinks about reducing the programmes for which it is set up, regardless of that, I will now say how much the ratings are in some cases. Because the purpose of some programs is not to gather crowds of viewers around them, like some sort of reality show, but to maintain some condition, if I may say so, certain programs, certain programming content that other media don't provide. These are cultural programmes, and finally RTV is the largest cultural public institution in Slovenia, the field of science, children's programmes, programmes for young people and so on. This is basically the basic duty of RTV in addition to information, as objective as possible, as possible, this is what is why we are actually paying a contribution to RTV, that these programmes still exist, and that populations, such as children, youth, cultural audiences, the audience that wants to see their own scientific, educational content, have a place to look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u139	Thank you very much. In fact, here with the Minister, we can agree absolutely on the programming content. We can probably also agree to discuss how these significant assets, which I also agree, are being used on public RTV. However, because I was somehow confused on the one hand, you say that the Ministry is not preparing changes for the media, in the media it was possible to track your statement – now I do not know if it is true – that it is a work draft; but the draft usually leads to some changes, and now you have also told us that this is an internal working material from 2013 that you discussed it in the context of the preparation of the new strategy. [[…]] Now I'm a little confused. One seems to rule out the other, or it's not entirely consistent. So, once again, I ask you to speak more clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u141	Very briefly. One more time. This is the current internal working material in connection with the preparation of the novel of the RTV Act, which focuses mainly on other topics. However, this paper also lists options that have already been considered or that are possible as reflections in the future. However, it explicitly states in this paper that no change in the TV contribution is foreseen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u143	Thank you, Chairman. The public was in some way shocked by the minister's consent to the intervention law for the rehabilitation of unpaid bills in hospitals. I hope to say that if Mr Marble were still in this place as the Ombudsman of the budget as the guardian of the stability of the financial system, he would not be at that press conference with the Minister of Health, who is in fact not preparing any proposals, but only asking for additional money. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary-General: Did you, before agreeing to pay the money back to suppliers — not patients, but suppliers — and thus also require a rebalancing of the state budget, carry out prior consultations with the European Commission? Indeed, it is so-called State aid and a violation of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. You know that. You have been in addition to regulating state aid for the rehabilitation of the banking system, where the matter has been coordinated, and now you are clearly in addition to state aid for suppliers who have either several times the price of medical material as well as in developed countries. Finally, at the Ministry of Finance, if I am not mistaken, you have a special sector for State aid control, so you will be the right address to answer this question. I'm also interested in the following: Are you going to cover the losses of private hospitals that will or would report a loss from the same address as the hospitals of public health care? If you don't, isn't that direct proof that this is state aid? If I remember correctly, we had a hearing discussion whether you would hope for Mr Erjavac to say no when he comes in with his request. You obviously didn't dare say anything in this case to the weakest member of this government, the health minister. How can I trust you, as finance ministers, that you are the guardian of the Treasury? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the word and thank you very much for asking the question. First, let's get some facts straight. The draft law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions does not provide for payment to suppliers, but allocates additional funds to public hospitals on the basis of the fact that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is the founder of these public institutions. The Act on Institutions already obliges us to act, which specifies that the founder is obliged to cover the obligations arising from the surplus of expenditure on revenue. We have examined the issue of State aid and the situation is quite different from that of the business banks to which you refer. In accordance with the examination of the case and the applicable rules on the granting of State aid, we have found that the provision of additional funds to public hospitals, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, does not constitute a State aid measure. It is not about providing additional funds for the presence of these public institutions on the market, but it is about covering the expenditure on revenue arising from the provision of the public service. The matter has been verified in accordance with Slovenian and European legislation within the monitoring sector, not for monitoring, but for monitoring state aid, and this is an agreed and stable procedure within the European Commission. First check is done within the country. Of course, there is no problem and we are also prepared that if any of the beneficiaries launch any verification requirements at the level of the European Commission in order to do so. The solution, as proposed in the bill, is also adopted by taking into account public financial responsibility; not me as an individual minister, but as a whole. Over the past years, the loss of public hospitals belonging to the state sector has increased the deficit that we have shown in fact after the so-called ESA 2010 methodology or earlier, 2007. And the scope of the additional resources provided by the intervention law does not exceed the total amount of losses that we have recognised or implemented as deficits in previous years. As a result, the proposed level of funding for public health institutions does not affect the result in respect of the fiscal rules of the public financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia and does not jeopardise the objectives set by us in terms of fiscal consolidation for this year and for the following years within the framework of the Government and the Ministry of Finance. Of course, we must not view this law as an isolated, individual measure, but only in the context of all the measures already put forward in the National Assembly – I think that you are going to discuss them all day tomorrow – as well as the measures already announced and in the coordination phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar, are you requesting a supplement to your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u147	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have therefore confirmed that you do not hope to tell the Minister of Health that you are, in fact, the weakest member of this government, even the weakest member of this government, you do not hope to say no; this means that you are automatically becoming the weakest member of this government. What you have answered to my question, which I have asked, testifies that you have not verified compliance with Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. By the way, look what you said. That you're obliged to do this because of the Departments Act. So answer me: Is the Law on Institutions over Institutional Acts of the EU? Then you said, "We have found out, we have studied". You, not the one who's judging in the end! So, you yourself, or on your behalf, the Minister of Health. And you further confirmed that according to the legislation is the first control within the country. So, not even talks with the European Commission, but within the country. So, Miro Cerar, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, you've decided to take away 136 million euros for the payment of suppliers, and you said yes. I'm sorry. I'm worried about the stability of public finances in such a financial minister. Consider the case of Elan — State aid. It takes two years to come to a final decision. And this was also likely the reason that you agreed, as the result of this decision would eventually fall to the next government — the return of state aid. Then you, I don't know, will still, you won't, depending on the election result. My question is: Are you here to make a public statement that this is not a state aid issue, and if the decision is taken and the decision is taken before the end of the Cerara government or not a decision, the first sign that it is a state aid issue, I will immediately step down and take responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u149	Article 107 of the Treaty refers to State aid provided for in the implementation of market activities. The examples cited by you, Elan, banks, are examples of entities operating on the market and subject to State aid rules. If we are talking about public health institutions whose task is to carry out the public service, and if we are talking about providing them with funds to cover the excess of public service expenditure, then it is for entities that do not comply with the State aid rules. And to ask about this to the European Commission is about as much as to ask about something that is obvious, someone who is not competent to discuss the matter at all. For this reason, I say that the proposed solution does not constitute State aid and I have explained to you that we have also carried out the necessary verifications in accordance with the prescribed procedures. Don't you dare say no. You know, this year I learned that it's not the advantage of a good policy to say no to someone, but to find a solution, that you don't have to say no. We have also done so in this particular case; responsible and consistent with what our marriage obligations are, and in accordance with the responsibility of the patients, not least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u151	Thank you. Look, I think we need to discuss this at the National Assembly. So in one year, the minister learned not to say no, but to find a solution, not to say no. This solution does not have to be said no, in this case it costs EUR 136 million and patients will have none of it and taxpayers will pay. I would like to know how many such levers the Minister of Finance will learn at this time not to say no, but to open up our taxpayer money, so that those who charge us too high prices at our expense will eventually be paid well. And once again, she stressed that there was no coordination with the European Commission and that, after all, she did not even know whether it was State aid or not, which was extremely irresponsible of taxpayers. It has already been announced in the media that they will complain about this decision to appeal to the European Commission. The European Commission will decide on this. And the Law on Institutions, I'm sorry, is not above the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I hope to say that this is State aid, it is almost evident state aid, which places private and public hospitals in an unequal situation, and especially incapacitated public administrations, which will now at the same time be the custodians of these mistakes, which they themselves have committed. The only one who will benefit or benefit from this is the private provider of expensive medical equipment, stents, or other medical devices. This way to know what to say or not to please — forgive me, it is an irresponsible policy toward taxpayers. I think that the National Assembly should hold a debate before this intervention law is passed because it is very harmful within the next two years for all of us taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u152	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. We continue with Mr Jožef Horvat's question, addressed to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u153	That's right. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen! In February 2015, the European Commission presented a strategy to establish a solid energy union. Free cross-border energy flows are the fifth freedom of the internal market of the European Union. On 6 October last year, the Slovenian Government approved the long-term strategic plan of operations of Eles, d.o.o., for the period 2016-2020. I found it on the same company's website. The plan lists the construction of two hundred kilovolts of Circovce-Pince worth about 220 million euros among the most important investments. The planned pipeline of the Circowce–Pince is expected to be a good 80 km long and will have 263 pillars. Two kilometers away, or two pillars, are passed through the Croatian cadastral region, between the villages of Hotiz and Kapca. This, of course, raises and presents a problem in issuing a uniform, I stress, single building permit. Slovenia has already signed an annex to the contract with its neighbouring Hungary with the envisaged deadline for including further updates by the end of 2018. The Hungarian operator had long built a remote line to Pinc. Since 18 months are foreseen for the construction of the long - distance project, construction should be started by now, but we do not have a building permit. So it hasn't been released yet. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: At what stage is the building permit issued? How does the issuing of the building permit affect the judgment of the arbitral tribunal establishing the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia and the two countries are bound to enforce this decision of the arbitral tribunal? So the question is: Are we going to build and integrate the Circovce–Pince pipeline into the system by the end of 2018, which, finally, we have committed ourselves to a contract with neighbouring Hungary? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u154	Minister of Environment and Space Mrs. Irena Majcen, please have time to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u155	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr Joseph Horvath, thank you for the question. The question is complex, as you, of course, mentioned in this introduction. For the Ministry of Environment and Space, I must say that the decision of the arbitral tribunal for the border with Croatia will be taken into account in all administrative matters which can be taken into account at the Ministry of Environment and Space, of course. It is true, however, that it is right for the Cirkovce-Pince transmission system to be in the process – the investor acquires an environmental consensus. Oral treatment has already been carried out; such comments have been made at the oral hearing of persons wishing to participate in the procedure, and the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia has further questions. It was envisaged that the investor’s response report would be prepared but requested an extension and this deadline is now 1. Ten. I am not sure if he will be able to respond to the oral comments within this time limit, or if he will still request an extension, which means that there are several complications in obtaining a prior procedure before the building permit. There is no application for a building permit issued at the Ministry of Environment and Space and unfortunately there is no information on when the investor will deliver the relevant documents. The investor is Elos, d. o. o., and in terms of content it is of course an organisation that does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is, not only in this matter, but quite a few open procedures with similar content, that is, by obtaining a building permit at this time and all these procedures are, of course, still in a phase of uncertainty. So much for initial information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u156	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for now. The issues are now quite clear on the ground; the route will probably have to be changed because it cannot cross the Croatian cadastral or once the border is fixed when we – I hope – agree once – and it is probably impossible to expect Croatia to agree that Croatia would allow this route of this long distance, two times 400 kilovolts, to run across Croatian territory. That probably won't be possible. So, the only solution is to change the route, to bend, to avoid the Croatian disaster, which of course means that the pipeline would go through the settlement of Gaber. This, of course, is not acceptable because it will be simple – and already – for the villagers to protest. Here I simply cannot find, Madam Minister, the answer to the question why an investor does not accept another technological or technical solution, which is very simple, this is laying underground cables. Up to 400 kilovolts, that's no problem, and I don't know why he just doesn't listen to people. On the other hand, we also have a contract with Hungary, which, of course, I have not seen, but in this treaty, I know that, as the Republic of Slovenia, we have committed ourselves to allow the long-distance connection by the end of 2018. And once again, if we want to realize this contractual commitment, the construction should be under way by now. And you said what it was like to get a building permit. So: What kind of solutions are they looking for now? If you have this information, of course, in terms of taking into account the interests of the people around you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u158	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you. I have already heard you say in the first part of the answer that energy is within the competence of the second department and our ministry or I am not actively involved in the search for these solutions so that I can answer your question. It is true that I am involved in the search for solutions whenever there are problems on the ground and it is somehow seen that the solution could be sought, but then the very implementation of these other solutions depends, of course, on the investor. Unfortunately, Mr Joseph Horvat, I don't know about this part of the question because of my competence and I can't answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u160	Mr Jožef Horvat, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on this subject at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would really like to take advantage of this business opportunity that you mentioned. It's an extremely important energy facility. It is also about the realization of our common European commitment, because we are and we want to become part of the European Energy Union, which, as I said in the first place, represents a fifth freedom in the internal market of the European Union. We must provide our citizens with a constant stable supply of energy, both of which are different, of course, even or also to our economy. When I was first elected in 2004, maybe two months after the elections of Slovenia or, rather, the Moorish MPs got to us with the Hungarian MPs, who then – that was years ago, or not – presented the route of their long journey to Pink. As we know, as I said, this Hungarian wire to Pink was built. Like I said, there's a signed annex to the contract. And here I see that Slovenia can have a problem if it does not implement this infrastructure project. It's true, we were all kind of waiting for an arbitral tribunal to decide. This has stalled for known reasons, but now, this moment and 29 June, the matter has become crystal clear as to the state border between Slovenia and Croatia. That is why I think, colleagues and colleagues, it would be good to have a debate on this, about 120 million-strong energy investment, which has already been asked a number of questions, but now the country must have a very clear plan on how to set up a new route or with a new technique, specifically an underground cable, to implement this project. There's not much time. As it is said, the construction workers need about 18 months for these 80 kilometers away, and the Hungarian Treaty requires us to do so, and the state insists that our investment should be completed by the end of the following year. So tomorrow or yesterday, construction should start. This is an extremely important investment energy project and, of course, we will also include the Ministry of Infrastructure in this debate, and I expect that at the end of the debate we will come to some conclusions, some solutions that are vital to our population and our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u162	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. 9, in the framework of the votes. We continue with Mr Bojan Podkrodška's question, namely, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Mr. Underpants, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u163	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question will focus on the field of work in the Republic of Slovenia. I am thinking about the employment of foreign labour coming from third countries, especially work permits. In the construction sector in Slovenia, of course, there is a great demand for foreign labour. My question, Madam Minister, relates to the area of those entrepreneurs who are foreigners, but they have companies with us and they employ foreign labour. Of course, in the first year, the fact that he has to have a full-time employee, which is eight hours, when he comes in the second year, happens to hire them for shorter hours, that is for four or two hours. Our companies can say that this area is being scrutinized with regard to inspection services. They have no problems, of course, even our companies; if matters are settled, they are proper inspectors, but of course they are not in the same position. The one who employs someone for two or four hours a day, of course, when the construction inspector comes to the construction site, that worker can tell that he's come maybe half an hour early to work. That is why I am addressing you with this question of how this legislation is: Does this legislation allow or violate it? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u164	The Minister, Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u165	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Member of the Commission, thank you for the question, but I would like to remind you that you have sent me a question in order to ask me about the exercise of control over labour legislation. If you think that I can know about each individual case and then make an assessment, I regret to tell you that I am very difficult to do and that this is the responsibility of the inspectorate, but I can give you the powers under the law of the Inspection of the Republic of Slovenia for work. In your question, you mentioned entrepreneurs who are foreigners and have businesses with us and then they hire, I don't know if Slovenians or foreigners and work for a shorter working time. I'm afraid I didn't understand where the key to the problem was from your question. You stated that the problem is that they are employed for shorter working hours and are therefore in a different position than other companies. It is difficult for me to give an assessment here, because all companies established in the Republic of Slovenia can also have employees for shorter working hours, in accordance with the law. It's so very hard to explain what the problem is. The fact is that, in accordance with our legislation, under the Labour Relations Act, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and others in particular. By what methods or by what legal basis does the inspectorate operate? These are mainly the Labour Inspection Act, the Law on the Implementation of Inspection; the Basic Law is the Act on the Implementation of Inspection Control, which you will also complement Members and Members on Thursday with two important elements when you consider amendments to this Act. However, if the procedures are not defined, the ZUP shall apply, i.e. the general administrative procedure under which they are supervised. Then there are a number of other legal acts governing the issue of work permits. Do foreigners, or third-country nationals, have a basis for working in the Republic of Slovenia? This is in line with the Foreign Labour Act, and then we also have international legal acts laying down how services in the internal market can be carried out and in this way all entities within the European Union must be in the same position. It is not possible to change the conditions on the basis of nationality or on the other hand, but all have equal conditions. In short, it is a complex wide area, I would like to answer you, if you could give me where the case is, it is especially best to turn to an inspection, which in accordance with the law also does control. However, the fact is that all legal entities must comply with the law, the legal basis, is also numerous in this area. The legal order of the European Union also regulates this. However, if anything is wrong, it is absolutely necessary to apply for inspection and the inspection will, in accordance with its powers, exercise control and then also has certain measures under the law, where, under the Law on Offences, it may, of course, also file a criminal complaint or make an optional prohibition decision within its powers, it may issue a short sanction, in accordance with the Code and the Inspection Act. [[…]] I'm sorry I can't help you no matter what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u166	Mr Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u167	Dear Minister, thank you for your efforts! I certainly agree with you that this is a very broad area. Perhaps to make it easier for you to understand, I was on an administrative unit in Slovenia, where I was told that three employees work on foreigners who come to Slovenia every day. They also told me that foreigners who come for this tent, if I call it, do not know the word Slovenian, but know all the legislation; all that belongs to them when they cross the border of the Republic of Slovenia. My question, if I explain it again – I hope that we will understand – does not now put me in the role of a police officer, or an inspector, or one who walks through construction sites, this area has been highlighted to me by Slovenian companies. There's a lot of construction where there's more than one company working. And when the work inspector arrives, he examines all the employees of each entrepreneur, finds that they are employed in Slovenia for eight hours, an entrepreneur who comes from a foreign country and has employed foreign nationals and has registered them for two or four hours. That's why I'm asking: Does the legislation allow that? I don't see the point of us importing the workforce. I agree with the need for this workforce, but it is not logical for us to employ it for four hours or two. Dear Minister, I think it's clear to both of you why this is happening: to bypass even this financial flow, that it's probably a little easier. It is very difficult then for our entrepreneur, a Slovenian citizen, to compete with such a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u168	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please, he has that word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u169	Since you have started with administrative units, it is true that foreigners first report to the administrative unit because they have introduced a single application for a work permit and residence. This is now in a single permit, because for people in particular it is much easier and faster to issue only, that is to say, a link to a residence permit with the granting of a work permit with us. Of course, it is still behind when it comes to third-country nationals, the verification of the situation on the labour market and, as a rule, or it cannot be authorised to work for those where in the Republic of Slovenia it is sufficiently registered in our home register for the unemployed, then the Office of the Republic of Slovenia that does this rejects it. As regards how in constructions It is essential that the work permit issued is issued for the worker concerned and for the working time specified in the application itself. [[…]] So if it's a role or, for example, that a worker works for more people, of course, it can also work for shorter working hours. I agree that more difficult supervision in the implementation of the overtime work is, in principle, very difficult for inspectors to monitor how much of the actual working time an individual worker spends in the workplace, wherever that is, there is more of this in the workplace. As a result, however, these working time records and sanctions in this area are more necessary. I think we have 43 working inspectors, but now you are imagining all the parts and all the legal entities – it is very difficult to control them in our country, so it is crucial to ensure a higher culture as well. In any event, however, if an infringement is found or if the offence is suspected, an anonymous application may also have to be made, as this method is then followed by inspectors going there and checking. If you know where this is happening, I suggest you can also report anonymously to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and they will carry out this control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u170	Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc's question to the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u171	Dear President, thank you for your word! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you the following question: When will you send to the National Assembly amendments and additions to the Health Act governing homeopathy and Slovenia will have comparable legislation with other countries of the European Union in the field of homeopathy and its control? It should be pointed out that already in 2014, the Slovenian Medical Chamber adopted a decision proposing to the Ministry of Health that the regulations should be amended so that doctors involved in homeopathic activities are not deprived of this licence alone. I am sure that this was a historic decision, with 40 votes in favour and 18 against. I want to know: When will you send to the National Assembly an amendment to the Health Act, which will allow those doctors who are treated with homeopathy to have the same conditions as the comparable countries of the European Union? Given that almost three years have passed since the conclusion of the Medical Chamber, I expect a rather specific response from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u172	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u173	Hello, Mr. Vice President! Dear Members, honourable Mr Mag. Marco Pogačnik! As you know, homeopathy is a healing system that can be implemented by healers and is now defined in the Medical Act. Homeopathy is generally defined in other countries of the European Union as a single integrated treatment system, but it is very clearly defined and has a clear structure and clear rules of action. Based on the proven principle of similar treatment in practice and on the testing of medicinal products on healthy volunteers. Our legislation states that homeopathy can only be done by those who have graduated from medical school, namely doctors. Homeopathy arrangements in EU countries are very different. In Austria, for example, it can only be carried out by doctors and only by special training provided by the Medical Chamber. At the Ministry of Finance, we are aware of the importance of regulating this area, which is why we have included this in our National Health Programme 2016-2025, Together for the Society of Health. The national plan provides for a new proposal to be drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly in 2018. However, it should be said that the discussions on homeopathy in Slovenia were very long, that it took a very long time for the Medical Chamber to finally adopt the relevant conclusions related to homeopathy. This is why we have already established a working group at the Ministry, which is preparing a European comparable regulation, which will be broader and will provide complementary traditional and alternative forms of diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation, in which homeopathy will also be regulated. Let me say that this is a broad working group in which there are representatives of the Medical Chamber, representatives of the Medical Society, representatives of the Slovenian Homeopathic Society and representatives of the Integration Medicine Association. So, as you like to say, in fact, the profession is in this working group, which has reviewed all the solutions in Europe and has already prepared the starting points of the law. This law will be called the Act on Complementary Traditional and Alternative Forms of Diagnostics and Rehabilitation for Health Care, and this law will also fully regulate the area of homeopathy, by example, as it is regulated in other European countries, so that only doctors with additional knowledge and training from homeopathy can implement it. The starting points will be published on the Ministry's website this fall and a new comprehensive law will be drawn up to regulate this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u174	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u175	Dear President, thank you again! Dear Minister, this answer is another proof that I did not make a mistake last week when I voted in favour of your release. First of all, you're not here to explain what homeopathy is, but I specifically asked you when you're going to make a change to the Medicine Act. In the meantime, you mentioned that you were the Minister of Finance, that the Ministry of Finance said something. Maybe it's a lapsus, but that's one proof that you're probably one of the most confused ministers in this government. And, Madam Minister, I have given you the same question on 23 March 2016, and in this reply, Madam Secretary-General, you said that this will be settled in 2017. And you said the same thing, the task force already has everything ready, but it's only time for consciousness to be transmitted to the National Assembly. What you changed in this response is that you changed your anniversary today, that you said it would be in 2018. Look, Mr Možina, President of the Medical Chamber, he said that legislation can be arranged in one afternoon. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u176	Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u177	Thank you for your word and the complementary answer. The National Assembly adopted a strategic document which accurately describes the Ministry's tasks, activities, priorities and when the law will be ready. What I have said is written that this will happen in 2018. And this same Medical Chamber, I'm sorry, and its representatives and the Medical Society and all of those I mentioned, have, of course, changed the concept in the working group. You simply say, or the previous president of the Medical Chamber, that it is a matter of one week. Yeah, well, unfortunately, it's not a one-week thing, because the whole area's out of order. However, it might be good to ask how many years it took the Medical Chamber to reach this conclusion, I think it was December, after many discussions, that it then found that homeopathy also needed to be systematically regulated. And it was this working group where the representatives of the Medical Chamber, the Medical Society, the Association for Integral Medicine, the Homeopathic Society found that simple amendments to the Health Act could not be regulated. As a result, it has drawn up a starting point where this whole area will be covered; I have already said what this law will be called, the starting points will be published in a short time, which have been harmonised within this group and within the ministry and will give an opportunity for a wider public debate and for all actors to make comments and a law will be drawn up on this basis. However, this was never the first priority of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u178	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a public debate be held on this subject. First of all, Madam Secretary, you are here to answer to Members of Parliament and Members without teaching us. Now I will read you your reply from 2016, 23. 3: "In accordance with our resolution and priorities, the adoption of this law will be foreseen for 2017 in accordance with this plan." Those were your words. We are now at the end of 2017 and this is not and you are referring to, I would say, I do not know what working groups you mentioned already in March 2016. You also welcomed at the 4th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 26 January 2015 the proposal of the Assembly of the Medical Chamber to amend the relevant legislation so that just doing homeopathic activity would not be the reason for the withdrawal of a doctor’s license. And you have also announced that the Ministry will take into account the proposal of the Chamber and prepare amendments. From this conclusion, the Chamber has been in office for about three years and you have done nothing yet. In my view, however, it would therefore be necessary to amend only three paragraphs or three articles of the Health Act in order to delete the second paragraph of Article 34 and to delete the fourth paragraph of Article 37 and to delete point 5 of Article 81. This means that three articles are necessary for an amendment. And you need to do that now, according to your conduct, your esteemed minister, for four years. Now you have said here that this will be changed. Read some magnetogram back. You told 130 employees at the time that they were dealing with this area and you couldn't do it. And here the President of the Medical Chamber says that this change can be made in one afternoon. But you need now, according to you, four years. Consider that there will be no further interpolation, as I do not rule out that by the end of your term of office you will be interpolated here once again. For it is evident, dear Minister, that you do not do your work. I'm sure you don't believe yourself anymore, because on all these statements, when we can read them from the tape, I'd say you don't know what your left does, what your right hand does.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u180	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. 9, in the framework of the votes. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Finance of the Magi a question. Mateji Vraničar Erman and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u181	Thank you for your word and your regards to everyone. As the president said, this is a common issue between the two ministries. But I'm gonna ask about the Adria Airways Tech case. This is one of those unfortunate 15 companies on the quick privatisation list in 2013, and the company was sold to a Polish company. The story is particularly sad because Adria Airways Technika used to be one of the most motivated collectives in Slovenia. Before the sale, workers even made an offer, 4.5 million, for labour acquisition, but at that time the SDH administration preferred to sell the company for 100 000 euros more to the Polish acquirer, who now treats the company as a fur pig. He's exhausted, he's bullying employees, he's firing, he's hiring agency workers, he's canceling a collective agreement. In short, anything that left Members can and have been alerted to at that time went wrong. That's why my question is for both ministries, or if I go in line, the following. First of all, I want to know: Is the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs aware of the case and how it will take action to terminate the collective agreement, bully the rights of employees and so on? Will you request a review of this sale? If I can get some groundwork. In the purchase contract, according to the information received by members of the Left at the time, among other things, it was stipulated that the collective agreement should remain and should be respected even after the company was sold. Through the old company director, the new owner cancelled the collective contract and treated the employees as described last time in the article Youth, directly intimidating. For example, a workman who once came to work at 6:25, but could not have received a notice until 6:30, received a notice prior to his dismissal. Another employee who said at one of the staff meetings that the promises of the board were a lie, which is justified, was instructed to send an apology to all the e-mails and the billboard, otherwise he will be fired. For one word! I'm so curious, Madam Minister of Finance: Will you request a review of this sale and see if the social clauses to be adopted are respected?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u182	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. With this particular example of the privatisation of Adrié Airways Technik, we have dealt with or have dealt with many times in the National Assembly, at least at the Ministry of Finance we have already prepared one oral and three written answers, so I will not go into detail again so that I do not spend too much time. Secondly, the privatisation itself took place between January 2014 and November 2015, i.e. the majority of the sales procedure was carried out prior to the implementation of the strategy, but the SDH administration respected or included in the sales procedure the possibility of buying-in by employees, but it is obliged to respect the competitive procedure and decide in accordance with all the clauses or all the circumstances identified in the procedure itself. For the reasons given in your question, which might justify the review of sales so far, there is no specific information on the Government for which I ask you to provide them, and of course we will examine all possible options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u184	Minister of Labour Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, thank you, Mr Luka Mesec, for the question. I'm not familiar with the exact case you asked me. However, in the context of the question you have asked, we have asked the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for a job which is responsible for supervision in these cases. In short, the inspectorate gave me an answer that three reviews have been carried out with this employer, Adria Airways Techniki, since 2015. The issue referred to above was primarily to supervision of the termination of the employment contract, where the inspectorate is solely responsible for verifying the cancellation procedures, i.e. the legality of the termination of the employment contract, the legality of the termination itself being assessed by the court alone. The inspectorate did not then find any irregularities in respect of the cancellation procedures under its jurisdiction. Otherwise, the inspectorate at the employer found irregularities in late payment, i.e. late payment of wages, and irregularities in payment of contributions after compensation under the Parental Protection Act and family benefits, which led to the employer’s being given a warning under the Offences Act. He also found irregularities in the provision of safety and health at work, which led him to order the employer to remedy the irregularities found and also to warn him about the offences in the minutes. All proceedings with the employer have not yet been completed. So, the fact is that this company is overseen by the inspectorate that they are in the company itself. I would also like to point out here that, of course, workers apply to the inspectorate and, on the other hand, workers are entitled to judicial protection. I would also point out that as far as the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management is concerned, of course, regardless of this change of owner, all the provisions of the law still apply and therefore workers must be aware of all the status issues. If this was not the case in time, in fact, as indicated by the fact that they were not aware of the status change, this would also constitute an infringement. Basically, I note that the problem of infringement of workers' rights in the Republic of Slovenia is still too often so, regardless of who owns it, it is still, on the basis of the fact that this week or next week you will have a report on the home committee, unfortunately there are still too many abuses and violations concerning the wide range of labour rights. [[…]] Within this too, I think it is necessary to strengthen the Republic of Slovenia's Labour Inspectorate, because unfortunately I find that we are not successful in the additional quota for the employment of inspectors of the Republic of Slovenia for work, regardless of the fact that there are conclusions of such a parent committee of the National Assembly, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman - in fact all institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u186	Mr Luka Moon, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. I'd like to answer Mrs. Vranič Erman first. The strategy states, although you say it was adopted later, but we must follow it, that the new owner, after taking over the company that was formerly state-owned, must respect collective agreements, maintain the standard of employment and jobs. Like I said, there's been a violation of all the provisions here. The collective agreement has been cancelled; workers are forgiven for purely bizarre reasons. The collective is introduced by bullying union trustees, those who have proposed a labor buyout that they have been fired and so on, total discontent and replaces workers with agency workers. So all the alarms are ringing. And not just for a working group, they ring mainly for all of us who ride planes. One of the employees invited himself to the management of the company as follows: "I am afraid that something will happen. [[…]] Someone's gonna miss something and it's gonna be a disaster. We're working in the air force, for God's sake! We don't fix lawn mowers." That is why we should act! Not just because it was a state company, but because it was employees and security. So once again I ask you, Mrs. Vraničar Erman: Will you request a review of sales and see if all the clauses that are supposed to have been taken into account which have been entered into the purchase contract have been taken into account, and how will you react? For you, Mrs. Dark, the same goes for you. Now, you have received a report from the inspectorate you presented, but in Levica we have long warned that much more needs to be done. Here, as you can see, it is the intentional collapse of the working group, but at the same time, it imports an unsymbolized workforce through various agencies and should therefore be taken into account, inter alia, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Okay, I'm running out of time. I'll be in touch. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, please, you have the floor. Mag. Varying Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u189	Thank you very much again for your word. We cannot ask anyone to take into account in their conduct an act that has been adopted later, after the whole process has in fact been practically completed. I have already said that, despite the fact that the strategy was adopted later, the basic strategies for the application of labour rights have also been taken into account in the specific sales procedure. As far as the number of employees is concerned. The company’s public annual reports show that indeed the number of employees in 2014 has decreased due to a decrease in the company’s operating volume, and in 2015, 209 people were employed in society, while the number of employees employed increased by 37%. The mere fact of hiring the labour force does not in itself constitute an infringement. It is one of the possible forms of employment that Slovenian legislation allows. In 2016, after the company had already been privatised, the number of employees and also hired workers increased slightly; in each segment of four workers. As far as the audit is concerned. The Ministry of Finance does not have direct powers to revise individual sales transactions. Of course, we have general supervisory powers in relation to SDH, but in order to trigger them, we need specific data and specific applications. Whether we initiate an audit or not, we will be able to make decisions in accordance with our competences after we can also examine specific data, but not on the basis of newspaper articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u190	Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u191	The question was probably raised, as the minister said, from the point of view of agency workers in the company you are mentioning. In this place, I would just like to say one thing very clearly because it forgets and interferes that where it is a business that is not registered and is a violation. In fact, if the Agency’s work is declared and all the protected provisions are, as they must be, Agency workers must have the same position and ensure the same rights in the company as other workers employed in the same company. This was agreed in the National Assembly with amendments to both the Labour Relations Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act. The key problem that we have on the market today is, above all, that it is still an intervention by unregistered companies where, in fact, there are no reported bank guarantees and all these guarantors. That's the key problem. While agency workers, when we see if then control comes, are also determined whether they have the same rights as these [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Moon, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u193	Thank you. Mrs Vraničnik Erman, I have provided you with specific information for which we should initiate the audit. In fact, despite a different promise, when the company was sold, which was also supposed to be in the sales contract – you saw it – I will demand to see it – it is written that the acquirer will respect the collective agreement even after taking over. Now it is clear that the collective agreement has been cancelled and that it is bullying, firing, and hiring agency workers from abroad. I think that this is a violation that you could or should check in accordance with Article 69 of the SDH Act; but to see what social promises the takeover has made and how they are now being followed. In the National Assembly, however, I will suggest that we discuss this case, not just because of the case of Adria Airways Technology, which is spoken of, perhaps that the country has received a good EUR 2 million when it is sold. Last year, before the depreciation, the company had a total of EUR 3 million in profits, and the employees were not paid even Christmas. Here you can see how foreign takers, in this case the Polish Capital Fund, are draining once a state-owned company and how our money is leaking abroad. Another issue I would like to discuss in the National Assembly is labour legislation. Maybe there's just one more matter here with regard to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The agencies now arriving in Adrio Airways Techniko are foreign, Bulgarian, Croatian and so on. Until now, these agencies had to have an open branch in Slovenia. Following the amendment of the Labour Market Regulation Act, this condition is deleted. Therefore, foreign agencies will be easier to operate in Slovenia, while at the same time it will be harder to sanction them. And after that responsibility, I asked the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. These are two topics I would like to discuss and I propose that we open a debate in the National Assembly on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u194	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. 9, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the question of the Magi. Bojane Muršič, Minister of Health, I apologize, education, science and sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, who is excusedly absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I ask the distinguished Minister, Dr Majo Makovec Brenčič, about the right of pupils to free transport. Since the Minister is not here, I want her oral response to the next regular session. Article 56, paragraph 1, of the Basic School Act clearly states, and I quote: “The student has the right to free transport if his residence is more than four kilometres from the primary school.” I'll point it out, four kilometers. This provision has indeed been written in the law for more than 20 years, but a simple calculation clearly tells us that an average student needs more than an hour of walking for so long. It's said to go four kilometers, an hour. In the light of this fact, I am interested in: Minister, do you really think this provision in law is right and right and just? True, in 20 years traffic safety has changed a lot; some have changed for the worse, some for the better. The latter is also reflected in the tremendous increase in the use of personal and other vehicles and, as a result, also in the heavy burden of roads and the increased traffic risks of our children. At the same time, it is not possible to overlook the school bags that our students carry, and from year to year, they become heavier, and the weight of these bags is also about 10 kilograms. Of course, children are increasingly playful and irresponsible on their way to school, but this must not be our excuse. The safety of children must be first, since sidewalks are not guaranteed a safe school trip and the burden is immeasurable. Are these facts still supported by the arguments on the basis of which this provision was made in the law? Last but not least, I would like to point out that a public servant is granted compensation for travel costs if he is more than two kilometres away from the job. To a public servant two kilometers and to a child more than four kilometers [4 km] — which is half less than for our greatest wealth, children. I think that this is wrong, so the change in the law would be necessary, and I believe that parents as well as we Members and everyone responsible for the safety of children in road transport will be able to do so. I expect your answer at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We continue with the question of the Magi. Mr Andrej Širclja, addressed to the Minister of Finance of Mag. Matthew the Vranic Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Respectable magus. He's Erman Matei's concierge! Look, I am asking some questions about the funding of the congregations, which we have already discussed many times in the National Assembly, and you have already said many times, until when and how anything will be settled, but it is not yet yet. I ask you, as Minister of Finance, not Minister for Local Self-Government, because the Ministry of Finance always makes a specific provision in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, where it tells you what is appropriate to spend on the financing of municipalities, and the Ministry of Labour of the Analysis on this and the Ministry negotiates for finance, is the chief negotiator for municipalities with the Community of Municipalities, the union of municipal municipalities and so on and so on. This has been happening in the National Assembly for several years now that you have been Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and, of course, all the more so, now that you are Minister of Finance. The Court of Auditors notes that nothing is regulated, the Court of Auditors finds that the appropriate consumption of municipalities is not satisfactory and requires the Ministry of Finance and also the other Ministry, corrective measures and so on and so on. However, we all know that people, citizens and citizens satisfy their interests most in the municipalities and that, under the Law on the Financing of the Communities, we have a so-called average of just over 600 euros. In the Budget Implementation Act, however, you and always the Ministry of Finance give a lower average of 100 euros. I want to know: When will you resolve this issue? After three or four years, you actually didn't. In fact, you are not, and this is what the Court of Auditors is actually talking about. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u198	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u199	Thank you so much for asking me that question. Let me first touch on the question of jurisdiction. The draft law on the implementation of the budget is proposed by the Government to the National Assembly. Negotiations with municipalities on the level of the average for each year not only at a time when I, in fact, act as State Secretary or Minister, but also earlier, have always been coordinated and coordinated with the competent associations of municipalities, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration. In recent years, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is responsible for the second segment of the important funding of municipalities, has also attracted the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology as a third member in the negotiations, this is for investment transfers under Article 21 of the Community Financing Act. The fact is that the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which was adopted during the pre-crisis period, has set a fairly fixed commitment to municipal budgets and has failed to take into account the possibility of a macro-economic situation which prevents the full provision of all funds for the financing of municipalities, as set out in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. To this end, the possibility is established for the average to be determined each year by the Budget Implementation Act, which is particularly important when there is no agreement with the municipalities. The Constitutional Court, which has repeatedly assessed the constitutionality of such regulation of the average in recent years, has confirmed that municipalities must also bear their share of the burden of public financial consolidation. With regard to the Court of Auditors' report on the determination of the average received prior to the summer holidays this year, we have already prepared a new regulation on sub-programmes included in the calculation of the average, to the maximum extent possible, to be aligned with the associations of municipalities and with the ministries of interest, and it was also published as a new regulation last week. Also at this meeting, the National Assembly is beginning its consideration of the amended Law on Community Financing, which will also regulate by law how the public financial situation and the need for fiscal consolidation are regulated and, last but not least, the Law on Fiscal Rules is taken into account in providing finance for municipalities. You also have this law in the process, and I expect it to address the questions you have raised accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u200	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u201	Dear Vice-President, I have not received an answer at all; I have received statements from some of the acts which have been sent to the National Assembly, especially here I am thinking about the law that is supposed to regulate it. This law was made by the Ministry responsible for local self-government. Look, it doesn't mean anything. The Minister of Finance always negotiates with representatives of the municipalities and never negotiates. This was also said by the representatives of the municipalities at the last meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, when they did not negotiate on the same day. This is just a question of whether the Ministry will once again take into account what the basic law says and say to the government that the Ministry of Finance is not the one that proposes all these things, but that this is the Government Yes, what, but is the Ministry of Finance outside the government? Is that another government? Or isn't he even a government? Isn't it, or does it have any weight at all? This is how the President of the Government has been telling you, including macroeconomic starting points and macroeconomic issues, for some time now, for several months, for years now, how everything is going great, how we have economic growth and so on, but this is not what citizens and citizens in the municipalities feel. [[…]] They can't feel it. These macroeconomic data, cited by the President of the Government, are virtual. People don't feel that way. Because if people got better services, more services from congregations, they'd feel it in their pocket, but they don't get it because you don't give them what actually belongs to them. Once again, I want to know: When will they receive what is theirs under the basic law, according to the Law on the Financing of the Congregations?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u202	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Once again, as regards the key recommendation or corrective action requested from the Ministry of Finance by the Court of Auditors, I have explained to you that we have implemented and published a new regulation concerning sub-programmes which are included in the calculation of the average. [[…]] I have also said, and I insist that the municipalities are an integral part of the state sector and the Fiscal Rule Act, adopted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, also applies to municipalities, and in this context an average is also established each year. And they are also an integral part of these negotiations – and they have always been and must remain in the future – macroeconomic circumstances affecting the extent of the resources we provide from the state budget for the financing of municipalities. Of course, this part, which is provided through the average, is not the only source that the congregations have at their disposal. For about half of the global population, municipalities also have other resources that they use or use very effectively, taking into account dreary data for past years and even for this year. We are going towards the approximation of the actual average by law, the calculated amount of the average costs of public activities, and we will continue this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u204	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I propose, Madam Vice-President, that this response be discussed by the Minister of Finance in the National Assembly. Look, I don't know if there's any chance the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance would ever make a deal with the municipalities or with the representatives of the municipalities. I want to know when he was, and I need to know when there was any agreement. According to my behavior and in my memory, there hasn't been an agreement on this in years. There hasn't been an agreement on people for years. This government works at the expense of the people. And, of course, there are no more excuses for macroeconomic reasons and so on. This may have been in 2012 and 2013. It's not really happening today. And the minister speaks of the rule she has adopted, and I quote, "...was to a great extent coordinated." End of quote. Do you know what that means? That he was not in agreement with the congregations, the municipalities did not agree on this rule, and the municipalities did not negotiate and negotiate before one week or four days ago, last week, any agreement with the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. They weren't. They are not because the Ministry of Finance does not listen to the demands, the needs of the municipalities. It's been a couple of years. For several years now, at the expense of the people, because people get better services, better utilities, payment of kindergartens, other services in the municipalities. And I'm sorry, it's on people's account now. It's a fiscal rule. Look, we need to make priorities. Priorities should be made in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And are the priorities now virtual priorities or are the priorities of an investment that is also virtually going to cost a billion and a half and so on — like the second track — are people's priorities and people's lives and, of course, their quality of life? Now it seems that this government or this Ministry of Finance probably has other priorities than those people actually have. For this reason, I think it is essential that we discuss these priorities at the meeting when we consider the answer of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u206	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. 9, in the framework of the votes. We continue with Mr Mark Ferrug's question addressed to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Majo Makovec Brenčič, who is excused to be absent today. Mr. Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the four professional colleagues, the vice president, the minister and the four of us! I refer the question to our Maja, the Minister for Education. It is, however, a regulation of the conditions and conditions for the conduct of sports activities within educational processes in the municipality of Izola. This story dates back to about the year 2000, when the municipality of Izola, with the Ministry of Education, agreed to make a contribution to co-financing. The follow-up was then in the co-financing agreement in 2001, and then it was sort of split up that it didn't know what to do. In the final phase, the isolation local community offered the Ministry a hand to unite even, now not only two more – because there were earlier talks about the Izola High School and the Pietro Coppo High School, this is with the Italian language – but to even three schools to unite, the primary school of Vojka Šmuc is also called Vojka Šmuc, and thus would somehow get a circus of thousands of students at one gym, which would, of course, be the most rational, but also with regard to space and infrastructure, also because of the investment itself. Here I am somehow asking the competent ministry about this proposal. If I mention one so small interesting thing that Vojka Šmuc's elementary school in Isola was chosen or won in a video competition – sponsored by the same ministry – with the title "HudoGood Gymnasium" in June this year between 167 proposals, she was not chosen, she even won as the best video. The aim of the competition was to draw attention to the necessity of updating school gyms in Izola. I think the goal was more than achieved. Once again, I ask this question: What is the position of the Ministry in solving this problem in Isola? Thank you very much. Of course I'll try to get a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u208	A written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u209	Yeah, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u210	Good. Thank you very much. We continue with the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak, addressed to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u211	Thank you very much. However, there was an important consensus in Europe around 2010 when the European Parliament declared the so-called Day of Remembrance of Victims of Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes. At the same time, he adopted a special resolution condemning these regimes — coming in line, not afraid, in the second part of the issue — condemning all these regimes equally. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have a situation where all our republics, that is, all our Members, regardless of color, voted in favour of this resolution in the European Parliament. When we tried in the Slovenian Parliament twice this resolution, literally copied, accepted, confirmed, was the Slovenian left against. It was against, at the time, we heard a number of arguments, in particular a significant argument by the representatives of the SD, which was explained by Mr Potrč of that time, and he said that we and our client had all been crucified, in 1996 we condemned the previous system and we have nothing to do with it – Desus will be in the second part. But what I'm trying to say is that what's happening here in Parliament is happening to us – what? That we have festive speeches by the President of the National Assembly on various days. Like silver or something like that, which is right. However, to have some kind of festive talk for August 23rd, at the first session, this is in September, but it will happen if we ask for it separately and encourage it, otherwise it will not happen. I mean, this is a really interesting thing. Slovenia is playing a dirty role here, and I think Slovenia has also proved this year. On that date, on August 23rd, the Justice Ministers of the eight EU Member States, Estonia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and Slovakia adopted what? They have accepted and have therefore confirmed their participation in the establishment of the Council for the Investigation of the Crimes of the Communist Regimes. Slovenia, I stress, is the only European country that has not signed this. The only European country that has not signed this! Of course, I'm asking the Minister: Why such a decision – yours or the decision of the Government, I do not know whose decision it was – that Slovenia does not approach it? In fact, since we continue to play such an action, I will say, clowns, we are doing beautiful things in Europe and, of course, we are playing another role at home. So I ask for an explanation of the reasons why this happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u212	The word is from the Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Member, Dr. Gorenak! First of all, your question was an extensive comment in the first part about when there are some festive speeches, how about resolutions, respect for the day of memory and so on. I hope you didn't ask me this question because I have no influence on it. As for my position as Minister of Justice and as an individual to totalitarian regimes, to postwar beatings and to detect and condemn these, I have repeatedly responded to your fellow Member, Eva Irgle, and I think we are not so far apart. Now we're going on specific cases. You know, I'll just say one correction first. [[…]] Yesterday we became European champions. You listed the following countries: Estonia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and Slovakia and then three times stressed that Slovenia is the only European country that has not signed this. [[advertising from the hall]] No, you said, Slovenia is the only European country that has not signed this. This was signed by a number of countries. Why Slovenia or I personally did not decide to sign this, and we also talked about this with our Estonian colleague, quite frankly. In principle, we support such memories of the victims of totalitarian, authoritarian regimes, but we also need to know that it is an invitation to establish a Council platform to investigate the crimes of communist regimes. It is not a problem who is being investigated and what, but as a justice minister, I have a duty to intervene in the rule of law by establishing some parallel administrative structures with criminal justice objectives is not my idea of a democratic society, so much more so because some of the countries that have joined it have, of course, recently been criticised by different levels of interference with the rule of law. In addition, it is primarily a political association. I have a scepticism for such supranational political associations. You will of course say that personally, but the fact is that if you question the title that it is a political association, an initiative has been given by the association in which Dr. Milan Zver and Janez Janša currently sit on the board of trustees and Dr. Andrej Valič Zver on the executive board. It is primarily a political association and an initiative of one policy option in Europe. That we are not part of this at the Ministry of Justice and that we are not playing the dirty game, as you said, but the fact is, as you know, within the Ministry of Justice, that the Crimes Correction and Support Sector is working. This sector works well, I have even strengthened it in the meantime. Furthermore, the National Reconciliation Study Centre, whose operation is supported by several budgetary resources, also operates. I have not cut these funds in the last three years, I have never intervened in its structure, even though it is a budget that is larger than last year's funding for, say, the Centre for Education in Justice. And when I was aware that this meeting will nevertheless be attended by the representative of Slovenia within this study centre, which is a public institution established by the Government, this is, in our opinion, sufficient. Slovenia was present at this meeting and so much from my side. I would ask you not to spread this event; firstly, not by reducing the number of European countries to one fifth, and secondly by saying that the Ministry of Justice is playing a dirty game because there is no such political event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u214	So Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to answer [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u215	Thank you very much. It's expected, Mr. Secretary. He's aggressive, he's rude, he's rude. I'm not adding any more. Look, of course I said all the countries, but you know very well that Norway, Great Britain, Germany, and no one else, had communism. Then what will they sign? Of course, I had in mind the European countries that were at the time of socialism, i.e. communists, if you want. We can lock up here as much as we want. We've done a lot of singing, and we'll do it if we have to. Next, next thing. All European countries, and in particular Eastern European countries, formerly, have a national holiday marking on 23 August. Slovenia is the only one that does not and only Mrs Valič Zver attends such events in Europe. In Slovenia we meet – for example, the last example I saw from Maribor – a gentleman from Desus, for example, a lady from SD – joyfully explain the fight against totalitarianism, fascism and Nazism. But communism is forgotten, even though we all know that in the whole of World War II, Germany or Italy did not die as many Slovenians died after World War II by the Communist regime. We all know that. And we all forget that and we all pretend to be blind. What you're saying, Minister, is around the center run by Mrs. Valič Zverov, well, thank God we still have him! After all, one former government, this is Mr Pahor's government, wanted to end it, so that it did not direct funds for wages; in fact, it was the government that did not make me feel guilty, Mrs Bratuškova, that we were more precise. The clear story is that if all Eastern European countries had signed this, it would be a moral duty for the Republic of Slovenia to sign this too. Otherwise, I don't expect any answer, because what you're saying is as clear as day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u216	Despite different views, I would still ask you for a measure of respect for everyone. Mag. Klemenčič – so yes, you marked Mr Klemenčič with an omen, if I understood exactly when you started. That's why I'm asking you to be respectful. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u217	Thank you very much. You said I was performing, and you said I was expected, and so on and so forth. But dear Dr. Gorenak, not over my back to be a cultural struggle, please. Again, you've extended the matter to whoever didn't pay the above-mentioned center. I've got 'em. [[…]] No, look, you can't throw everything in the same basket. That's the first thing. The other thing, the truth or the facts are not your ally. At first they were all European countries, now you said you thought and twice or three times you stressed that you meant all Eastern European countries. That's not true either. Not all Eastern European countries have signed this, not all Eastern European EU members have signed this. Not now, but Bulgaria, Romania and so on. Say it, please! What else can I say? In fact, you had a comment that could be legitimate about what should and should not be marked. When I resisted that I was responsible for this or that we were negative, we were ugliness, and Europe was getting a little bigger and a little smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u218	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor to request [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u219	Yes, Vice President, listen to what the Minister is saying before you warn me. So we're in the clear. Look, I propose, of course, a debate in the National Assembly. The reasons are obvious and clear. Slovenian Left Policy – not only do I think of the Minister here, but he is one of the ministers who is in this function at the time, but I think of Slovenian Left Policy – he plays a double role; in Europe, there is one face which is called "we are equal to all totalitarianism" et cetera, but when they come home, that is no longer the case. That's one of the reasons. Another of the reasons, of course, is that if the former countries of the Eastern bloc have signed this, you cannot today and we cannot pronounce on some legal order. What is the legal order in Slovakia, the Czech Republic, or Poland that is significantly different from ours? From the point of view of accession negotiations in the EU and entry into the EU, the basics are perfectly clear. And, of course, an additional explanation with Mr. Beast there and so on and so on – yes, what does this have to do with it? What role does he play if he is in an international body? This is, of course, proof of how you say one thing on one side – I am not talking about the Minister now, but I am talking about the Slovenian political left – and on the other hand you are doing the other. And this one time in this country, of course, will be over. The question is, when is this going to end in this country, but one day it will, you know. It's a de facto fact that it will! To take advantage of the time left at my disposal, I will tell you the following, which, of course, proves that other countries are acting completely differently on this issue than we are. Go to Budapest. I was there in 1994, around Parliament you saw all the socialist monuments, with Stalin at the head. When I got there in 2010, the picture was completely different there. I asked you where you put it. Well, they immediately sold me a ticket for 15 euros to go see these sculptures 15 kilometers out of town. What is the situation in Slovenia? Those who signed people's murders still have monuments there. Yeah, you guys keep your head down. Those who signed and demanded manslaughter are still honored with monuments; those who were killed lie unburied in the earth. These are the reasons why we have to come to the end of this issue once in this country and that is why I have proposed a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u220	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26. 9, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the question of Mr Uroš Pikl, Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman. Mr. Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In 2013, the government committed to the European Commission or the Directorate-General for Competition Protection to privatise our largest NLB bank by the end of this year in exchange for the aid granted to domestic banks in difficulty. Just to remind myself, this is a system bank, it's the largest bank, it's a bank with a strong position in countries in south-eastern Europe, and it also has a kind of specificity, because it's also a bank carrying the burden of a dispute between two countries. [[…]] As it is known, the Government has slowed or halted the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank – the Minister will say how and what – due to the low price, which was also hit by an uncertain fate of around EUR 400 million of the difficult issue of transferred foreign exchange deposits of the Croatian savers of the Ljubljana Bank, as the Government risked and also did not want to transfer it to the country. Since Slovenia will not sell at least half of NLB by the end of this year, and by the end of next year, I suppose, the remainder of up to 25 per cent minus that share, as the Commission has in some way committed itself to in return for 2013 State aid, it has been said that the financial ministry of the European Commission will first check where the field of that possible compromise or how to proceed with this so-called privatisation. The 2013 Decision of the European Commission granting State aid is a case in which the Slovenian State does not conclude a binding NLB sales contract by the end of this year, the envisaged sale of banks across the Balkans through a special guardian, independent of the State manager of the banks. This is, or is, a major blow to the system bank, particularly in terms of its development potential. In addition, the new Ljubljana Bank has achieved very good business results, which is why I ask you, Madam Minister, here: How are negotiations with the European Commission on commitments to sell the New Ljubljana Bank or what can we expect in the next resistance?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u222	Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Pikl, allow me to wish you good luck on your birthday. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor and thank you for the question. As soon as the Government decided to stop the sale process or procedure for the listing of shares in the New Ljubljana Bank on the stock exchange, we adopted a detailed plan of activities aimed at maintaining the New Ljubljana Bank as an international regional financial institution, i.e. as a whole, as well as operating today, with its headquarters in Ljubljana and subsidiaries throughout the region of South-Eastern Europe. All activities, both in relation to the European Commission and in relation to other interested institutions, are focused on this. The talks run at two levels, at the professional level and at the level with Commissioner Vestager. I had my first conversation with her after the first round of professional talks in July. It is agreed that the talks will continue, and I expect that next time we will meet in early October at the latest. As it is said, all activities are aimed at maintaining the position of the Bank as an international regional financial institution, and in view of the envisaged timetable in the signed commitments, we are working to reach, in principle, agreement with the European Commission on possible changes in commitments by the end of October, which allows us to take the next steps that the existing commitments will not have to take. However, details cannot yet be explained in more detail at this time, but in addition to our ministry, we have also included all other stakeholders or all other ministries in these efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Thank you very much also to the Vice President of Germany for his good wishes. Of course, Minister, I am satisfied in some way with your answer that you, as the most responsible in the financial field in this government and also the Government as a collective body, have in mind that we keep the New Ljubljana Bank as a player in Europe, i.e. regionally, if you wish on a national and regional level. Experience with the sale of one of the system banks, I am talking about the New Maribor Credit Bank, if you ask me personally, are not the best. For the time being, there are no negative results on the committees themselves, but once you release such an important institution from the hands, some doubts and concerns about the future can, of course, be justified. I would like to say that in my understanding, that some negotiating points and plans for the future will not be disclosed here, of course, this would probably also be a very bad trip for the very activities that await you in the future. [[…]] Of course, you mean that it is not solely the intention to get rid of these banks at any cost, but we do not, of course, endure what we could, but above all, that those who are ours, your negotiators, on the other hand, as representatives of the European Commission and the relevant institutions in this regard, even in the sense that they have — but now very domestically — the same wattts, the same meters and that Slovenia, as a relatively small state in the European Union, will be forced to accept what perhaps countries with a greater tradition, with larger, richer financial institutions, did not need when their banks were being rescued in the Balkans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u227	Thank you very much for complementing the question. I can assure you that all the starting points for discussions with the representatives of the European Commission are being coordinated at the level of the Government and that we are using all the economic, legal and political arguments available to support what we are working towards and what I have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Madam Secretary! A few days ago, I attended an extraordinary meeting of the municipal council of the Municipality of Črna in Koroškem, which was convened with only one purpose, measures for the rehabilitation of the Mežiški valley. In the media, you can see for yourself what's going on, or that blood samples analysis of 90 children from the municipalities of Montenegro in Koroškem and Mežica showed high levels of lead in 18 three-year-olds, which is the highest percentage of the last few years. Although the analysis has been carried out every year since 2008, when the Government’s programme for the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiščina Valley, which has been heavily burdened by heavy metals due to mining in the past, has entered into force, but the results shown by this rehabilitation of the Mežiški valley are, of course, poor if I do not say catastrophic. If medically speaking, the limit to 100 micrograms of lead per litre of blood is still acceptable, we have even faced lead values of up to 338 micrograms per litre of blood. I think it's totally unacceptable that not only children, but also adults live in a toxic, life-threatening environment. And here, of course, I would expect from not only the ministry, but also the government to accelerate the rehabilitation of the upper Mežiški valley, not only in the form of more activity, but we also need to look at the other side. The government or the last few governments of the Republic of Slovenia owe the Meži Valley at least EUR 2 million, as little funding has been provided for this rehabilitation programme in recent years. My appeal here is to make sure that these funds are secured as soon as possible, and of course it will also be necessary to ensure that the rehabilitation of the Mežiški valley is extended longer than is foreseen, as we see in practice that the results are catastrophic. We can also see that, on the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finances various other environmental activities, such as cleaning plants in Belarus and Serbia and Montenegro, we all support this, but it is definitely necessary to help with environmental problems and problems at home in Slovenia. I think that these €2 million in debt in the light of high economic growth, as the Prime Minister would also like to commend the Government, should not be a problem to find. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members! Thank you, Mr. Andrey Couch, for the question. I am sure that the topic is topical, but at least at the beginning of my implementation in terms of "catastrophic data" I have to look at this data. As already mentioned, honourable Member, these data and analyses of children's blood have been happening for more than 10 years, 11 years, after 2007, data have shown that lead content in children's blood is falling, luckily, and the amount of lead in children's blood fell by last year. It is true, however, that this year's data for lead in the blood of children have slightly increased in the proportion of children. This means that the remedial measures implemented in 2007 have yielded results, but it is necessary to look at why lead levels in children's blood have increased again. It is true that the Mežíska Valley is the only case in which state money is allocated for these measures, under the Environmental Protection Act, the originator is to pay and the mine in the Mežíska Valley has gone bankrupt and the state is the one that is financing this programme. I agree with you that in the past there has been a partial shortfall in the amount of funds allocated to this programme. It was agreed that by the end of the implementation of this programme, by 2022, all the missing funds would be provided by the end of last year. The most important part of this programme is to implement those measures that are necessary to ensure better child health or better data, a better state of lead in the blood of children. In any case, the funds themselves are not sufficient, the measures must be properly processed, i.e. in those locations that produce better results or that comprise a larger number of children. If I look alone, the National Institute for Public Health is this year – the date of this material is 17. Seven. 2017 – explain additional measures and identify additional implementation of the remedial measures. This means that their work has been thorough, they have prepared this material, which is now being processed or reviewed, or in the knowledge of all the members of the expert commissions provided for in the Valley of Mežiški, and this Commission meets in October that the programme of these measures, which must also be financially valid, will be set aside for the next period. I am sure that this has also been discussed in the congregation. Indeed, there is a problem that needs to be addressed, namely that ownership of parcels where anti-pollution protection should be regulated is in mixed ownership, i.e. that it is in private ownership, and that either the consent of these owners must be obtained or a way to finance this disputed arrangement on these lands must be found. I can process all of these measures further, but we are aware that this programme, namely the rehabilitation of the Meziska Valley, is of paramount importance for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, will you give the minister another chance? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u233	Of course, I'll give you a chance, and I'll add a few more things myself. I thank you for the first part of the answer, but I would say that I personally as a citizen of Slovenia do not imagine that I would live or that my children — or I do not have them yet — but I hope that I will have them — live in such an environment. Here I must say that I share the criticism of some Members from this region who say that Koroška is unfortunately a forgotten region by the state. Here, too, as Štajerec, I give some support to the region of Koroška to move something forward. I would not like to talk about some of the trends you have been talking about, Madam Minister, but mainly about the facts. And the fact is, 20% of the three-year-olds in Mesica and in Montenegro in Koroška have much too much lead in their blood. If we accept that and say, "Okay, that's how it is," I am, frankly, very disappointed. If I were a citizen of these municipalities – otherwise there is quite a bit of driving to Ljubljana, but I think that everyone would risk something for it – would protest and strike every day, not only in front of the Ministry of Environment and Space, but also in front of the Government, because there is also the heart of this problem, which ignores the region of Koro. At a meeting of the municipal council, in particular, there was also talk about one law that would, of course, be written and put in place in a procedure whereby the state would commit itself to assigning EUR 2 million to the Koroan region or to the Meží valley for rehabilitation as soon as possible and that this would, of course, reinforce certain activities. Because if we just look at trends and statistics, we're not going to have any of that. In Slovenia we say that Slovenia is a beautiful green country, we have entered water into the constitution, but what helps us when citizens and citizens are denied every day the right to a healthy and secure environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u235	Thank you. I am sure that we will not find a sound at the Ministry of the Environment and Space with Mr Chuš, in the sense that we are aware in the Government of the need to provide sufficient support for these measures, including financially, that our desire to illustrate this by co-financing the Government for the construction of cleaning facilities in Eastern Europe has nothing in common or is far from the truth. Calling people to come to Ljubljana is politically acceptable for Mr Chuš, but I am sure that people are aware of the need to take action in their case when we are talking about the rehabilitation of the Mežiški Valley. This means that children’s kindergartens must also be taken care of, regardless of the fact that in 2009, land was already replaced in children’s kindergartens. This means, in some ways, that a possible source of pollution has not yet been completed, which means, in particular, that we need to be very careful about the possible introduction of additional amounts of lead into the domestic environment. And this is our task in preparing the programme part for 2018 and 2019. Again, the Ministry of Environment and Space is not the only one in the implementation or search for measures, especially the National Institute for Public Health in these professional directions, it advises us, it helps us, in fact, it is their task. The Ministry of Environment and Space is, of course, obliged to monitor and monitor the situation in the environment, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment is permanently monitoring air, soil and water. For this very topic, which is most important in this upper Mežiška valley, i.e. for children, is the body monitoring their health, which plans measures to prevent all further contamination, the National Institute for Public Health. And further, so in October, the result of the work of this Commission and the approaches to be implemented in 2018 and 2019 will probably be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u237	Thank you very much again. Defending the view that humans are themselves guilty of living in such an environment is dangerous and unacceptable. The State is the one giving environmental consent, and the country is the one operating with the state apparatus. This includes environmental inspection and diverse nature intervention experts. That's why I have to say I'm not happy with the answer. In view of the problem and urgency or the need for action, I propose that we discuss the Minister's response to the debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 26 September. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister Gaszperšič, we've had some successful battles together. Let me mention the revitalisation of the Bohinj railway, to mention the ongoing restoration of the H4 fast road – here I will address the next meeting with a question on this renewal. My question of departure mainly touches on the railway links between Slovenia and Italy. We know that these two countries are the worst connected throughout the European Union. A number of efforts have been made on your personal side, with our own, we are talking about the Primors, and again with the help of Commissioner Violeta Bulc, it has been promised that Venice and Ljubljana will connect in the coming year. We expect more – and this answer is in the air – what is the connection between Gorica and Novo Gorica. But I don't want to focus on passenger traffic, I want to focus on freight traffic. In fact, in mid-August the news echoed that the Italian government had earmarked funds for the so-called binder, which connected Slovenia and Italy in some way and their freight traffic across the Vrtojba border. The Italian government has committed funds, it is spoken of by this link on the Italian side. [[Incomprehensible]] My question, Mr. Minister, is: How's that working out on the Slovenian side? We know that in some ways it is also our common exercise that we will move as much cargo as possible from the highway to the railway tracks. I want to know: Can we expect a similar response as we witnessed this summer by the Italian Government, including by the Slovenian Government? This is an important message. I know that you are aware that there are 14 such nodes that have been considered a priority in the European area, and this is one of them. I also want to know: How long do you think it will take to understand this node to the extent that freight traffic between these countries will take place smoothly?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u241	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, honourable Member, Mr Matjaž Germany, for the question raised. A nice greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament and, of course, to both fellow Ministers! It is true that in this government's mandate, we are working hard to improve rail links with all international connections where these links are still inadequate. With Italy, we know that there are several problems, particularly in establishing a regular railway connection between Ljubljana, Trieste and Venice. It is not proud of us that today, in the 21st century, such a train does not operate. Of course, there is no easy fault here on our side, there is a railway connection, but in the past there have been quite a few problems between operators on both sides. I have already discussed this with my Italian colleague, Commissioner Violeta Bulc, on this issue, has also committed herself to getting rid of it as soon as possible and, according to the information I have, this matter will be resolved in a short time, so that this railway connection will also be reached. In Nova Gorica, or more precisely in Vrtojba, we have an infrastructure problem that requires a certain investment. I can say that in the framework of project Adria A, which has been studied in the past and has also been co-financed by European funds – here I have one such scheme from this project – a feasibility study of the so-called track triangular was prepared in 2014 during the track section of the Šempeter–Vrotojba section to the state border and then Gorica and during the same route of Nova Gorica–Sezana. The study showed that rail links in this area could be improved by measures estimated at around €7 million. These are the measures on our side. These measures are as follows. The production of the missing arc in Vrtojba, which connects to Nova Gorica-Sežana, worth €1.2 million, is then two actions at the station itself, estimated at a weak million euros, is a very important measure to modernise the signalling devices and introduce the ERTMS system, estimated at €3.8 million, and the introduction of electricity itself, estimated at around €1.1 million. Together, these measures are estimated at a low of €7 million. We also agree that this is an extremely cross-border project of international importance, and therefore we believe it would make sense to implement it with financial support in the Interreg area of sustainable mobility between Italy and Slovenia. Accordingly, we have already proposed in Trieste on 8 June this year an extension of the project by which Italy is running for funding from Interreg, where this project is intended to establish the previously mentioned railway passenger link between Ljubljana, Trieste and Venice. Unfortunately, however, the Italian side recently informed us on 12 September this year that all of the funds from this project are intended to relaunch the Venice-Ljubljana train. In short, it's obviously a big priority for them. Since the evaluation of these project proposals is still under way, we will continue to strive for this to be complemented in some way. However, neither such a different decision nor a different decision has been provided at the moment. In any event, we believe that all measures on the one hand and on the other side of the border need to be harmonised and implemented in a coordinated manner through time and to the extent that only this way of updating makes sense. We will therefore continue to strive for this co-financing to be exposed. I will also check with the Italian Minister what their plans are, and this will be further checked at the upcoming meeting of the Interstate Commission, which will be held in Brdo pri Kranj in October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u243	Thank you very much. That is exactly what I wanted to point out, Mr Minister, because the strategic group is just before the meeting, which is why I felt I needed to intervene in this regard. In fact, this is not only about the relationship between the two European countries, it is not only about the philosophy of the distance from the highway to the railway tracks, but – just to get to know you – we have talked practically about the burden at the railway station in Nova Gorica, where the surrounding population is very burdened with the volume of work at this historical facility. A few speeches were already about the possible construction of soundproof walls. Let me tell you something else, because there is a chance that there will have to be a relatively quick approach to security for thousands of students who are trespassing illegally daily, if I may say so, these tracks. But what I'm trying to say is that this maneuver would take a big part of the New York noise out of the city center. It would no longer be necessary to face this problem, because if we had this bow, then there would be no such sound loads in the very face of the city, I am talking about a strategically important area, including historically and symbolically. To relieve the core of the city and enable the connection between Sežana and Novo Gorica, so that you do not have to turn to the railway station in Novi Gorica. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u245	I think I've explained what our plans and priorities are. For us too, the establishment of this link is important, and we will work for it, but also thank you for this additional information, so that we can also solve the problem of noise at the railway station in Nova Gorica itself, which is, of course, one of the important objectives that we are working towards in fact everywhere in Slovenia. So these burdens are getting smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Minister, the Foreigners Act and the related sub-law also regulate, among other things, various certificates and residence permits in Slovenia, which differ naturally according to the status of the person. The current Regulation on the manner in which the residence permit is issued, the method of fingerprinting and the method of marking the termination of the residence permit provides that the residence permit shall be issued as a card. So it's like a ID. On the other hand, the current Regulation on the content, form, method of issuing and terminating certificates of residence and residence permits for nationals of the Member States of the European Union and their family members and family members of Slovenian nationals provides that this certificate shall be issued in the form of a plasticised card. In practice, this is actually a card that has plastic foil on it. Users turned to me and warned me that there were problems using such cards. These card cards, dressed in plastics, often encounter some kind of mistrust, especially with foreign authorities, especially at customs or police checks in internal aviation within the European Union, and some cases have also occurred when such persons, namely family members of our citizens or citizens of the European Union, are detained because foreign authorities did not simply believe that this is an official document. Since these are cards that are payable in both cases, they are paid by the user, the person who asks for this, but I do not think there is any need for this distinction, so that those who are for third-country nationals are practically very similar to our personal cards, and the others, precisely those cards, are plasticised. I want to know: Are you familiar with this problem or do you know it? Why is there even this difference that some cards are plastic by themselves and others are cardboard? Are you planning on putting an end to this? An amendment to the Foreigners Act is being considered or in the legislative procedure, which is expected to amend these rules. I also want to know: Will you address this problem of these users in this law?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u249	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr Vatovec, yes, we are familiar with this issue at the Ministry. I will explain to you based on the more demanding professional bases, in particular the European acquis, and perhaps then it will be clearer where this distinction exists, which is to a certain extent. Licences for third-country nationals for other reasons or purposes shall be issued on the basis of a Council Regulation of 2008 or corrected by a Regulation of 2002 on a uniform form of residence permit for third-country nationals. The Regulation explicitly provides in the first indent of Article 5 that third-country nationals who are family members of EU citizens – that is to say Slovenian citizens – who exercise the right to freedom of movement – are not subject to this Regulation. In this respect, Article 5a provides that if a Member State applies a uniform form for purposes not provided for in this Regulation, it must ensure by appropriate measures that no replacement with the residence permit referred to in Article 1 is possible and that the purpose of the card is clearly stated. If we turn this into one more understandable form now, it follows that the cards issued to EU citizens and their family members who are third-country nationals and to family members of Slovenian nationals who are third-country nationals must differ from other residence permits issued to third-country nationals. Hence the basis for this manifestation of distinction, which you also mention in your implementation. The fact is that certain legislation is open, but here I can say that we made a public contract this year to produce and deliver documents in the form of cards for citizens of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The subject matter of this order is cards which contain a higher level of protection and include additional protective elements both in this case and in the stamp of the cards, which means that these cards will also be shown differently on the outside. Of course, there will be a need to amend the relevant sub-legislative acts, namely the two regulations on the content, form and method of issuing and termination of residence certificates and residence permits, so that we plan to have new cards issued by the end of this year. Of course, to a certain extent it also depends on the dynamics of the contractor, but somehow we plan to see a change in this area within these time-frames.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Dr. Tashner Vatovec, please, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u251	Just for a little while. If I understand you correctly, then will the new cards be the same – they are said to be both plastic, but significantly different, or still be cardboard, but still with a slightly higher level of protection and will show perhaps a little more officialism? Because the information I got, as well as the scans they sent me, is such that these files actually look like they weren't published by an official. Without a stamp, without a signature and, of course, they kind of cause a little concern, I suppose, with other authorities controlling it. So only if you explain this detail, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I think I've explained to you how we address this issue or what segment. So the higher level of protection will certainly be, and the additional protective elements will be, which means that these IDs will get a new form. But something more concrete is difficult to tell you right now, because this is a real question. Of course, if you are interested in anything else in the future, we will also be able to provide you with additional explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u255	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I must say from the outset, I am pleased that other Members have also begun to take an interest in the topic of lead in the blood of children. No harm, the 9th year recovery, we must kindly tell the truth that this program, this rehabilitation, has brought some success. Causes. The increase in these values is also expected to be due to the dry weather conditions in this year prior to the collection of blood samples and, consequently, to the higher dusting of road sections that pose a risk to children. The absorption of lead in children is greater than in adults and lead is therefore significantly higher in children. This may lead to serious health problems in the case of a child with a reduced amount of lead. In order not to continue to explain these general matters, as my colleague Chuš has already said, I would just go on to these questions that I am interested in, me and my environment. I want to know: What measures have been taken so far to the upper Mežiški valley? Have these measures been successful, or have they reached an impact and improved the situation in this valley? Has the amount of lead in the blood decreased with the implementation of the current remedial measures? Has your ministry provided sufficient funding or when will you make up for past years? Are you already preparing a follow-up programme? Of course, I know you've already answered most of the questions, but sometimes you have to say it twice. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u256	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr Kopmajer, Commissioner, thank you for the question. I agree with what you have stated that the Decision on Areas of Maximum Environmental Burden and on the Programme of Measures to Improve the Quality of the Environment in the Upper Mežiški valley takes a number of different measures to reduce exposure to lead and introduction into the body. The measures focus mainly on reducing the mobility of contaminated dust, which is raised from bare ground and even more on macadam roads. In fact, in the upper layer of indigenous soil, lead has been loaded over many years, and processed material from mining waste has often been used to regulate macadamian roads. Of course, all of this has been done in many decades when the environment, when pollution has not been discussed as much as it is today. This partial material from mining waste was also used in construction, inter alia, to edit facades. And the implementation of measures such as children's playground management, facade management, overcoating of the macadamian surfaces, the greening of bare land, the protective diet, not only affects the smaller exposure of the inhabitants of lead from the environment, but undoubtedly also means improving the quality of living in the upper Meži valley. The effectiveness of the measures taken is monitored by determining the level of lead in the blood of children. And if I say that, at the start of the programme, half of the children tested had higher levels of lead than 100 micrograms per litre of blood, after five years of implementation of these measures were as high as 10% of children. And as I have already stated in one reply today, this trend of decline has now stopped or even slightly increased, but after the number of children has fallen. This means that all situations where additional measures need to be re-examined and what further action needs to be taken. Because the goal of the long-term programme is to achieve that children from the upper limit valley will have a lead content in the blood below 100 micrograms per litre. The measure itself foresees 95% of all children, but I am sure that we will all advocate that these children, who would have higher levels of lead in their blood, would not actually be. This means that we must be committed not only to the implementation of the measures, but not only to the community, but to all of us working together to do so. This objective is also achievable by the quality implementation of the measures imposed, by the proper maintenance of the status achieved and by the management of new emissions. Our ministry provides enough money to carry out the rehabilitation. I have already said that the review group will meet in October to complete its work by proposing new measures, including on the basis of studies by the National Institute for Public Health. However, for these purposes, €750,000 is provided for each year in the field. We will, of course, also pay special attention to the functioning of the existing industry in the upper Mežiški valley, in order to prevent any additional burden on the environment with lead from such plants. The Ministry is particularly committed to this work. This means that we are implementing the programme following the current dynamics by 2022, but it is true that the implementation of further measures needs to be specifically addressed, I would say, in the next mandate. In this mandate, it is difficult to expect any further implementation of any regulations, and I do not think they are necessary in relation to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u258	We continue with the question of Mr Primož Hainz, Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Mr. Hainz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u259	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, a warm welcome to both ministers, or ministers, and to the minister! This spring we adopted a new Law on Road Traffic Rules, which despite major criticisms, you remember, and with concern already brings some positive results. In fact, what was the problem is disappearing from the sidewalks, fast drivers, young drivers who are wild and dangerous to the pedestrians, and, of course, all those who drive more than 25 kilometers an hour. So this problem has proved to be well solved, but of course every marriage can also have some shortcomings. And this one kind of has it, and that's what I'd like to point out. It's about the solex. The Solex are defined by this law as some kind of moped, but of course the solex are not. Solexi are bicycles with some auxiliary motorbike that do not reach even 20 kilometers an hour and are actually slower than any biker, roller skater or, say, skir. Most solexes are an older date, so they actually represent some kind of technical heritage. What some of our members have warned me about is that older, calm people are driving and, of course, asking why they should wear helmets. Because they are more similar or would essentially belong to a category of bicycles. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure: Will you listen to these calls? Is there anything you can do? If you don't have that purpose, I'm interested in the reasons why you can't do it. I know that the problem is not mass, these solexes – they are all old, extremely old and, of course, because of this – are not much. Since this is small, of course it is a small problem, it is probably easier to solve. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u260	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor. Mr. Hainz, I would only ask you for a microphone. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u261	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Primož Hainz, honourable Member, for the question raised that touches on transport safety, which we know is a very sensitive area. You have already said that bicycles with auxiliary solox engine according to the classification of motor vehicles are classified as mopeds, and the use of a protective helmet is mandatory for drivers and passengers on mopeds, including those whose speed is limited and does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. This obligation to wear a helmet was introduced by supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act, which was adopted in October 2016, which was initiated by the Group of Members. It was also stipulated that for these mopeds, up to 25 kilometres per hour, a protective protective motor helmet could be used instead of an approved protective motor helmet. In the Ministry of Infrastructure, in terms of transport safety, we support the widest possible use of protective helmets, both for moped drivers and for all other single-vehicle drivers, i.e. for bicycles, although this marriage commitment has not yet been made there or is set up until the age of 18. However, this is due to the fact that the drivers of one-way vehicles are among the most vulnerable road users and also the most frequent victims of traffic accidents. In terms of illustration alone, 9 bikers, 2 moped drivers and 20 motor bike drivers have already been killed in traffic accidents this year. These are the numbers that warn us that we need to make even greater progress here in this area. And this is also why the Ministry of Infrastructure strongly recommends the use of protective helmets. Even in cases where it is not prescribed as mandatory. As I said before, this is highly recommended, including for roller users, ordinary bicycles and so on. Therefore, for these reasons at the Ministry, we are not inclined or planning to amend these rules, which provide for mandatory use of the protective helmet, nor in this case any exceptions in the moped driver category. I, too, as a minister, who, of course, is also in charge of transport safety, are very concerned about all the initiatives that are going in the direction of reducing this traffic safety in any way. I am sure that the use for these drivers, the users of bicycles solex, of a bicycle helmet can be acceptable, so that it does not prevent, I don't know, some pleasant ride with these bikes with the auxiliary engine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u262	Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister! Where do I start? Maybe we can just start near Ljubljana. On the Vrhnika, the case of Kemis and the ecological disaster, for which there were, of course, more factors, but of course, we cannot overlook something. The fact that 12 years of banned chemicals were stored in the premises of Kemis in Slovenia is simply unacceptable. If we are going to an ecological disaster in the New Town Reserve, we can see that despite repeated warnings from the local population and from civil initiatives, they have been smoothly driven and ignored. Unfortunately, it had to happen, which is that all of Slovenia saw what was going on. There was something about these disasters, including in Luttomer, on Ptuj, and I could still list them. If we move forward in the area of the environment, we have about 20 to 25 biogas plants in Slovenia, but at least 4 to 5 are those that are very problematic and create not only smells but also great economic damage. Consider the case in Lendava, where local thermals were being abandoned by people and tourists. There are, of course, some other very problematic areas here, but perhaps I would like to continue with those in the second round, but the responses given by the Ministry of Environment and Space do not mean only you, but also the environmental inspection, including all other experts working at the Ministry of Environment – show that they simply do not control the state facing in the field of environmental protection and ecology today. Of course, this is not the case with the statement that nature cures and heals everything anyway. I want to know: Do you think in the government and the ministry about reparations, at least for the citizens of the municipalities affected by these ecological disasters, and from the New City to Vrhnika in particular? Is it true that for every ecological crime caused by non-compliance with the rules and by the poor functioning of state inspections and services, a citizen must sue the country himself? I think it's very sad. Once again, we can put the right to clean drinking water into the Constitution, but if we constantly degrade the environment with other interventions and make life's quality worse, it's hard to boast about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u265	Dear Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! Mr Andrej Chuš, honourable Member, thank you for the question. When I quote, I must refrain from stating your events. In fact, in the Environmental Protection Act, of course, we are talking about environmental disasters and I will use this term. However, we can start at Vrhnika with Kemis, where the criminal investigation has already been carried out, and of course their results are already known. I can say that the information you spoke about was used in the context of nature's rehabilitation and thank you that I can again explain that before this accident the Tojnica River was polluted by the industry that operated on Vrhnika decades ago. I said that the flow from pollution to this situation, when the brook polluted Kemis, was revitalized. Therefore, the question that arises to us is to what extent will we impose on Kemis to remedy this stream. Or everything? This means that it will clean up all the floods left in this stream by other companies. We have called on the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to assist the environmental expert, who will now assess to what extent the rehabilitation of this stream will be entrusted to Kemis. This means, as I have already said this day, I repeat, the Environmental Protection Act speaks, the causer pays. Therefore, Kemis caused environmental damage, under the Environmental Protection Act, it is also obliged to remedy it. In my own opinion, I think that probably in the proportion of which the injury was caused only by the company, but now it is up to this expert that we have engaged, depending on how much of this necessary recovery will be imposed on the expert. Of course, these environmental disasters also take place on agricultural areas. There are these reviews and findings of the Food Security Office. However, for the population, both the analyses and then the follow-up measures are under the responsibility of the National Institute for Public Health. This does not relieve us, that is, the Ministry of Environment and Space, of any necessary measures, but the fact that, in all the major disasters, the cooperation of the inter-departmental groups is essential. Following the consideration of this accident in the National Assembly, the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee adopted a proposal, recommending that all environmental permits be reviewed and that companies, i.e. entities with environmental permits, be operated in accordance with an environmental permit. This is now an intensive focus, mainly because of the organisation and start-up of these groups. So it surprises me if it is somehow understood that the Ministry of the Environment and Space does not devote itself to this topic. Ljutomer is already known for his examination. That's where the arson was planted. For the third case, which was of great scope, there are currently no such analyses and it is not right to comment in any way. This means that all companies with an environmental permit will be reviewed, processed in due course and possible operational deficiencies will be identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, will you ask for an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u267	Thank God that you are in the Ministry dealing with a review of environmental consensus and all the acts that you may say have been bubbling up in the past, but here I am wondering what the hell has been doing now for three years. And if there was an environmental inspection here, which many citizens and citizens believe does not function or pursue its objectives – this daily tells me more and more people via e-mail and further – a number of these disasters, which unfortunately happened, would be prevented. Of course, on the other hand, we must say that investigations are also under way, and these criminal investigations will show why this has happened. But if everything worked and worked, even from the point of view of environmental consensus, such disasters should not occur. Then I must also say here that I agree and support your proposals, which are aimed at repairing the damage in the environment, but I repeat once again the question, what about the local population. Again, I ask: Are local residents entitled to any compensation, such as citizens and citizens of Vrhnika, the National Reserve of the New Town? Are they entitled to any compensation? Do they actually have to sue the country in order to achieve their right? And here, of course, I would ask for a concrete answer, i.e. a lot of these lawsuits are being announced and, of course, I think, the country and bureaucracy have saved not only a lot of money, but also time if they could be organised. However, I would also like to invite you, because you yourself have told us about the Environmental Protection Act, but I urge you not to rush into the changes of this law and to finally listen to civil society in the field of environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u269	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to the audience that environmental consensus is a different document in the process, such as environmental permits. Environmental consensus is a pre-trial procedure, an introduction to the acquisition of environmental permits, and a basic document on which an undertaking can enter into business is an environmental permit. I agree with all those who are critical that the review of all these environmental permits, the monitoring review, of the results of monitoring at such establishments is impractical. For those I can say that we have already approached the creation of an e-space in last year, that an artist is now selected and that we will adapt this application in a way that will be accessible to all. It is true, however, that the acquisition process itself and then the monitoring of the environmental permit is differently complex for different companies. There are companies that are very limited in this process and do not have many tasks to follow, and companies where the difficulty of monitoring these data is much higher. At the outset, in the first part of the response, I stated that we are the Ministry of Environment and Space, that we have, then, an appropriateness review or, I would say, food pollution of the Food Security Office and that, of course, the National Institute for Public Health is also the one who monitors the results and advises people. If I am going to Kemis now, she is already in the introduction to the professional services, including our ministry, and I have met myself with a lady lawyer representing the locals. So I think today the natives are very conscious, and they know how to look for the results they want. In this part, I give them the right one, and I think it's the same. As far as the new Environmental Protection Act is concerned, it is unusual, we do not know, we cannot, but on the other hand, when the matter is under consideration, some do not have two days to look at the document we have been preparing all year. Let's just say I don't understand that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u271	Thanks for the answer. Otherwise, I find it difficult to comment on what you have concluded — about ignoring civil society. I have to say that I got quite a few e-mails and even calls, so of course I'll check it myself, but I'm sure a few people have responded, even though somehow on one side of people I understand, here one month and a half doesn't work, why would they expect this from others? [[…]] I also agree to review all consents and permits. However, in the light of what is foretold — from the construction of hydropower plants on the Muri River, which go completely against some of the government's conclusions, and from the past, to the fact that there are reasonable suspicions of violations of the Water Act in the case of Magna Steyr investment — I would ask you not to rush with some new projects, because you see that there are still many skeletons in the cabinets and old sins that need to be reviewed first. That is why, of course, in this light, I propose that we discuss the answer to my question at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Chuš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the votes. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, chairman. On the sides of the employment agency we can see more and more advertisements for work, which is not work for this employer who has been commissioned, but this company is only an intermediary who sends the worker forward to another company. And we know that sometimes he gets hired, and often he doesn't. And that they are leeches, some parasites who take responsibility for violating labour law and for the shameless exploitation of employees, because their subscribers want the most flexible workers they can throw on the road overnight, as they do. The Employment Office supports all this by serving these agencies as a free advertising board for their exploitation practices. We've dug up some adverts to work through Manpower looking for the head of the chiropractor's workshop and the technologist to process the sheet. It is clear to everyone that these two men will not work in the offices of Manpower. Next, Adecco, for example, is looking for a worker in food production and for a commissioner in a warehouse. Adecco is not engaged in food production and does not have any warehouses. The M. Workers Agency is looking for a worker in production, although the M Agency does not produce absolutely nothing other than the pen. And it gets worse. The employment agency also advertises employers in Luka Koper, the so-called IPS or their bosses, which are cream users in our country. And we have several ads for Lucport, which has already been sanctioned by the work of espies with elements of the working relationship. Furs also received an application for employment in black with them. Next, Zag conti, the inspectorate found violations of the provisions relating to overtime, the right to use annual leave, unpaid wages and so on. Mavema, a legal prohibition decision has already been issued against this, which is now due to procedural errors in court. In short, the employment agency here is servicing parasitic labour agencies, and this is in a situation where the abuse of labour rights has been proven. My question is: Why, Madam Minister, do you allow the employment agency to do free advertising for holiday jobs, why is the employment agency doing free advertising for one of the most exploitative practices in the country? This should not be done after ZUTD. And if you haven't been informed of these practices, my second question is here. My second question is: Do you intend to prevent such practices from happening?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, for your word. Mr. Miha Kordish, thank you for asking. The Labour Relations Act takes into account Article 49 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the right to equal access to each job under the same conditions as one of human rights or fundamental freedoms. The U.S.R., i.e. the Labour Relations Act, provides in Article 25 for the obligation to publish a job or type of work. The purpose of the public publication of a job or type of work is to make the possibility of employment or of carrying out work known to the widest possible range of potential candidates for the occupation of a job or for the performance of a particular job. The publication of the work shall include conditions for the performance of the work and deadlines for the application, which shall not be less than 3 working days. Pursuant to Article 25 of the ZDR, public publication is possible at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, in means of public information, on websites or in publicly accessible business premises of the employer. Given that the issue raised relates to the need for the publication of the so-called agency work, let us stress that the obligation to publish public works under Article 25 applies both to agency works and to any other work under the employment contract. It should also be noted that the so-called agency, the agency you call it, is also an employer who has a contract of employment with workers. Agencies as employers are subject to the same or even stricter rules as all other employers in the conclusion of employment contracts with workers. The Employment Relations Act 1 provides for certain additional requirements concerning the content of the contract of employment, the temporary employment of the user, the dependency of payment for work and compensation on the actual performance of work by users in relation to the contract of employment between the worker and the agency. This means that the employer must also take into account the purpose of the public publication of the free work, make public the conditions for the performance of the work and the time limits for the application. The public publication of the job or type of work is regulated by Article 7 of the Market Regulation Act. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia shall publish, at the request of the employer, the job or type of work and shall carry out all the necessary procedures in relation to the provision of employment. The Office is not obliged to carry out a public publication of a job or type of work which is not in accordance with this law, rules governing working relations and rules governing the prevention of work and employment in black, or in respect of which there are circumstances which indicate that it is not intended to be employed in the employer who has proposed it. However, if the Agency, as an employer, publishes a vacancy at the employment agency, such employment is, of course, fully in line with the legislation in force and there is no reason why the institution would not help unemployed people to find such employment. The fact is that we are one of the few countries that has fully equal rights with the applicable legislation of workers working with the user through the Agency, with the rights of workers who are directly employed by the user. At the same time, it should be pointed out that in 2013 we, in agreement with the social partners, have tightened the conditions for the operation of the agencies, thereby significantly reducing the number of agencies, and all labour agencies must have the permission of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which means they must comply with strict legal conditions, otherwise the IMF also has the possibility, the power to withdraw the licence. It is not possible to compare the activities of the institution as an intermediary of employment agencies for the provision of work to another user, since it is only for the purpose of sending unemployed persons to job vacancies to employers who employ suitable candidates and for the agencies to employ them and then provide them to other users. The Office treats the Agency as any other employer, which means that the Agency publishes a vacancy and the institution sends the candidates to the Agency where further interviews on employment are held. In the event of a greater number of workers' needs, the institution shall cooperate with the company provided by the Agency to the workers. The cooperation of the agency with the agencies is correct and in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u277	I will certainly demand a supplement to the answer. My main question was whether such harsh exploitatives as the owners of Luka Koper, the Master of IPS, were publishing their exploitative jobs at the Employment Institute, right that it was happening. And I've really been expecting a little bit since this isn't some big topic on the front pages of the papers, to say, Madam Minister, yes, thank you, colleague Kordish, that you've alerted me to this, we'll sort it out right away. Eh, so we got another one in a series of typical answers when work-to-capital relationships occur. Prosperity about the organisational structure, rules that make it impossible for exploiters to get their fingertips, thus maintaining the status quo. Your colleague, Židan, is doing an ad in order to make it easier to pursue social goals in the future government. But you're already at SMC, Desus says they're preventing employment from being restricted in this coalition through agencies and just like I just mentioned it. You are the Minister of Labour, you are responsible for adopting and amending the rules on the way jobs are transferred to the Employment Service. All these laws, regulations, everything you've said, you can eventually reprint if you think it's necessary. You personally appoint the Director or Director of the Institute, including the members of the Board of the Institute. The President of the Board of the Bureau is a representative of your ministry. In short, you have scissors and linen in your hands. So I ask you again: Will you do anything to make it impossible for the public employment agency to serve as a free advertising board for employment agencies that use labour to make profits on workers' backs? It is not so much a question of what is now in the rules as whether you are prepared to change these rules in the defence of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u279	Thank you. That we're on to something. We have adopted two important amendments, the Labour Relations, Complementation Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act, where agency workers and their rights have been equalised to workers working in companies. So I ask you, however, that when you talk about IPP on the one hand, the boss, then you compare it with the agencies – the key problem of the labour market is that where there are problems, it turns out in particular that they are employers who provide work, but they do not have the permission of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. So the main problem is that they're doing something they shouldn't be doing. The main dispute in Cyprus, in Luka Koper, is that the IPP – and we have a dispute in the Administrative Court on this – does not meet the conditions for an intervention agency and is this fundamental dispute. If you are authorised by the Ministry of Labour to be an intervention agency, it means that you have a bank guarantee, because this also makes it a subsidiary responsibility to the company where you have posted workers, and to the workers who are employed in an agency and are doing business in a particular company, they must have the same rights as workers in that company. We did so by amending legislation in 2013. If the institution has no reason not to provide employment, it shall have a licence for the agency operating under the law. However, when it comes to the publication of a job for an employer who is in breach of legislation and is also listed, infringements have been identified by the work inspection, but it should be on the blacklist and it would not be appropriate for the employment agency to provide workers there. But please do not mix and put in the same light of the work intervention agencies that are authorised and operating in accordance with the law, and others who provide workers to other employers and do not meet the legal conditions. These are two different things and not, please, in the same way as agencies, we are the only country in Europe that has a provision that agency workers must be treated in the same way as other workers in the company. [[…]] And we accepted that in the National Assembly in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u281	Of course I'd like a debate. Illegal boss, legal boss – they're both still bosses and they're still parasites, and you're defending them on the basis of whether what they're doing is legal or not, or whether that's right. At the same time, before each election, your party is color red, sending its ministers, MPs to the partisan celebrations, while they are associating with capital. This is clear to anyone who has closely followed this mandate. From raising the minimum wage to strengthening the powers of the labour inspectorate, raising funds for this inspectorate to increase the participation of workers in the management of businesses, we put all of this in the procedure in Levica, and you have pressed the anti-social democrats. But I am still there, and it has happened that we have received the votes of two coalition parties, but never your votes, the voices of your Members, who are ready to sell the working class for a few tons of lignite for TES 6 at any time. I asked the Minister specifically this time whether she would take any action against the fact that there would no longer be advertisements for the work of intervention agencies such as Adecco, Manpower and M Services on the sides of the employment agency, and even more so that exploitative labour traders, the IPS, who work as subcontractors in Luka Koper, would not advertise there. These are companies that have already been sanctioned several times, and I have actually gotten the ruse itself. What is clear is, not that the Minister cannot do anything, but that she does not want to do anything. That is why, of course, I demand a general debate. We have laws, we have regulations, we have documents, we have the staff of a ministry that can influence the institution, all these levers can be pulled if that's all it wants to do. However, I advise you, Madam Minister, that in your party, instead of dreaming about how you will go after the elections to the Levica coalition, if you are finally able to achieve social goals, you begin to achieve these social goals without delay. Right away. Otherwise, in Levica, we will also look for our coalition partners through labour intervention agencies rather than go out with the Anti-Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Miha Kordish. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, there are currently two fast roads under Slovenia in Istria. One H6 is located in the section of Jagodje-Lucija, which connects Izola and Piran and is also in some way the continuation of the fast road, which is currently going from Kopra through Markovec to Izola. The purpose, of course, is to connect the congregations, i.e. the coastal municipalities of Isolo and Piran Koper, while the continuation of this road to Sečovlje is still in some way in the air or uncertain. According to my information, the DN was to be adopted in a short time, at any time. Procedures for the role of the building permit are also under way, 21% of the land purchased by Dars and so on. The second is the so-called H5, which is between Koper and Dragonjo, which is thought to be the main service road for transit, i.e. for people using Slovenian roads to transport to Croatia, and in some ways to connect Italy and Slovenia with Croatia's Istria, which is then foreseen for the adoption of the VAT in the coming year. What is interesting is that the construction of the H6 road is opposed in both Koper, Izola and Piran. Even so, the city council of Piranhas adopted a decision that opposed this road. That's what he's talking about in a way, a number of facts. The first is that these roads are burdened mainly during the summer when peaks, when practically half of Europe is rolling on these roads to Croatia. The current roads between the coastal municipalities are enough for local traffic or are an appropriate and additional fast road on this section, for example, would not be necessary. And since this is transit transport, it is logical to build first this transit road between Kopro and Dragonya, which would, of course, release this coastal road. And the fact is, if this is the case, if this road is first built, it is likely that all this transit traffic will begin on this road and, on the other hand, this section between Jagod and Lucija will be unnecessary. Last year you even said that it seemed more reasonable for you to first build H5, namely Koper-Dragon, and only then, if there was any need, H6 in any form. That's why I want to know: What's the current situation on this? How far is it by accepting the VAT for the Strait-Lucia section, so is this still in play? Do you still think it would be most reasonable to start with H5 and then think about whether H6 is even meaningful?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u285	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Member of the Commission, Mr Matthew Tashner Vatovac, for the question raised. I must say, it has been an honor for me today to answer the final question. I also welcome a fellow Member there who listens to this. With regard to the question raised, I would say so. Both roads, i.e. such a fast road, continuing from Jagodje to Lucija, as well as a fast road from Kopra to Dragonje, are included in the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030, which we confirmed in the National Assembly last year. But these two roads are in different stages of preparation or readiness. The fast road from Jagodje to Lucija is already placed in the space and is actually acquired by land or the process of obtaining a construction permit is ongoing, while the Koper-Dragonja fast road is still in the process of adopting the State Spatial Plan, where a public decomposition was made last year, and there are now views on the comments received in this public decommissioning. The state of readiness is therefore different, while the needs imposed by the traffic situation are in the opposite direction. And this is also the agreement reached with the local communities already in 2015 at the Ministry of Transport, where we discussed the issue of transport in the coast, where we, together with all representatives of all three municipalities, namely Kopra, Izola and Pirana, on this fast road from Jagoda to Lucija, agreed that the dynamics of the implementation of this road would be adjusted in such a way that the first link to Dragranje, i.e. from Kopra to Dragranje, would be made, only then the construction of a fast road towards Lucija would continue. For we know that if this sequence were reversed, there is a great risk that traffic would be diverted to this coastal road, where we know that then, further from Lucija towards the border crossing of Sečovija, we do not have the right solution for this greater traffic, that is, transit transport, to be resolved with appropriate infrastructure. That's what you have to say. The aim of the link from Kopra to Dragonje is to focus this transit, especially tourist, traffic as soon as possible with the coasts towards the border crossing of Dragonja, while the aim of the fast road from Kopra, Izola and then to Lucija is to connect local traffic between coastal cities and in the tourist season also tourist traffic, which takes place in particular on this Slovenian coast. So, the different purpose of these two fast roads is, but the transport studies that have been carried out for the purposes of the strategy show that traffic will be so high that in the period until 2030 the coast will need both fast roads. But as it is said, the agreement with local communities is that dynamics are carried out in the following way, so that first the link to the fast road to the Dragoň border crossing will be ensured, and then the activities against Lucija will continue. In the meantime, it has also been agreed with the local municipalities to implement certain measures on the existing road, improvements to the existing network, which will make it possible to be more accurate in this direction as well. In the course of these measures, let's just say redefinition of certain intersections into circles. This was done last year in Jagoda. It is also planned — I think the land acquisition issue will soon be resolved — at Belvedere to arrange the circle. In short, with such measures and also continue to go against the Sečovje border crossing, we want to take measures of a temporary nature or of a transitional nature – these measures will be implemented until this fast road is implemented. As we say, the fast road to Lucia is yes, but it's time for a fast road towards Dragonja, if I briefly sum it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Dr. Tashner Vatovec, please, please, request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u287	In a way, I understand why this road is against Lucia, but of course I also have one concern on the other. I think that, however, OK, the studies were done, but to service these coastal sites during the tourist season, you might still be able to find another solution. [[…]] On the one hand, we have an environmental reservation here, we know that the route of this road, as currently planned, goes close to Strunjanske salt, as it goes on, will in fact get very close to Sečovjem and also to what is the local park of Sečovljeske salt, and it is controversial from this point of view. Secondly, the fact that Lucia will in some way be decomposed in half, just as we already have a very strange situation in Cyprus, which is essentially decommissioned in half with a fast road, is also a little unacceptable from this point of view. On the other hand, from what you've told me, I probably know what you're going to say, but there's also this proposal from the countrymen who say they could go through Barede with some tunnel and then get back on Dragonjo. I want to know: What is the point of this? Is this Jagodje-Lucia road really necessary? Because I think that in large sections it affects not only the environment, but also, finally, what is local life in this area. Because, for example, for the daily needs, the integration of Kopra, Isol and Pirana does not really need this fast road on this section, because the current road is quite enough. For tourist purposes, however, I am interested in: Is there any other option, any other way that makes more sense? Because we know that during the summer, these peaks and traffic on these sections are actually unbearable.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I have already tried to point out, somehow, that these transport studies, which have been carried out for a longer period, in this particular case by 2030, indicate the need for this local traffic between coastal cities, according to Piranh, Portoroža v Isola and Koper, for these migrations that take place every day, throughout the year, will require a better road connection, and these needs will be able to serve and provide for a fast road. This idea, which was also given somewhere at the beginning of my mandate, we have given her a certain amount of attention, especially in that we have examined very precisely whether – because the idea was in particular in this – this connection could come from this fast road, coastal, through the tunnel under Baredi, to this fast road towards Dragoňa, which is going on between Kopro and this connection with the Bareds, and in this way we could abandon that part that connects from Jagoda to Lucija. In short, if you could use one of these connections to replace two fast roads. We have examined this very carefully and the traffic burdens show that such a, just one, fast road that would take place in this way would already be inadequate to service the basic needs of the link between coastal towns and would be absolutely inadequate during the tourist season. It was therefore found that this transit transport should be carried towards Dragoňa as soon as possible in Cyprus. And in that case, the tunnel under Baredi doesn't make any sense anymore. Because it would make sense if only one road could survive. However, as said, traffic loads and then the level of services and quality of transport would be totally inappropriate only with this one quick link – we have also explained this to local communities, for example – so it continues in this direction that the prospect of both fast roads being carried out, but as stated in this order, first against Dragonja, and then in accordance with the needs and possibilities of financing Dars continuation, of course, phased, in line with needs, against Lucija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-18-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u290	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday 26 September at 9 a.m. with oral questions to the President of the Government. I am adjourning the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Now I invite the others to go to the Congress Square and see our basketball players.
