ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Janja Sluga until 1:00 p.m., Vlasta Wait until 2 p.m., Ludmila Novak from 17:00 p.m., Nada Brinovšek to 14:00, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko from 14:00 p.m., Maria Antonija Kovacič, Primož Hainz between 17:00 and 20:00, Tomaž Gantar, Miha Kordiš, Luka Mesec between 12.30 and 15.30 p.m. Franc Trček between 3.30 p.m. and 6 p.m., Daniel Krivec, Branko Zorman until 5 p.m., Jernej Vrtovec between 4 p.m. and 20 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin between 16:00 and 20:00, Matjaž Hanžek from 18:00 on and Mag. Branko Grimes from 14 o'clock on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on Business Register of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! The Novela Act on the Business Register of Slovenia, which you decide today, contains two more important content sets. The first is the transposition of the European acquis. With a novelty we approach the second part of the implementation of the directive on the integration of business registers. At European level, the Directive establishes a system of integration of business registers consisting of European business registers, a European portal for access to company and branch data and a central information platform. The system of integration of business registers will allow for a single and simple electronic communication between business registers on facts related to the operation of companies and branches of foreign companies in the internal market and in one place, namely, on the European e-Justice website, providing public data and documents on capital companies and foreign branches of these companies. The e-Justice website will provide information and documents to be disclosed in accordance with the requirements of the Disclosure Directive and the documents of capital companies and branches of foreign companies. Some basic company data will be available free of charge on the portal, while others will be available free of charge or against payment according to the policy of each Member State. With regard to the transposition of the directive in the amendment of the law, we give the Apes the authority to manage the connection of the Slovenian Business Register with the system of linking business registers. In the second part it is about reform of the system All in one place or, shorter, system I know. The Vem system was established in 2008 with a new Law on the Court Register. After almost 10 years of operation, we note that I know a well-recognizable model of support for Slovenian entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, which has made a decisive contribution to reducing the number of procedures required to register companies, reduced the time of establishment and pushed Slovenia into this area among the best in the world. In the amendment to the Law on the Court Register, we transpose the provisions on the system All in one place and upgrade them in accordance with the legal framework of the Government's strategic development project I know about business entities. To this end, the National Assembly adopted a new Law on the Environment and Entrepreneurship in the spring of this year. Together with the new Law on the Court Register, we are rounding up the legislative part of our efforts to establish an even more effective support system for entrepreneurs and active companies at all stages of their development. We are establishing a support system consisting of four levels. The first development, this is a single business point, is the content of the development project of the Ministry of Public Administration. The second level will be the existing structure of the registration points, which will be re-ordered in the Business Register Act of Slovenia. The third level will consist of regionally distributed advisory points and the fourth highest will be the central point of which activities will be carried out by the Spirit Public Agency. I am convinced that the amendment of the law brings good solutions that will contribute to an even more friendly and transparent business environment, so I propose that you support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u4	Chairman, State Secretary with a colleague, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 28th session. 9. 2017 discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial and Tourism Council, and finance. The amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD groups, namely Articles 8, 14, 17 and 20. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained in the supplementary explanation that the comments of the service concerned in particular the procedure for obtaining the position of points of support for business entities and that compliance with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Registry, which builds on provisions allowing individual search. In conclusion, the representative of the service explained that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups fully address the comments of the service. The debate expressed support for the proposed solutions to the law, particularly in the light of the free movement of goods and services, legal certainty, economic crime and the internationalisation and better functioning of Slovenian companies abroad. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, considered and adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups, as set out in Articles 8, 14, 17 and 20. He then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report of the Committee, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u5	Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Register Act of Slovenia is adopted in a reduced procedure, as it is generally less difficult to amend and supplement the law. No amendments were tabled for the meeting of the National Assembly, while only minor corrections were made for the meeting of the parent working body by the coalition parliamentary groups. Companies are increasingly expanding their activities across national borders and taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the internal market of the European Union, and therefore there is an increasing demand for cross-border access to information on companies containing different registers, but cross-border access to official information is not always available. Registers also do not have a legal obligation to exchange information on foreign branches. This leads to legal uncertainty and prevents the effective exchange of information. The proposal of the Business Register Act of Slovenia partially introduces the provisions of Directive 2012/17/EU as regards the integration of central and commercial registers and company registers into the Slovenian legal order. The Directive establishes a system for linking business registers, consisting of business registers of EU Member States and European Economic Areas, a European central platform and a portal as a European electronic access point, to the internal market of the European Union. The powers of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Administration Records and Services — Ijpes in relation to the system of linking business registers, such as the exchange of data and documents in certain business register units, the provision of data and documents to the public at the European e-Justice Portal, and the establishment of a single identifier for the exchange of data and documents, and public publication through the system of linking business registers. In addition, provisions on the system to support business entities, the current system All in one place, I know, are being transposed from the Judicial Register Act. This also achieves the objectives of the Government's strategic development project 6.3 I know about business operators. Connecting to reducing administrative burdens and increasing legal certainty should contribute to promoting the competitiveness of the European economy. The use of new information and communication technology should also improve cross-border communication between registers. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Register of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u7	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and friends, dear guests! As I also said on the Home Economics Committee, the proposer, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, states that the objectives of the proposal are to transpose Directive 2012/17 into the Slovenian legal order. Renovate the system essentially point All in one place or regulate procedures in the business support system and remedy some minor shortcomings of the existing regime. The Directive, which we implement, sets out the business registers of the members of the European Union and the European Economic Area through the system of integration of business registers, provides information on certain legal facts relating to undertakings. The Directive also provides that companies must have a uniform identifier to enable companies and branches of foreign companies to be clearly identified in the communication between registers through the register interconnection system, so the draft law sets out the obligation of the Agency for Public Records to send data and documents on Slovenian capital companies in the system of linking business registers and receiving data and documents from foreign companies from the Member States of the European Union and to send data and documents to the registration court. Let me say that, even in the case of cross-border mergers, data and company registration documents resulting from cross-border mergers will be sent between business registers. Data and documents will be received by all business registers in which companies involved in cross-border mergers have had to file their documents for cross-border merger to enter into force. Under the latter point, I would also like to mention that on the other hand, the platform will have the function of an interface with a portal to the European entry point with optional access points to be established by the Member States. The portal will also address queries by individual users regarding company data and their branches through the use of the platform. The procedures in the system All in one place were therefore regulated according to the pattern of regulation in the Austrian Law on the Court Registry. The main objective is to ensure that the law that has followed and has been achieved is that Slovenia is ranked 49th in the field of the ease of establishment of enterprises after the latest study or analysis by World Bank Doing Business 2017, which means that it has advanced 49 places compared to 2007. So, what do I have to say? In 2007, the first Janševa government, which started the modernisation of public administration, a comprehensive project, also launched an e-portal project, i.e. joint points called I know the points, and because of this project we did not last make progress in all these years for 49 cities. So in one segment; this is mainly a segment of simplifying company registrations and so on. To close my debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you know, in all the laws where we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that value added is for Slovenian business entities, we are always and everywhere in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with laws that do not create new bureaucratic obstacles, which do not cause, not least, new taxes that simplify procedures. Therefore, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u9	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! Allow me to start by saying that the Desus Group, because of identical or very similar material, will present a common position and therefore we do not need a double time for both proposed novels, both the Business Register of Slovenia Act and the amendment of the Judicial Register Act. We will also support both the news unanimously. Similarly, it has happened in the treatment of both marriages on the competent committees. The coalition and the opposition have unitedly stepped together and have shown their support without complications for all the positive effects they will bear, and this will certainly be the case, both proposed amendments to both laws. In order to continue the implementation of the strategic government project I know or e-Vem, which needed to be renovated. This is an upgrade to the design and website of the Court Registry with additional functionality, which also extends its application to business operators. The solutions proposed will certainly bring greater control and transparency over the operations of capital companies. The fact that companies' branches and all liquidation procedures will be included in the integration system is even more welcome in the Desus Group, as they can help prevent abuse and chaining of companies. The implementation of the European Directive means easier access to data, and the exchange of data does not only include a system of integration between the Business Entity Register and the Court Registry at national level, but also integration with European databases. The system of cross-border cooperation in the Desus Group seems to us to be the key moment or element that will contribute to greater transparency in the business environment. We believe that the adoption of the novel will also improve competitiveness in the European market, as entrepreneurs will be able to obtain information in one place about their current or future business partners and thus create better quality and business relations with other members of the European Union; all in the interest of a better business environment, better business results of economic operators, of course in the final stage of interest and protection of end-users, these are people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u11	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Law on the Business Register of Slovenia implements, in our legal order, the solutions of the European Directive relating to the exchange of information on companies between the authorities responsible for the processing and handling of these data in individual Member States. In accordance with Directive 2012/17/EU, the new obligations of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for public records and services or less of Apes shall be laid down. By sending data and documents on Slovenian capital companies to the system of integration of business registers from the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area. Secondly, the receipt of data and documents on foreign companies from the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area. Thirdly, sending all these data and documents to the registration court. Fourthly, sending public data and documents on Slovenian capital companies for publication on the e-Justice website. However, the e-Justice web portal represents an electronic system all at one place to access information on European justice and European judicial procedures, access to registers, data records and so on. In accordance with the requirements of the European Directive, the Ypes obligation to assign uniform identifiers will be laid down to allow for the unequivocal identification of companies and branches of foreign companies in communication between registers through the register integration system. New Slovenia is a pro-European party. The common internal market, designed by the fathers of the European Union, is one of its most important pillars. The single market of the European Union is seen by Christian Democrats as the historic acquisition of Europe and also as a great opportunity for the economy of Slovenia. Such an arrangement reduces trade costs, facilitates business between Member States and consequently increases the productivity of the economy in the whole of the Union. We believe that the proposed amendment to the Slovenian Business Register Act implementing the European Directive strengthens the regulation of the common European internal market and ensures its long-term smooth functioning. In the New Slovenia Group, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Business Register of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you and a nice greeting to everyone! The Law on the Business Register and the Law on the Court Register in the Grave are considered to be positive, at least their purpose. Increasing transparency is, of course, a condition for better supervision, but changes in both the judiciary and the business register have been quite something in recent years, and unfortunately none of them have improved in practice. The reason for this lies mainly in lack of control. Supervisory institutions are those without which no improvement can be made. We can write anything into the marriage, but if no one controls the respect of the law, all our efforts are in vain. The main question remains, therefore, whether the changes will help solve the problem of abuse by chaining businesses, setting up straw companies and selling businesses that allow fraudulent and illegal exploitation of workers. It will, but only if the supervisory authorities play their part and the changes that are ahead of us become a problem. We know the practice of chaining companies, we know the cases of illegal and illegal abuse of workers. We already have legal prohibitions, penalties and defined crimes, but in practice nothing happens to prevent this. In Levica, we are already alerting the entire mandate to such cases. We propose solutions, we propose concrete proposals, but the coalition firmly rejects them. We can't get rid of the feeling that the government and the coalition don't really want too much change. Employers are constantly placed in front of workers, and more or less are proposing cosmetic amendments to the legislation instead of strengthening the supervision by both additional budgetary resources and additional staff. And even in the case of amendments to the Business Register Act and the Judicial Register Act, there is nothing else; for the basis of a positive change, which, due to insufficient supervision of implementation, remains as likely after the adoption of these laws only a dead letter on paper. The possible answers to the question why the government does not provide better control are just two: whether it does not hope to do so or does not want to do so. Regardless of which answer is correct, it is clear that improvements are not expected when this is accepted. Abuse will continue and no one will answer for it. In Levica, due to the principle of a positive direction of these laws, we will not oppose them, but we will insist on this, as we have warned now, that the primary control of the infringements must be ensured, and this is a condition that not only changes you are entering today but that sanctions, penalties and prohibitions already defined in our laws will be taken into account in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u16	Dear President, Secretary of State, other guests, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we estimate that the law is useful and necessary, so we will also confirm it. Let me mention some of the most important things that this bill brings. This is about the transposition of the second part of Directive 2012/17/EU, the integration of European business registers and what is most important for the Slovenian market and the business environment, but upgrading or updating I know the points because we know from the analysis that this solution has brought about improvements in the business environment and has greatly contributed to reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens and, in particular, for small companies or economic operators, has also brought a certain financial burden. The law also provides for a registry administrator, i.e. Ipes, who will take care of the integration of business registers and provide support to business entities. The system of integration of European business registers into the European business portal increases legal certainty throughout the European Union's internal market, which, last but not least, is getting stronger from day to day, including on the basis of the common European trade policy, thereby increasing legal certainty and reducing the chances of economic crime. Data will be available on the European portal, on the e-Justice platform, where a search engine will also be established to allow access to data from economic operators or capital companies and certain disclosures. However, I would like to point out what has not yet been said today that, unfortunately, we cannot expect all the data and all the disclosures from all the members of the European Union to be free of charge. It's not like that. Certain data and certain disclosures will be available against payment. We know that improving the support environment is of paramount importance as well as legal certainty. We therefore expect that Ipes and everyone responsible will ensure that this base is maintained, that it actually serves its purpose, as we expect it to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on the Court Register after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u18	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! Apparently, we will continue to spend some time together today when we consider a package of judicial laws. It is right for us to start with one which, in view of the previous developments on the committees and also in view of the consideration of the previous law, will not be the focus of the debate. However, it is not a marginal or less important change. If today you will confirm the law that the Government brings before you, along with the amendments to the Business Register Act, which you have just concluded, then you have made an important step towards greater transparency of the business environment and strengthening legal security in Slovenia. Among other things, a legal basis will be laid for the integration of the Slovenian Business Register and the up-to-date exchange of data with the business registers of the European Union's Single Economic System into a single system. Through the European web portal, it will be possible to search for data and access certain documents on capital companies and their branches set up in other countries as well. This, which is specific to the law, unlike the previous law you have dealt with, and the amendments to the Judicial Register Act are to build on the previous amendment of the Judicial Register-F Act, with regard to free access to the Court Register online about everything, including insight into the participation of natural and legal persons in connected persons. According to the domestic statement, the new website of Apes will be designed to provide an overview of the entity’s registration in the Court Register, for example, companies, including data and links to an overview of the involvement of founders, shareholders, representatives or supervisory members in related business entities. In the view of the Government, we will take an important step forward towards greater transparency in the functioning of business operators and the integrity of the Slovenian business environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u19	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Justice is, as has already been said, at its 41st session. 9. Considered a proposal for amendments to the law as the parent body. In the introduction, the Minister presented, as today, the basic solutions to the law, expressed in principle only by the Secretary-General of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia, in view of the proposed extension of responsibility to notaries in the application for registration in the Court Register. Otherwise, without discussion, the Committee has adopted the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 15 and, in view of the amendment adopted, has also drawn up an updated text of the law which is before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u22	Good morning, everyone! The proposed amendments and additions to the Judicial Registry Act, which we are considering today, offer the possibility of easier access to the Court Registry and access to the judicial registers of other members of the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we welcome the proposed legislation on access to other countries' judicial registers, but we expect personal data protection to be provided. There has been a lot of talk about this, and the fact is that in other areas too, due to the so-called protection of personal data, we have quite a problem. In the course of the hearing, there were many warnings that the solutions, despite facilitating the search for data on persons who are members of different legal entities, were not sufficiently explained from the proportionality point of view of interference with the personal data of the persons examined. We're here to point out possible problems. We also welcome the solution allowing free access to data in the Court Registry. The fact is that the Registry data are already publicly available today, but it is free of charge. Transparency must be ensured, which is undeniable. For the establishment of business entities, each person shall decide on a voluntary basis, in accordance with the pre-known conditions for the establishment of business entities and the expectations that such entity may expect upon entry into business relations. In the light of all the above, we will not oppose the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we will closely monitor the proposed implementation solutions or personal data protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u23	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u24	Dear President, the Minister with the team! As has already been said in the previous hearing, also this time transnational access to court registries and related business registers, makes it possible to improve transparency, transparency and thus improve legal certainty within the business environment. What is crucial in the law that we are currently considering is free access to the Court Register, including information on connected persons both legal and physical. Of course, from the experience of not only Slovenian transitions and from the experience of the last economic crisis, it is extremely important that all business operators, but also all those who deal with legal persons, have the opportunity to look at who their partner is, who they deal with and, above all, who is behind them and how they stand. This should bring new additional quality in our common European economic area. Of course, it is possible to agree with everyone who says that every law, including this, depends primarily on how and to what extent it will be realized and realized in good faith, and on the business environment, not least, depending primarily on those who make it up in the essential part; that is, on its economic operators, on consumers and on the users of services. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u25	The New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u26	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The principle of integrity and fairness in civil and legal relations is a fundamental principle on which business in the economy must also be based. The business of economic operators must be based everywhere on the mutual trust of business partners, and the country must establish and ensure appropriate mechanisms to prevent and sanction abuses. In Novi Slovenija we agree to ensure that everyone has access to the data entered in the register, which is a public book and in which data on companies are entered and legally relevant information about these companies. The principle of the public is one of the basic principles of the Judicial Register Act and the proposal of the Act under consideration today is this principle of application. Access and exchange of data in the system of integration of the Member States' business registers of the European Union is essential, as it is only in this way that users will be able to obtain information free of charge on companies and their branches in other Member States. The European electronic point is needed in terms of public interest, as the security of legal transport is undoubtedly of great public interest. It is also important in terms of ensuring an appropriate business environment for the economy. Therefore, before entering into a business relationship with another entity in another Member State, any information on it, including acts of establishment, members of the management and control authorities and any procedures relevant to the functioning of the company, may be easily verified by any business entity. From this point of view, it is also the responsibility of notaries, in addition to the responsibility of the court, for the legal consistency of the content of the documents published on the Agency’s websites, logical. Notaries must also exercise the utmost care by their primary purpose of operation, as this is a matter of public authority. Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register because we believe that this is a change that will bring more legal certainty to the business environment at Member State level. We are convinced that by entering the business world, where each individual enters voluntarily, the level of privacy of each individual is declining or some of its data becomes more widely accessible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u27	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u28	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The proposed amendment before us follows the right objective. It is a transposition of the directive, it is both within Slovenia and within the European Union, and it is a reform of the system. This will enable us to do what we stand for in modern crime. It is a matter of turning crime into an economy and the very transparency of economic operators is one of the foundations of both prevention and investigation of such crime. This, of course, is a step in this direction, and we still have to strive for greater transparency. What could be negative? It may be negative that the protection of personal data will not be good enough to lead to cybercrime and there is a need for supervision. Since the proposal for amendments is in the right direction, we support it in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u29	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u30	Dear Members and Members and representatives of the Government, a very nice greeting to all! Today we have MEPs and Members as one of the agenda items included in the consideration of the new Law on the Court Register, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption by the National Assembly. The adoption of this novelty took place following a reduced procedure, as the novel covers only less difficult amendments and additions and less difficult harmonisation of the law with other laws or with the legal order of the European Union. As already stated in other parties' views, the proposed amendment partially transposes Directive 2012/17/EU into the Slovenian legal order and thus builds on the legal basis for access and exchange of data in the system of linking the Member States' business registers with the European Economic Area. Together with the amendment of the Act on the Business Register of Slovenia, the system is thus completely renewed All in one place, so-called I know, which represents the whole process and information solutions and ensures that entrepreneurs or partners in one place submit applications, proposals or other applications for the relevant entries in the register, in accordance with the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia and the Law on the Court Registry, and other procedures to be carried out to ensure the conditions of entry into business of the entrepreneur, or of the company, or in relation to subsequent amendments. Since the draft law deletes provisions relating to the regulation of procedures in the system All in one place – which will be subject to the future legal regulation of the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia – nomotechnical alignment of the Law on the Court Registry with the proposed new regulation in the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia is also necessary. Some other solutions are also proposed to ensure that the rules of the Registry are in line with other rules. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think we have a very good system of business registers and a court registry, which is essentially the basis for entering the business register, and in the parliamentary group we believe that this law should also be supported, and that is why we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u31	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. I have a feeling this law is going to lead to a little more debate. The new Criminal Procedure Act, which is before you, has taken a very long way from being created to this day. We put the first draft into public debate more than two years ago, even in the National Assembly almost six months ago, there was a general debate, a public debate and a larger number of committee meetings. It is more than obvious that the views of those who are not lawyers or the CAP do not use or use in their work about the situation in Slovenia in the area of the detection and prosecution of crimes between and within different institutions, among the public, among academic professions, are different and often completely opposite. From the opinions that we already have a good law, that it works in practice and that changes are not necessary and that it is only necessary to give it time to settle down, to the opinions that we should prepare and adopt a completely new law. This debate has been going on for more than 20 years and it does not show that these two views would ever be unified. However, the fact is — and it is likely that everyone in this Chamber would agree — that we have one of the slowest and least effective criminal proceedings. The novel that you have before you is not just the sum of a few articles that have been discussed in the National Assembly in recent months. Unfortunately, there were often only two, three, not more than five articles, many flattened views and flattened opinions. The larger number of important and professionally indisputable solutions was a heated debate, which accompanied the proposal of the novel through the whole process, following false disregards. Some of these solutions are due to the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia; others are based in particular on the experience of practice, but all of them have the basic guidance of the law before you – this is to increase the effectiveness of the building blocks of the judicial system and the police while ensuring the protection of the rights of suspects, defendants and other participants in the proceedings. Contrary to what has been raised several times in the debates so far, we have taken into account the views of the builders of the judiciary and the Legal and Legislative Service when preparing the amendment. This shall be reflected in the amendments adopted by the competent committee. The key solutions remain, however, and are adequately adjusted according to the response of the professional public. In view of the above, I believe that the adoption of today's proposal for the amendment of the law, as it is now before you, will make a significant contribution to modernising the criminal procedure in the Republic of Slovenia. Let us not forget, in this mandate, on the proposal of this Government, on the proposal of this Ministry of Justice, the National Assembly has already confirmed many substantive laws in the field of civil law, organisational law, as well as some amendments in the field of the Penal Code and the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, but is again being established where it is possible to strengthen the rule of law, human rights, the more transparent functioning of detection and prosecution bodies, and the restriction of the abuse of procedural rights of the defence of privileged suspects, accused or convicted persons. This has already been tried by many ministers before me, starting with Minister Sturm - increasingly or less unsuccessful. No reference to the National Assembly and no government has so far succeeded in this systemic breakthrough, which would bring the Slovenian criminal procedure closer to the European criminal procedure. It will be your decision today or Tuesday. If you want to do something to prevent Slovenian criminal proceedings from being one of the slowest in Europe, if you agree that three decisions of the Constitutional Court regarding investigations of law firms, detention and covert investigation measures should be applied. If you believe that it is right for Slovenia to finally do so, even if a small step towards limiting the judicial investigation that is known throughout Europe only in three countries; if you think it is wrong for people with false medical certificates to avoid the summons of a court; if you think that state prosecutors should not reject complaints from supervisory institutions without further justification; if you think it is right to commit complaints before a court that the court does not annul and return to the first stage but only decides; if you think it is right to abolish the so-called official police marks that are specific to the Slovenian criminal proceedings from the brijuni tribe and could also mention, then please confirm the law. The law requires all stakeholders to work more, better and more transparently. If you agree to that, support the law. The law also provides appropriate tools for this work. No solution is pre-constitutionally or conventionally disputed; on the contrary, it is written with consideration and the proposed solutions have passed trials at the European Court of Human Rights in foreign regulations. If business conditions are met, I propose that a third consideration of the bill be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u33	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 40th meeting and 30th emergency meeting and its first meeting, the Justice Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. At the request of the Group of Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Lipicer, first signed on the draft law at the 29th meeting, held a general discussion and decided that he was suitable for further consideration. The Committee on Justice, at the proposal of the SD Group of Ambassadors, also gave a public presentation of the opinions on the proposed law. In view of the fact that, in three parts of their opinions on the law, the drafter, the Legislative and Legal Service, the President of the Supreme Court, the State Council, the Supreme Prosecutor, the Deputy Director-General of the Police, the Bar Association, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and that we have been informed in writing also of the opinion of the Court of Justice and that there is a very extensive record of the public presentation of opinions, allow me only to say about the substantive work that the Members considered that the individual proposed solutions were good, but that some controversial provisions were too problematic to be ignored. In particular, provisions regarding the hearing of witnesses and the possibility of defence have been raised as problematic. At the same time, the Secretary of State of Stara has repeatedly provided additional explanations on the issues raised, the dilemmas raised by the debate. He pointed out that although the proposal for a law had some provisions that individuals and stakeholders considered controversial, it should not give rise to the impression that the proposal was generally bad. He explained, inter alia, that the concept of efficiency in justice covers legality, regularity, quality and timeliness. At the end of the hearing, the Committee on Justice, which was quite long, did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group and the Left Group of Members and proposals for amendments to the Committee of Coalition Groups and the New Slovenia Group of Members to certain articles. At the same time, he did not vote on the amendments of the SDS Group and the Left to a number of articles that have become irrelevant due to the amendments of the Committee. In view of the fairly extensive list of amendments, we have finally adopted all the articles of the law and today the law is in its final form before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u35	Since the Assembly held a general discussion at its 29th meeting on the proposal for a shelter, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments to be tabled on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 May. 9. 2017. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 3 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 113, we will discuss the amendments to these two articles together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 3 and 113 and the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. First of all, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Don't be afraid of the president. There's no reason to be afraid. Look, you've put to the debate these two articles that you've given, which is according to the rules of procedure, so there's no problem. However, one other practice has emerged in this National Assembly. This means that, at the beginning of the discussion, we can still go wider on individual articles. Here, however, the situation is that it is simply not possible to abide by this rule, as you have just said, and to discuss only an article which is bound by an article. Things are completely intertwined. For example, with the so-called partial suspension of the investigation, this is linked to one ten articles, and it is impossible to speak, so I expect Members to be able to discuss it in the way that I mentioned it. It means that at least in the beginning we'll go a little bit wider because of the connection between things. That's all I'm suggesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u37	Given that this is an established practice, I expect these general things here. But where there are links between the articles, you can't stop it, but if it's in relation to that article that we're dealing with at the time. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also take this long-established parliamentary practice into account, and I will also say something in general that I may not have highlighted in the debate so far. I have already expressed my opinion that the Ministry of Justice, in the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, followed comments from practice, from the profession and drafted the Criminal Procedure Act so that there is no longer any doubt that they could adopt it. In view of the fact that it was exposed: they are against, the profession, the court, I don't know who all of them are, and then we also talked about who actually was against it, given that I was called upon to show the paper where the Supreme Court is, that is, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia said that it was essentially a good proposal and expressed the view that it was not opposed to it, a magnetogram of the meeting of the Justice Committee on 13. 6. 2017. In it is Mr Damian Floriančič, as we can read, from which it is evident that he said that the established concept is good, that he is going in a positive direction, that he is going where we really want – I quoted him and you can look at it in a magnetogram. And he also said, quote, “We do not see any particular problem in the introduction of investigative actions that would compensate for the investigation to a certain extent where the investigation is not actually necessary.” If that doesn't mean agreeing with the Criminal Procedure Act as it is here before us, then I don't know what that means. Next. On the same committee was a representative of the police, Mag. Tatiana Bobnar, who also did not express any express opposition to the Criminal Procedure Act. It is important to me that, even before the law was introduced into Parliament, the Ministry of Government has also agreed on this text, if you wish, with the Secretary-General of the Government, and then cannot, or can, express its opposition to the police; but if, here on the Committee on Justice, when we have dealt with the Criminal Procedure Act, it has not expressed it. Many times the claims of the CAP appear to have this, the CAP does not have this – I would really like those who claim that certain provisions are disputed to base their claims on these already amended provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, i.e. the amendments that followed the remarks that some of the provisions may not be harmonised. I would stress the amendment, i.e. the possibility set out in Article 73 of the Criminal Procedure Act, Article 16 of the novel, namely the right of the suspect and the defender to examine before hearing the material chosen for evidentiary purposes; this was one of the indications of public debate and also of the profession that we must ensure this right in defence. I agree with that. This is guaranteed here in this amendment, and if it is ever disputed, or the building of which the police will not give, it is decided by the state prosecutor, which is also his function leading and overseeing the investigation. It is also clear from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights that the police are not in fact obliged to allow defence to look at anything except to explain the reasons for the suspicion and crime of which the individual is accused because the suspect always has the right to defend himself by silence or to refuse to cooperate with the defence and to wait for the trial. This is exactly the ECHR practice. There was a lot, a lot of talk about what the witness was hearing in the pre-trial proceedings and then essentially the basis of these readings is how this case is taken into account as evidence in the judgment, how it is taken into account by the court as evidence. When I studied this matter myself, I looked at the article of the Criminal Procedure Act, completed 148.c. – and please read it. The Court may, however, refer to the suspect's confession, which can also state in the proceedings that he will have advocates and then the police or the prosecutor must suspend the proceedings and ensure that the defence counsel is provided. However, it is important that a suspect's confession may be the basis for individual court decisions if obtained in a new way, i.e. by recording in a pre-trial procedure, but the court must not base its judgment on it. The judgment shall not be based solely on the confession of a suspect who has been brought before a public prosecutor or police without the presence of an advocate. Therefore, only the evidence obtained in the prescribing procedure, even without the presence of an advocate, cannot be the only evidence on which the judgment will be based. The same judgment, second paragraph 148.c., shall not be based solely on the testimony of the witness to the State Prosecutor or the police. I don't see where this fear is, that judgment will now be based exactly on it and that someone is in an unequal position. I've been talking to criminal judges or investigative judges, even if you'd like. There is, of course, a fear of introducing something new. There is always fear in such systems of introducing something new. The President of the Supreme Court also told the Justice Committee that the expert group had made a completely new proposal a few years ago on the Criminal Procedure Act, a new, brand new one to put an end to the investigation. And then there was the revolution again, the opposition from all ends and places. I think that, however, while we all agree that there is a great deal of solution in the proposal to amend the CAP of good ones, it is also necessary to accept this, especially because, even after what was still a very important observation of the Legislative and Legal Service in relation to Article 167, if I am not mistaken, I can never find it in this regard, that the Prosecutor should decide whether or not to initiate an investigation. That's deleted. In part, some investigative actions are in place, which can then replace the actions in the investigation, but by no means does it mean that the investigation is now completely discontinued. This is one step further, with which the Supreme Court also agrees, at least the President of the Supreme Court said so, I said where it was written. We have to take a step forward in this area once. If this step is gradual, we will now do it in this way with the Criminal Procedure Act and I think it is necessary to do so, so I will vote in favour of the CAP in full. But if there's any other amendments that require me to come by, I'll be in touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u39	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, all the difficult changes, especially those that can also bear the reminder of reform, are always accepted, especially in conservative systems such as and must be justice, in some way with a shaking hand and with many questions, dilemmas, which is also right. The process of addressing this law from the general presentation of opinions, the views of the general debate to the debate on the Committee and today shows that it is a matter of law, that it is a law that should really be before us before. Why? Because of the recent period, it has shown, not only in the National Assembly through a number of supervisory commissions, through a number of discussions at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, bank hole investigators that the need for effective and fair prosecution of the most demanding forms of crime in the country is exceptional. That the people who elected us here expect us to end their fundamental frustration; and this is that they feel that the right for some is unforgivable in the country, but some, if I can use a popular thesis now, can play basketball indefinitely because they have friends with doctors, such and other. Allow me to begin by assessing that if this law were, in the way that it was submitted today, with all the corrections that took place in the process, adopted before ownership, before the banking crisis, in Slovenia, we would never have 26% of youth unemployment and in Slovenia would never have the need to recapitalise the banking system with billions of dollars so that in all other machinations within bankruptcy procedures I do not even speak. The generation I belong to may have been stolen from an important part of the opportunity because of the decline in the instruments to which this law belongs, and the possibility of making a significantly greater leap than the generation that today creates the main new jobs, technological innovation and export opportunities for this country has also created. If I focus on the law itself in general. Of the 145 articles, 5 are problematic. Problemsome in a way because they bring something new, because they are going in an important part to end the judicial investigation, which is, if you read either the political party programmes that we are represented here, or the expert opinion, in fact the common goal is more or less everything. So since it is an assessment that it is probably impossible to do so overnight, it is now a problem to follow steps, legitimately and correctly; but a step forward needs to be done. Just as a number of concerns can be understood, for example, Dr. Gorenak at the point, whether it is right for a police officer who commits a crime outside the time of his profession to be treated by a fellow police officer. I can agree with his thesis that this is not the wisest. I can also agree with those who say that the policeman is only a citizen and that he also has the right to "civil treatment". But these are details that make it impossible for me to reject this law alone because there are at least 140 articles that I think are extremely good and that are important — important! – improving the effectiveness of prosecution of the most serious crimes; once again, I stress the crimes that have cost this country at least one year's budget. What could we do with him? We had to adopt an intervention law – 136 million to prevent the bankruptcy of hospitals, so that we do not fall out as a third world country that cannot provide its citizens and citizens with penicillin. I dare to say that this is because, either on purpose or because of the lack of political will and will to proceed with this process, the previous authorities of such changes of law, as they are before us today, did not want and were not able or willing to propose. Finally, let me highlight a moment from a public presentation of opinions that I think is crucial. He was similar in the consideration of the Law on State Lawyery – so far, the State's Attorney's Office. That is, “this law will bring new case law, many changes will be required under this law, new education, even additional work, and this will require time and adaptation...” If this is the problem, then the laws of the Kingdom of SHS or the system without law could also remain in place because changes require adjustments, the new law necessarily brings new case law, and the National Assembly should ultimately decide whether the concerns of the adoption of a law are strong enough that the whole law must be rejected. Both the Social Democrats' Group and I personally estimate that, with all the sayings that we want the Icelandic model of prosecution of banking crime, that, with all the sayings, that the transition of ownership was something we don't want and we can't repeat anymore, there is simply no other option than to confirm this law, and that, in the area of prosecution of the most serious crime, our country at the end of the day also sets up a mirror and tells itself that some changes have to be made and, although difficult and even for many people, I cannot imagine that, at the end of the day, it would be logical that the official badge of the police is better than the record of witnessing in the presence of a lawyer if it is to be used as evidence. Dear Minister, I believe that the law will still be confirmed in this session or even today. Colleagues and colleagues, we have spent at least three very interesting, substantively full sessions together, so I thank you and look forward to further reform laws, which will be at least as brave and as bold as this one, because Slovenia needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u41	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I too will go a little wider first, but one brief link to the previous speaker, Mr Škobernet. First this one, then the general one. When you were talking about the crimes where the suspects were cops. It is true that this dilemma arises whether a police officer is just an ordinary citizen or has a slightly different position in these proceedings, but it has already been decided by the European Court of Human Rights, which is in the Republic of Slovenia there in 2005 or 2006, I do not know, in the case of Rehbock, or as it has already been, that the Republic of Slovenia has clearly decided that the system is not in place to deal independently with police offences. Therefore, in 2007, we adopted a provision that I, as Secretary of State at the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, objected to – i.e., we adopted a provision that all crimes committed by suspected police officers in or outside the office would be dealt with by a special section of the prosecution. However, I objected because there are few such or no such systems in Europe; everyone has either some restrictions on work, or restrictions on human rights, police tasks or the like, I will say, or other restrictions, but not that they are treated for everyone. That was the reason I objected. But what was done today — I welcomed the minister’s announcement that this article would change, even after his presentation in the National Assembly, because a change was needed. But what has now been done is contrary to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of the year, I do not know, 2005, 2006. In the clear! Of course, it's the opposite, and you think what you want. Rather, the present article is written this way — read what the present article says. For example, a policeman – now I will give a completely hypothetical case – who goes to the store, gives one product in his pocket, a sandwich, say, forget to pay it, the prosecutors of the special department treat it on condition that it was at work and in service time. When the same policeman kills his wife at home — again a hypothetical case — he is being treated by a fellow police officer and not a prosecutor. This is totally contrary to judgment! While we have tabled an amendment that binds things to what the Minister has tied up, it is said to be the performance of the duties of the police, the exercise of powers and the service, but adds to all the crimes committed at leisure for which the sentence of imprisonment has been prescribed for more than a year. Do you think that makes sense? Okay, let's just leave it, it's just a complement to you and your thinking about it. When it comes to this law, one very clear question must be asked – who supports this law in the Republic of Slovenia? If we release citizens; the average citizen does not deal with this and then the consequences come to him. But once again, I ask the question: Who supports this law? Let's go in one order. When we had our first hearing, Mrs Korenjak appeared before us, who had some presentation of her delegation's position and was quite critical. It also took place, as I recall, Mrs Murgel, who was also quite critical. Quite critical were these onset, "we'll study, we'll see, we'll see, that, that..." But what happened next? You now claim that the President of the Supreme Court supports. No, the President of the Supreme Court does not object; he used that word; but only after you have written an amendment concerning the work of the Supreme Court directly. Otherwise, it is necessary to say very clearly, very clearly – I am now speaking more because of the minutes than because of the voting machine you are going to perform anyway. But maybe one day the Constitutional Court will be looking at a record; maybe, I don't know. As soon as anything happens to this law, courts often send an article to the Constitutional Court and so forth. That's why I'm talking about this right now. Since then, those very critical debates that you and the coalition MPs have had to date – what, in fact? Several articles were amended, some amendments were corrected, one for the better, one for the worse. For example, the police officer situation is catastrophically worse, and the original text of the minister was better than it is now. It's worse now. It is now even past the ECHR decision in that particular case. We have carried out a public presentation of the opinions against this law. That's why I'm asking who's up for it. Against: The U.S. Attorney's Office, the Department of Investigation and Prosecution of Officials with Special Powers, i.e. Police, was also against Mojca Gruden. The solicitor's office, the president acted against it. The State Council – against. The Association of Advocates of Slovenia is against. The most important entity against – Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Her representative is at the last reading of this law on Committee 5. 9. Otherwise, she only said one sentence. She said, “We remain in our arguments.” If you go back to what their arguments are, you find that they are completely against the law. I'm not going to talk publicly about what these people have told me because I want to protect their integrity. But something like that, those who have been working there for a long time have not seen or experienced such rapes of their professionalism — but you know. Let's move on. Who else is against it? Association for Informatics and Telecommunications at the Economic Chamber. Why? Because you hung them up, they have to judge when they'll inform the police when they don't, and the prosecution. But they don't want it, they're not trained, and they shouldn't if you ask me. Here are three professors of three law schools! This is not Ljubo Bavcon, who changes from that hate speech that he once committed a crime for, but then became a serpent, and became some chairman of the Human Rights Committee in the 1990s, but they are people who are 40 years old. These are the professors who have been raised by this country in the period since its independence and have a European view of this. They have a European view of this! This is Dr. Primož Gorkič, Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Professor Anže Erbežnik, European Faculty of Law, co-worker of the Committee on Justice of the European Parliament, professional staff working in this field. And of course Professor Zlatko Dežman, Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor. I mean, I don't know them, I only know one of these three, but I know that it's some younger generation of people who aren't connected right now because they're teaching at the same university, but it's about people who are learning criminal law in three different colleges. They're clearly against it! That's right. Especially the termination of a so-called court investigation, which I will return to. Next. Who else is against it? In the first stage of the public presentation of opinions in a slightly milder form, which is understandable if Minister Floriančič has set up there, when it is logical that you do not object to him at all. But he was pretty up against it here at the public hearing. Tatiana Bobnar - Police. I talked to the cops yesterday, if you want, who use it every day. And don't say that you can. They're clearly against it. Next, the Special Prosecutor's Office, Mrs Darja Šlibar – v. Judge Andrej Sedej Grčar – v. Last but not least, you know what's funny – the members of the anti-counsel coalition. Now the viewers didn't understand me. I know you're against it, and I'm aware you know that. When you say "Klemenčič rapes us to disability" in the hallway when there are no cameras. Yes, then, "refuse" and "refuse" you. It's okay. Look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u43	Expressions, expressions, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u44	From the trial, I said, "Don't get upset." See, as far as the investigation is concerned, I am alone within the SDS as well as publicly, in the discussions – here were some questions sent to the minister – supported the suspension of the judicial investigation. Support stop the trials – I repeat. But I'm gonna have something to say, and I'm gonna back off, and I'm gonna say I wasn't right if someone convinced me to. The opinions of all these three professors I mentioned earlier, three law schools, they convinced me and convinced me. The Minister did not propose the abolition of the judicial investigation as a whole, as envisaged in the 2008 draft law prepared by Professor Sturm, but he did some intermediate solution; a little so, little so. A little judicial investigation is over, but it's almost over. It's not up to prosecutors, little criminals, and so on. That's -- you know what it's called when you mix everything up when you throw everything in a pot and you burn it? This is a ministra that neither criminals nor prosecutors will know how to use. But it's going to hurt people. Another issue, a trend in Europe, I have repeated this myself because the Minister will take out some of my magnetogram from the past years, a trend in Europe is the abolition of judicial investigations. Many countries, except the country of the Balkans, have abolished this. But these young professors have equipped me with some knowledge, if you like, with some of the latest things that are happening in this area and convinced me that both France and Germany have already taken a step back and are reintroducing a judicial investigation. Why? Because they have found that especially for the worst crimes, it is imperative that you have a prosecutor and a criminal on one side who does so with his hand in hand, which is right, and that you have on the other side of a suspect who knows nothing for five years what those two strikes are. And in the sense of a judicial investigation – these two, the prosecutor, the criminalist – have to give things to the investigating judge in one way or another, who, however, is a guarantor after as much as I will say, the legality of this proceedings. Now I have to say this. These people I spoke to, i.e. the professors of these three colleges, also make it very clear: Slovenia is not ready for anything like this at all. But the police and the prosecution system is not ready to do this because it is too much of an abuse today; even though it will, they warn us if we have this predictive procedure so unbalanced that you have a prosecutor, a criminalist on one side and, on the other hand, a suspect who doesn't even know that there's something going on behind his back. He doesn't even know something's happening to him at home. Therefore, I would point out that the solution envisaged in this area is not at all bad, because it partially shuts down and does not partially suspend the investigation. In fact, I was happy to say that when we were preparing the amendments ourselves, I must say that we were also going in the direction of deleting these articles, which are doing this judicial investigation, a little so. The United Left then tabled amendments that actually answer that question and, of course, remove the so-called interim situation when the investigation is or is not, or is only on prosecutors and police officers. That is why we, in public, say all those articles of the United Left, which are not politically close to us – but you know, I do not have a list in front of me that says what I have to vote on, as is usually the coalition where it says "yes" or "no", "yes" or "against" – but that is why the amendments of the United Left will be fully supported, at least by those concerning this area. As an interesting thing, maybe one more thing in the introductory part is that I don't waste too much time. I have before me an article on the foundation of criminal law – a collateral victim of technocracy and the fight against crime. This is a wonderful article, wonderful; this is an article that appeared in 2008, 13. 10. published: GV Publishing, Company and Work, number 67, pages 1410-1419, which expressly, explicitly opposes the solutions we have in this law. You want to know who the author of this article is? Mag. Goran Klemenčich! So, what happened to him in eight years? Probably what Prof. Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič says: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u45	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! First of all, I think we need to do some distinction. The coalition has been in some way insisting on a binary role, whether the law is good or bad in its entirety, without details without nuances. I think this needs to be stressed, too, my colleague Škoberne said earlier, that five articles of 145 may be somewhat controversial because they are new or introduce some news. It's not like that. These five articles are quite controversial and so controversial that we need to talk about them, not some bits, some little things that are completely lost and not important. We have also been critical in Levika from the very beginning to the law, but we have never said that certain changes that are being introduced are certain solutions given by this law that are not good, for example. Let me count them. Some are good, they are needed, they are justified; from allowing the use of covert investigation measures against criminal associations dealing with profit-making at the expense of animal torture, for example, better regulation on medical excuses – we know this is a very difficult matter for us – assistance to victims of crime, a separate opinion, protection of a journalist's source and so on. These are the solutions that we support in Levica, are unconditionally in place and must be contained in marriage. But the knelt is just in these fragments, in these five articles of these 145, which are just some novelty and the novelty is what causes resistance. It is not new what causes resistance; what causes resistance is what brings these news. I mean, these are unacceptable things, I will not repeat who opposed them all, what was the opinion of the ZPS, which – I agree with this – has not changed. At the last meeting of the Committee, when this hearing was completed, it was really very eloquent of what was the opinion of the ZPS that their reservations remained. And we know what the reservations were when the opinion of the ZPS came into being; therefore, some of these provisions are even potentially constitutionally disputed. That's why we tabled certain amendments in Levica. We are talking about the introduction of the possibility of a hearing without the presence of an advocate, that it may limit the view of the collected evidence, that it is lowering or setting low standards for the use of disguised investigative measures, that it is too low and questionable also to monitor communications or telecommunications and so on. What's at these points, in these five articles, if you want to call them that, is problematic, is that the way in which the criminal proceedings are going to take place is actually changing. Our view is that these changes will bring a great deal of weight to what is happening before, to the premonition process, to the fact that just because of these few trinkets, these five potentially controversial articles are going to be happening practically things that we can see in Hollywood movies, and I don't think I'm overreacting. I am talking about opening up a major problem in such a system and a major problem which is basically social. My argument is that in such a way, we will achieve only one thing by making such changes — that procedures will not be speeded up at the expense of those major criminals, at the expense of those who can afford many lawyers, the large firms that advocate them, but will eventually be hit by so-called small thieves or even those who are not guilty. What I'm talking about is that the big weight is going to be right in the predictive process, not, as my colleague Murgel said, it's not going to happen to these guards at all, but something that we can call systemic violence is going to happen. A person at a hearing at the pressure of what authority is, what the police represent, what it represents, what it can follow in court and so on, simply if he does not have enough knowledge, if he does not have the money for lawyers, if he does not have the money to deal with legal matters practically throughout his life, can simply give up the burden of this systemic violence. Allow yourself to admit guilt at that time and, of course, to seal up your continuation. Of course, then it will be no problem to find some more evidence and complete the story. We do know, however, that this is not a suitable protector, that there is no adequate legal protection and that these things are controversial. I think we need to insist on what the criticisms were, and very serious and clear warnings from our legislative and legal services. The fact that the five articles are controversial, I don't think there's a reason for being stubborn. Once again, the law brings good solutions, some things that are absolutely necessary, in addition to the beginning of the prosecutions and courts to work in some way more engaged and better prosecute crime on the basis of laws that allow it to do so today. We have tabled amendments that eliminate these fragments, as you call them, these few little controversial provisions that are disputed because they are new — no! They are contentious because they are dangerous because they open doors, and they are difficult, for potential abuses, and especially in order to speed up procedures, absolutely, but we insist that they hurry at the expense of those who do not have sufficient legal knowledge or lawyers. Thus, our amendments try to correct some points of controversy that are totally unacceptable. I suggest that we all think about it together and that we understand them as well-intentioned, because we do not want to break this law, not the minister, but we try, as always, to look at the matter with sound mind; to look at what are also different opinions. From a public presentation of opinions to other public debates on this law, it has been made clear that things are not working or will not work in this law. The opinions of the three lawyers mentioned above from all three law schools in Slovenia are also likely to point to some section of the fact that it is not an ideological political issue, but it is a very practical professional question why these things cannot work. That's how I insist on it from this point of view. If I paraphrase, Minister: if you want the poor to be convicted immediately, it is said, by swift procedure and without counsel, on the other hand, you want the tycoons to remain free and avoid, then support this law in such a form. Otherwise, if you want those who are actually responsible to begin, those who are somehow the bearers of this great crime, then delete those changes that we are proposing with our amendments. This is the only way to ensure at least approximately balanced treatment in these cases, or this, of course, will be a quick procedure at the expense of the participants' material situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u47	Procedural mag. Alexander Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. It is clear and logical that we have different opinions and differing views in Parliament on individual proposals for laws, but in view of the previous implementation of my opposition colleagues, I ask you, Madam President, to somehow protect the integrity of Members and of the ministry. In fact, it was said that when the cameras went out, that members of the coalition approached the minister or the minister raped them with this proposal and so on, I believe that I have never had such experience myself. [[…]] There were a lot of conversations, talks and meetings, so we cleared up the provisions of the laws of this and of which other, but in this way I do not think such a discussion is appropriate. Please invite Members to a patient discussion or invite them to say what they are talking about or to reveal those names that have been said if that is true. I do not have this experience alone, and I have never felt that the Minister would have this effect on Members. I ask you kindly to teach others about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u49	During the talk I immediately reacted to the word that was too much. My friend Gorenak put her in a concoction. This is not enough, but I would ask that we avoid such words. But that's when he fixed it right away. So I think that this warning, along with what happened, is quite appropriate. Procedurally, I presume? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Chairman. I wouldn't have called in procedurally, but I have to. Mr. Vinko Gorenak put some stuff in the slips, and we all saw it. A procedural warning has been given to the patient debate. President, please, we don't have double standards. That we don't have double standards! In this hall, I have heard that I am a five - cyclone, that I am harmful to this country, and that I am dangerous to this country, but there was no warning, respected. I think these are much harder words coming from the largest coalition party. Dangerous for the state! By being elected to these elections and by being followed by a large number of voters as well as a party as a whole! I think it is right that we continue in some normal patient debate, but that we are only objective and to warn Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u51	I think that the debate so far took place relatively well, given what they are and that this last procedurally was also partly unnecessary because I had reacted before. [[…]] But, it is not that important at this point, it is important that we continue to discuss and not continue on a procedural basis. First of all, the Minister of Justice of the Magi has the word. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. In the beginning – I will be absolutely out of touch – I will start by answering some of the questions that have been raised. First, to the very clear question that Dr. Gorenak legitimately began: Who supports this law? Words can be interpreted very differently. Dr. Gorenak is on the board, and he's still out of context today, or else he's saying things that don't fit the truth, and I'll tell you why. Maybe that's how he sees them — that's legitimate too. There's something I'd like to say first. In law such as criminal proceedings, we will never join together into a single voting machine, but I don't think in Parliament, all the key stakeholders. The law, such as criminal proceedings, is by its very nature a contradictory law. If a police officer, a prosecutor, a judge and a lawyer agree on the same thing, it is only when nothing changes. I also spoke about this in a public debate and have accumulated quite a few angers of individual, we will say, reference points that so far controlled amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which, as it is, after 25 years at least changed from the whole of the former Yugoslavia, because this law was done differently for the first time. A working group of electors was not set up to agree on everything, then put it on the table for the Minister of Justice and then go through Parliament. With young people, with individual people – as I say, from production – we also prepared a law that was too ambitious to be published two years ago online, with a lot of cooperation from young prosecutors, young judges, people from college. And then it started. There were many contradictions, legitimate ones, and we listened. I know you like to point out how stubborn I am, so I'm going through the wall with my head. I'm stubborn and I'm proud of it sometimes, but here we've listened and we've retreated to the extent to which we thought we actually had a lot of arguments on our side. Finally, this was acknowledged by various stakeholders. Today you did not say that, for example, the Ombudsman objected to the law, even though it was the lightmotive of the leader of your delegation, Jožeta Tanka, who, with a procedural proposal, held the debate on the law at the emergency meeting just before the holidays, where he was always stressing – these are facts, here I have a copy of the magnetogram – saying how the law even talks about the violation of the inviolability of housing in secret house investigations, which is simply not in the law, and how the Ombudsman has great concerns. The official position of the Ombudsman, which is also available in your information system and has already been made available at the time and has already been presented in a public presentation of opinions, is only a fact that no SDS members were present in this presentation within four hours. She said, “We especially welcome any legal change that strengthens the situation of victims of crime and vulnerable groups.... ” All right, you also said that you agree, "and also all others who aim to improve the effectiveness of the criminal procedure and to address identified shortcomings in the regulation of criminal proceedings in order to ensure greater legal certainty and legality. I am particularly pleased to note that some of our suggestions we made in considering concrete initiatives have also been taken into account.... ” Then he criticises individual articles, not those that you are exposing today as a decrease in the rights of the suspect, because, in our opinion, they agree with us that this is not the case. You're saying the President of the Supreme Court has stepped down. It's not against the law. Some of this has already been read by a colleague of Murgle's, but on the 28th Justice Committee. 6. 2017 President of the Supreme Court, who was a career criminal judge who participated in the drafting of the law with various ministers, including Minister Sturm, was often frustrated at how they united themselves about some of the changes that were necessary and then came interests. And the interests of lawyers on the one hand, the interests of the police on the other hand, the interests of prosecutors on the third hand, and nothing has changed. And those who attended this session can remember, and I will now read directly what he said: “If, at the conclusion of these coordinations and on the basis of what we now have before us, we ask ourselves whether the Criminal Procedure Act would be better or worse, it is my opinion that it would be better. I can also say that some of the new developments brought by law in the case of our Criminal Procedure Act are in fact proposed with great delay, because comparable European Union countries already have a majority of similar solutions, so that we seem to have somehow stepped in and followed a few years of delays in the direction of these necessary amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act." This was followed, after we had already had the amendments prepared, by a meeting of the Justice Committee, which presented the annual report of the state prosecutors, at which the new Attorney General of Sketa also made a statement on the law for the first time. He was also referred to by the head of the specialized state prosecutor Harry Furlan. Both of them directly welcomed the solutions in the law, which, interestingly, were voted by 75 Members present in this National Assembly when you discussed the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry on the abuse of the banking system, led by SDS Member Ange Logar. And who, on my part, I think, page 321 – I have read this so many times that I already know if I have made a mistake, I apologize – explicitly states that they expect the government and the Ministry of Justice to provide evidence to the witnesses and suspects under certain conditions, of course, given before the police when they change the law. Why? Because it is not a country in Europe that OK, I do not know how they have in Albania, but comparatively it is not a serious country in Europe that would not guarantee this under certain conditions that the law, this was once again a group proposal, a proposal by this investigative group of your Member who received plebiscite support in this assembly. [[…]] And we took it very seriously. I even joked a little at the time — I didn’t joke, because we rarely joke, this side, we have to admit it. When I asked Dr. Logar once when he said when we were going to bring this into the marriage, I said, but maybe you snuggled this from our proposal, which was already on the CAP website and that's what's left in there – easier access to bank data. All of this is in marriage – today is the most problematic! Who supports this law? Police. I don't know, Dr. Gorenak, who you were talking to. You're lucky I never have. You often say: I went from the National Assembly to the radio and in the meantime met three constitutional judges who told me what they thought I was going to do then – just the last time he called me Say, you also wrote that they told you – I hope this will not go through because the facts are – : Klemenčič has already compiled the service of the European State Prosecutor’s Office. [[…]] [[…]] Four people told you that in Brussels, either three. You wrote that. Then I'm agreed there – none of this is true. Now that we're going to what's true [[…]] Oh, and the Bar. This law has been well coordinated with the Bar. We haven't done a job on them. We sat at a number of meetings and walked across the street from her. In the other part, but not in those parts. Even so, we followed them completely in the case of the work concerning the decision to implement the constitutional decision to investigate law firms, and in the case of covert investigations, we followed them to a large extent. During the last legal days in Nova Gorica, when this law was also discussed, the number of praises for the amendment of this law was the same as the strong criticism. We're not all the same, and we can't agree. Do you know when, last time in this House, we were extremely broad in our agreement on the law proposed by the Ministry of Justice? When we had the Mutuality Act here. To be honest, it was a special feeling for me in a way of sadness and joy. It was a marriage that doesn't change anything. We had to make a difference because of the European Union. But it concerns exactly ten people about a year. There were no interest groups, of course, it was cohesively 100% and all the parliamentary groups you said, great, support it, it is not problematic. Of course, because there's no contradiction. The D.A.'s office, as it were, is a specialized state prosecutor. Yeah, Special Branch had a problem. The amendment, which Dr. Gorenak considers to be worse, was in line with them after that public debate. I'll get back to that. You have pointed out several times: three young professors. I think that's what you're stressing, so that no one will think they're Bavcon's professors -- because you said that once in a while here. I'm glad you think of yourself as a young man by heart, but these are not three young professors, but I respect each of them in one way or another, but one of them is the year 1951. Because you said that you talked to all three of them in person — yes? That's how I knew you were communicating with them. They are not three young professors; one is an honorary professor, whom I also respect, Ange Erbežnik, whom I have known for a very long time. His position has been clear for many years: he opposed every novelty of the CAP, including the system that tried to completely change and end the investigation. This is his legitimate position – but I will not be doing conspiracy theories now because you all won yesterday – but also the favourite of the SDS was the Constitutional Judge, one of the two whom you said you would support, and Dr. Jaklič was Dr. Erbežnik. Dr. Gorkič, by the way, participated in the drafting of this law, put a lot of criticism on it and gave a lot of good initiatives, which is why I think that marriage is better in one part. In one part, however, he did not agree with the solution, but with that first solution that we then changed. It is therefore unfair to abuse his name or even the name of not so young Dr. Dežman that he has the same attitude as Erbežnik toward this law. But you do have others, and he's an expert in this field and Dr. Selinski. Yes, you will say, and these are your friends – they were involved in this marriage. I mean, professors always have different opinions, and that's legitimate. Next thing. You can't take one of my articles so casually and say that today is exactly what he wrote. That's not true! We can take the floor through this law — I do not hold back from introducing what I was then opposed to today. As it is not clear that one of my articles in Youth from a number of years ago, which has also been quoted, I think that on the side of the Left on one of the committees when the then government introduced a hearing before the police in the presence of a lawyer, with an advocate. I wrote an article, Stay Quiet — and So On — they said, and now you are introducing what you were criticizing. That article criticised that solution precisely because it was not complete because it gave the opportunity of good defence to precisely those who took a lawyer, took a richer lawyer, and did nothing about what happened to tens of thousands of people in that country in criminal and predictive procedures that did not have lawyers. What we are changing today is that if the police hear them without a lawyer, they must write a record, not an official note, and the interview must be recorded, not an official note for later. So much for who supports this law. I also regret that there have been extremely few professional discussions in this house by the opposition, which is the loudest in the sense that it opposes it. Although I'm closer to them anyway, the Left was making arguments. Dr. Gorenak, of the 150 members of the current debate, not today, you discussed four or five articles in the current debate. Public presentation of opinions 13. 6. 2017 lasted 3 hours and 22 minutes. The number of SDS members at this meeting – nothing. The amount of time spent by members of the SDS, including other members of the opposition, is nothing. Justice Committee 28. 6. 2017 – the meeting lasted three and a half hours. Joint intervention of SDS members for 25 minutes, of which two-thirds of the work of Goran Klemenčič's character and work, and the rest with three articles of the law. Justice Committee 30. 6. 2017 – duration of a good hour. Mr Tanko, if I may use his words to tell me when he left the hall when he said: "If we shoot you, we must shoot you well," he spoke for an hour about procedural matters and nothing about the law. In the meantime, the law also includes non-constitutional matters, the inviolability of housing and so on. Justice Committee 5. 9. 2017 – one hour and 15 minutes. Interventions by Members 15 minutes: 5 minutes for the law, 10 minutes for Goran Klemenčič. Under the line. If I do not count the first reading and general discussion, this paper was discussed in an open debate on this novel for more than 10 hours, of which there were no members of the opposition at all at the public hearing, while others discussed the contents of the law together for about 13 minutes. So let me take the fact that when you say these solutions are bad, these solutions are bad, the law is bad, and there is a lot of solutions inside that you have proposed, and I agree with them; both with regard to the demands for increased prosecution and prosecutorial control, and with regard to greater efficiency in the prosecution of economic crime. Dr. Gorenak, you also told me that the professors convinced you that you no longer support the termination of the investigation, that we are not stopping the investigation, but again the truth is clearly not your ally in this part. You said she was reintroduced in France, I quote you, France is the cradle of a court investigation and has never been terminated and will never be terminated. You said they were rethinking or reintroducing in Germany. This is ridiculous and unrealistic, unless something happened yesterday. This is not true and can be Googled and you will not find one professional or political article to do so. You said that, except in the Balkan countries, most of the investigations were shut down. I am correcting you, except for the Republic of Slovenia, all Balkan countries have already discontinued the investigation. You said that the President of the Bar and gave an opinion at the public hearing – the President of the Bar was not at the public hearing. You said that the Society of Advocates gave a negative opinion – the Society of Advocates did not take part in the presentation of opinions because they are not concerned with the CAP. And unfortunately, I could still perform so beautifully. You also said that Boštjan M. Zupančič said that I had changed. We're all changing. You've changed, too. If you hadn't, I'd probably still be a member of the Communist Union. Now I am going to the next matter; a matter that is of greater importance – the rights of the suspect. The position also represented by the United Left has been highlighted and I know that we have concerns in the coalition as well as among SMC Members that this measure will, under strict conditions, reduce the rights of suspects and, in particular, affect financially weaker suspects. Seriously, we were seriously discussing this and listening to the search for solutions. We have a lot of arguments that the current system of Slovenian criminal proceedings on the one hand is extremely unfair to poorer individuals and disproportionately benevolent to individuals who have the ability, ability and money to make use of all legal means. No Polde or Bajric, for example, goes to jail as far as someone who went to jail yesterday or the day before. None. And we're one of the few countries that allows so many degrees. And by the way, if we hadn't passed the law on our proposal in this national assembly, then it probably hasn't happened to the one before yesterday. And then this side of the SDS said that this law was unconstitutional, that we were writing it because of the Bavčar. By the way, this law was already before the Constitutional Court and it was confirmed by the Constitutional Court. So we have a very unbalanced criminal procedure. On the one hand, if you're in court, you don't have an investigation or a lawyer, you go from A to B; the police usually don't have a conversation with you. But if you have a lawyer from the beginning, you have a procedure in which it is possible to delay the procedure to disability almost. We are addressing many of these problems, on a proposal from the courts, even to reduce the accumulation of legal remedies in the investigation and so on, where possible, to go to any decision of the investigating judge to the external hearing of the three judges, then to the Supreme Court. That is why Slovenian procedures take so long! People are interrogated three times. Only in Slovenia. Injurers, victims, the police first question them – it is not called a hearing because they cannot do so, but the police, of course, speak to the injured person, then the investigating judge, and also at the main hearing. Memories are lost in the middle, there are pressures or it's simply victimization. Today, we will say, people without lawyers are in the worst position, in our opinion, in the police process. Why? Because the police, if they talk to you – and Dr. Gorenak knows exactly that – do not write a record, they write an official UZ note. Do you know when the U.S. was created? After the brionic spoils, when Tito Rankovic stopped and we still couldn't cut it. There was a lot of theory about that, too. They write UZ; UZ writes a police officer; it can write a little bit in the opposite, usually written after the interview — a unilateral record of the conversation, but it goes into the file. It remains in the judicial file — if the person was previously taught to have his rights and influence over the judge. At the same time, it is not the primary evidence, so the defense can't say it back later, and I'd like to challenge it because it's not the evidence. Witness — the same! The U.S. on collecting notices, a police officer writes this unilaterally and can, under certain conditions, even be evidence. It suits the police in one way because they're used to doing it because they give their visions and so on, it suits lawyers because lawyers don't want to go to the police. You mentioned American films earlier. I don't want to Americanise our procedure either, but I want those Americanisations of our procedure, which they already have in Germany today, and in England in France, and that is that lawyers, by official duty or whatever, come to the hearing before the police. We don't have to do this because they know it's not going to be used because it's not being recorded and so on. What do we propose today? We propose what they have, without exception – with the footnote that I can be wrong that some country in Europe has it, but not according to the conduct of our professional services and professions, as you read the articles – the police can question an individual. There will be no official markings, it will have to write a record that will have to be signed by the other party. The other side, of course, the defense, the defendant has always the opportunity to remain silent, disagree. This is going to be filmed. And if and under very strict conditions, this can also be used as evidence. But he can't be the only proof. The same is true of the witness. I could go into more detail. I want to tell you that, as much as you believe me or don't believe me, the fact is, for 20, 30 years, in some countries after 5 years, there have been other countries. Their constitutional courts – they survived the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Why do some oppose them? It's logical, but I don't think anything bad about the police, but it requires much more professional and transparent work of law enforcement. Because if you can unilaterally write an official note about an interrogation, or if the judge is going to watch you question it, that's the difference. For this transparency and openness, you get some very important tool, and that's that what you got in the premonition process, if you did it well, transparently and professionally, will be evidence in court. And then it won't happen that a reference at a bank that said to the investigators of the NPU, "Yes, they called me," two years later, when she has to come to court, she said, "I don't remember that anymore." That's what's going on. Then another thing that is very important: restrictions look at the file on the police side. That was also the case. And we are aware that there is no such right today. There is no provision in the CAP to allow the defence to look into the file. We introduced it with certain restrictions, as foreign countries do, because it is such an initial phase of the procedure that the police, of course, cannot give the suspect or someone else everything in advance before the indictment comes. I would just like to stress this once again because it has been repeatedly said that this provision is problematic. Today, too, Dr. Gorenak, I believe he knows that there are no legal rights to look into the police file at all. And we're bringing her in. Of course, again in a way that makes her weigh more. I'm talking about trying the balance we were looking for. These are not some of my whims, but actually an attempt to move this process forward and do what in some way not only the public but also the profession expects us to do. I know it's been a long time for me. The last thing I've been threatening is because I'm not going to talk because it's below the level. [[…]] Another important thing, a special department and scope. This case, Dr. Gorenak knows this, and many others have already, I think, this case has its roots in two European Court decisions, Rehbock and Mother, and then in a decision of the Constitutional Court 10 years ago, where a suspect who had an asthma attack died during the house investigation, the police held him incarcerated and then the investigation lasted a long time. Mother, Rehbock and the Constitutional Court's decision made this very clear: in abuse of the authority of the repressive authorities, whether it be the police, whether it be the judicial police, whether it be customs, if you want, and also the Owl, there must be a system that is independent of internal investigations. If I cut too short, so that the investigation is independent, fast and effective. But then it was under the government, I mean under Minister Dr. Sturm, a slightly different concept was adopted, which was also criticized in one part; but, look, it meant a step forward. And that is that for all the crimes committed by these persons, this is done by a special department for all crimes. But that's just for the cops back then. This really put the cops in an uneven position. And it has to be admitted, I don't know if he will admit that Dr. Gorenak has advocated this fact in several lectures at the Faculty of Security Sciences that police outside of work should not be subject to a different treatment. It can happen, it can really happen if a police officer commits a crime purely outside the time of service and in a civilian, the worst crime not to be dealt with by this department. However, it will not be dealt with by its friends close by, because we all know that the police have their own internal services, in the same way that the prosecutor can commit a crime, but we do not have some special prosecution, as the judge can judge – that is, depending on who is being dealt with. This creates a clean system. And now it's very honest. Would I want to be a little different? I would. The Coalition Treaty requires even the abolition of this section, which we have opposed. Then we made professional coordination, especially with the prosecution, to come up with a clean option, to implement the final decision of Rehbock, Mother and the Constitutional Court in the form it was intended to take. No, Dr. Gorenak, to violate this provision. I believe so much that you know that, but otherwise I wrote two books on the subject of Rehbock and the Mother of the Constitutional Court your rights in police procedures and police law and powers: a general part, and we can look there. I'll be right back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Procedural? Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko Jože.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! I expected you to intervene, in accordance with what Mr Krajnc said, in this performance by Minister Klemenčič, who in some parts was unworthy, unfair and obviously directed at certain Members or Members who were opposed to his solutions. You looked down, you didn't react, you didn't warn — nothing. First of all, it would be wise if you read to Mr Klemenčič the 46th Article of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of public representations of opinions. The purpose of this provision. Obviously you will not do this, I will do: “By obtaining opinions the working body can make public presentations of opinions to which it invites experts and other persons who can provide useful information. The call for a public presentation of opinions on the issues on which information is to be obtained shall be published in public bulletins. The working body invited to a public hearing may request that they give their opinion in writing.” Clearly, Mr Klemenčič does not know, does not understand the purpose of public presentation of opinions. This is not a competition of Members in their views on the subject of law, but of invited persons of other public opinion, professions and so on, to say what they think. We have other tools and other things for such things, but obviously Mr Klemenčič does so in his manipulator's manner. However, I ask you, Mr Vice-President, if you ask Mr Klemenčič, given that he has violated many of the laws in his work at the time of the KPK – something has been written by the Court of Auditors in its opinion, it has stated that he has violated 8 laws in his business, including the Public Finance Act. His successor in this post also said that Mr Klemenčič's actions, when the President of the KPK, were infected with suspicion of illegality. How many procedures have been carried out against Mr Klemenčič? How many mounted wiretaps do I have in my apartment? Is the light exception to this procedure? I would very much like you to verify this, Mr Vice-President, because it is obvious that these laws are written for some, but for others such as Mr Klemenčič, they are not applicable. I would very much like you to answer that question, Mr Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I have to say, I haven't been here all along, but in this part of my life, I didn't understand that he was offensive or, as you say, unfair, unworthy. It is true, however, that I am not thrilled that the Minister is politically evaluating Members. I said that once, and I'm staying. But it is true, if what the minister said is not true, but you have plenty of time — I think almost 53 minutes — to tell what was not right, what he said and what was wrong in the controversy. Mag. Klemenice, here you go. Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, this is not how it's gonna work. First of all, not only was he making a fool of you, but he's making a fool of himself, Comrade Tanko, from the entire National Assembly. Then we'll go straight. Firstly, he told you to read an article in the Rules of Procedure which speaks about what this presentation of opinions or presentation of opinions is. I think that so far — in one way or another, he has prejudged that you will not do this and then he started reading part of the Rules of Procedure — is jesting, literally. That he misused the procedure, you don't even warn him in this part, but you could say it in the debate itself because he said nothing procedural, but he also regrets and does the same thing all the time. The Minister is here today to present the law or to make his views known, his opinions and debates with Members. This, however, has nothing to do with Mr Tanko's abuse of the situation and his continuing mention of today's minister as former KPC President. But the obvious abuse is more than clear, which is known only from this side forward. But here again, I don't blame him. Vice President, your job is to stop him in the middle of abuse, not in the end, and then you don't even know what he did wrong. From the point of view of the process of running the National Assembly, this is your primary task. Please respect at least one criterion, because otherwise, if we allow it, then we can all afford what Mr Tanko is doing and doing nonstop. This isn't his fault. It's your fault and you're responsible for how this meeting is conducted. Do not wait until the end, because you have all the right as chairman to stop it immediately at the beginning! From the point of view of the procedure – he abused procedurally and you did not even warn him!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u57	I just didn't understand the debate as if it was a fool. Mr. Tanko does this, as a rule, warn, even a little abuse. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has already misused procedurally, so that he himself would not make a big show or continue to have an excessively long debate at this point. I didn't stop Mr. Jani, either. That's true when he raised his voice. I think that it is important to focus on the content of the debate, not on the individual's behaviour. Here you go, Mr. Tanko. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u58	Thank you very much. You have well seen that Mr Klemenčič has characterised Members in his performance. What does this law have to do with someone who was once a member of the Communist Union? That's what you used. What does that have to do with anything? What does this have to do with someone being a member of the swim club, with this marriage? Such things, when they are heard with some external effects to influence a Member's position in this debate, are vile if the Minister does so. What, though, did he do when the Constitutional Court annulled his motion for a decision at the KPK or the Supreme Court annulled his case? This is where all our minds tell us what's constitutional and what's legal. And he broke the laws, and the Court of Auditors' report, and he had a annulled decision when he was a member of the KPK Senate, here's a lecture on human rights, stopping and so on. He has no moral ability to do so unless he abuses a function for these things; and he does so. And that's what he's doing! You know, in such discussions, when we talk about how the process will proceed legally, and good for people, ask yourself in particular why there are no proceedings against certain persons. [[…]] You can list on the fingers of ten hands persons, largely protected as nomadic bears; with names and surnames, with obvious acts and matters lie in the drawers of judicial institutions. But they won't fly their heads. Why such duplicity in this hall? And why do you have such a duality when you comment on what matters and discuss them? Why? You will be able to set up wiretaps and follow them for five or seven years out of loving peace because political opponents are setting up wiretaps, so that you can then initiate criminal proceedings for a word he says at home, and for some of the others who already have acts on the table, there is nowhere to be done. And the gentleman hasn't heard from the head yet! He hasn't called yet. He's got these cases himself, he knows them well, and he didn't do anything. Mr Vice-President, I propose that, in these escapades, which the Minister has here to the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, you limit the matter and put an end to it. Procedural proposals are also a legitimate business right of a Member, not a minister. And what does the Minister have to do with it, if I regularly made a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, except that it is demeaning, and that, I will say, I want to discredit the speaker. Please warn him of such nonsense that he does.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u59	Mr Tanko, of course this membership in the Communist Union, and what Mr Klemenčič has done before, has nothing to do with today's topic. We agree, don't we? Mr. Klemenčich, please. You have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you very much. For that, it was the only thing I'm really sorry about, Dr. Gorenak, you kind of put that in my mouth because you said I'd changed. [[…]] But I hope you don't mind. Otherwise, I think I've been very decent for twenty minutes and I'm going to keep doing that and I've been trying to get the matter to content. And I will continue with the content. I'll answer you first, Mr. Tanko. You said what I had to do with you asking legitimate procedural questions. I don't have to stumble into this, absolutely not. Not as a minister. However, I have to respond if you're talking about marriage and you're talking about proven falsehoods. They can be a matter of ignorance, they can be malicious, they can be untruths. I will read your statements: “And given that in this Criminal Procedure Act there are a number of such articles that have a strong impact on protected human rights, they allow, I don’t know, secret entry, the editing of wiretaps without any reason, and so on, it seems reasonable for me to define these solutions also to the Ombudsman. There is no provision in this law that speaks of any entry into an apartment, secret wiretaps and so on. There's nothing in the novel about that. After all, a gentleman sitting two or three seats from me is a specialist in human rights violations, qualified to do so if I may say so at home. Can I add anything else, Mr Klemenčič?" And so on. I only have to suffer this here, but that's why. [[…]] Now, if we go back to the content. Because once again, this performance confirms – and this is not a controversy with you, but we are talking about the law. I agree, there may not be a lot of people who should be persecuted. The procedures are too long. I started an explanation there, and that's why we're adopting this law. And that the matter is even more ridiculous, this law largely follows the proposals made by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think that when this onion breaks down in one piece, we all want it, no matter who's in power, that the justice system works better. And probably if we didn't have this bad luck to represent him, we'd be talking more about content and less about it. Because, once again: 10 hours of debate, 13 minutes of debate on the CAP, the rest about me. Now there's just one thing I didn't answer before, and the question was also: Legal and Legal Service. On the 150 articles that the law has, the Legislative and Legal Service has made one systemic comment on the investigation and has made comments, I think, on 17 or 19 articles. When we continued to coordinate matters, two articles may remain open. And it is not true that the last time on the last committee, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that she insists on comments, but because you tried to challenge her repeatedly by repeating her criticism, she said: “You have it all in the magnetogram.” Finally, the only problem was the amendment concerning the requirement for the protection of the rule of law, and this was justified by the President of the Supreme Court, and some concerns about compulsory defence. Thoughts — Anticonstitution has never been expressed! The legal and legal service cooperated intensively and constructively in the production of the law, because we all had an interest in being good and as good as possible. I think that this is one of the laws which, given the extent of the extremely few comments made by the Law-Legal Service. And it was also said that in the past some laws were fully harmonised, not so bad that, I don't know, 30 amendments and so on. The law on the organisation and work of the police had 119 articles, comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service to 72 articles. The Penal Code – when you say you are listening to the expert – had 381 articles, the opinion of the PPS contained comments on the 17 articles and wrote that it was an arbitrary amendment to the legislation, that the amendments had not previously been sent into coordination and could only now submit their proposals. And so on. Why am I saying this? Because, as Minister, I cannot allow manipulation by the fact that the legal and legal service fully opposes the law, that it has been crushed and so on – the arguments that have been used. She didn't agree with everyone. That is why we have spent not only summer, but also a lot of time trying to coordinate things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, procedurally, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I propose that you explain to Mr Klemenčič that the procedural question is intended for the one who is in charge and not for the Minister directly. He answers the procedural question to the President, not the Minister. You probably know the rules of procedure on public representation of opinions and procedural issues. But apparently the minister doesn't know that. The Minister here considers who has spent how many minutes on procedural proposals, he deals with the work of the National Assembly, considers minutes to be procedural and substantive discussions. How much is the money laundering procedures at the New Ljubljana Bank, Mr Klemenčič? Can you ask him, Mr. Chairman? He knows that, and he needs to know, he should know, because he was on KPK, he filed a complaint, he did everything he had to do, and so on. How much for the bank hole? Mr Vice President, please ask him, this is the content of his work. How many cases against the Ljubljana mayor are they gonna run out of time? Some of them already. Some of them will. Ask him this question, but not to discuss here the procedural proposals of Members who have the right of origin to ask and draw attention to the debate. That's his job. Nothing about that. He deals with the membership of someone, an MP who may have been in a party, deals with someone who has asked the procedural question and so on; with all externalities that have nothing to do with neither the law nor what this law must do. Mr Vice-President is not concerned, why do some judges have such problems that they process something? [[…]] Some will have their heads flying through the media, will they not, Mr. Minister? - in other people's silence. Those are the answers. Do we have the CAP as chosen, as first-class and second-class – we interpret these provisions in one way or another, as will be implemented in practice, or how else do we do it? It is the duty of the Minister to talk about it and to say what will be better in these specific cases, in these procedures. But now he's dealing with it, with political accounting here with some, and so will the CAP, so it's all listed. Thus, the CAP will be implemented in the case of various hearings and so on, not as it should be after the weight of the act being read and so on. If there's not enough ground in one of these, an anonymous person will write against someone, just like he's against a lot of people. I propose or demand that you warn the Minister that he adheres to the proposal of the law and that he leaves the lives of the Members to date. But we can talk about his work here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Of course, I won't ask the Minister, because that's not why I'm here. I'm in charge of the session. However, it is procedurally meant for me, and I fully agree with you. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please. Don't you? Thank you very much. It's his turn. No, he's got the word [[…]] [[…]] Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you, Vice President! I think this debate is becoming absurd. This is absurd because obviously due to certain character traits, certain SDS representatives will begin to argue with the Minister as a result of such provocations. I can probably suspect that this is because he once investigated some of the property that came from, doesn't know where and so on, but that's not the point of this agenda. So I propose to you in a procedural manner that we may take a 15-minute break to clear our heads a little bit, cool off and continue with what is in question; that is, the law that is controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Although the proposal is well-intentioned, I don't think there's any need. Dr. Branko Grimes has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you for your word! Good-bye to all of you! Maybe a procedural note first. I would like to thank you, however, for not stopping Mr Möderndorfer, because it is obvious that Mr Möderndorfer is now pursuing that historic function, which is called the last nail in the coffin of a powerful SMC, and this is done very successfully by Mr Möderndorfer, as public polls already show. Keep it going! Now to the darkness of today. I have before me a few suggestions for comments and amendments made by the operators. With this law, which is before us today, the operators have put into effect an unusual role that they are defending themselves; but Mr Minister, for whom you should prevent it from coming, not that you are the proponent of this story. What's it really about? This National Assembly has once adopted a special resolution by which it has committed itself to working on texts that will be clear, legally uniform and, on the other hand, there are several judgments of the Constitutional Court which state that, especially when it comes to the protection of personal data, especially when it comes to the protection of human rights, any arbitration is inadmissible. Now, what are the operators' comments on this law? I quote: “Operators do not want and should not have the option of arbitral assessment of the written data transmission requirements received.” Mr Minister, it is your responsibility, and only your responsibility, that you are a bill proposing to place telecommunications operators in an impossible situation, so that they will receive, on the one hand, full decisions by reasoning in individual procedures, which means that they will be able to understand where the various stages are going, to listen, to specific measures, why any criminal act will be made clear if they actually get what you now foresee in the law. Once things are leaking, you'll probably wonder who's to blame. They're defending themselves. Even more so, they defend themselves by putting them in a position to judge what to do and what to hand over. You are obliged to put such a law on the table – and it is not so – and I oppose and oppose its operators – so that it will be fully clear which data is required and on what basis. And he doesn't need anything else. The responsibility for the request shall be taken by the person who requests the data. It is your responsibility to write this clearly in the law, but not to leave the operators to have an opinion on what they will give, in what amount, but also to give them unnecessary reasons, if we give you everything, and you give us all the information that is available to you. Is this the new legal system? This is inconsistent, obviously not only with the norms of the Constitution, but also with the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Then you assign operators the obligation to inform later on all the numbers. According to their own statements, which you have probably heard many times yourself, they will have to inform thousands and thousands of people, which, for the first time, is a disproportionate cost, secondly why they should do so. If someone is doing this, let those who demand the data do it, not as operators, because they are actually doing themselves harm or are likely to lower their confidence in themselves as an operator in the eyes of people. Third. In the law, there are even extended provisions on so-called oral orders. With these oral orders of investigative judges, there have been difficulties so far, because there have been cases – you have also been warned, and this is also stated in what was sent by the Economic Chamber, the specific Information and Telecommunications Association – that there has been a reported oral order, but they have never received it, and then were essentially suppressed into a grey zone of one, strictly correct, legal illegality, and in fact they wanted to follow the law. Now you're going to spread it. They shall endeavour to ensure that, at a time when we have sufficient electronic means to do so, each such order should be communicated in a secure electronic manner. There is no problem for anyone who verbally makes this order a joke into a secure system, a safe board or anything, to communicate in a secure post, so much so that there is one basis that there will then be no unpleasant situations or even perceptions for, again, quote, “unscrupulously, unscrupulously and unscrupulously issuing oral orders or for any abuse that may in this case entail a very great responsibility”. All of this is contained in the amendments proposed by the operators who wanted to participate actively in this process. However, after what we could hear, they had no opportunity to do so. They offered themselves, Mr. Secretary, but your side of the deal was not listening. The formalities were satisfied, but their comments went like smoke in the wind. So much for your commitment, which you have made even when you are acting as Minister, how you will cooperate with everyone and listen to comments, in particular professional reasoned comments, and in particular the comments of the legal profession and stakeholders when it comes to the protection of human rights. And that is precisely what this is about, and you are now a violator, because you are proposing a law that is legally unclear, legally inconclusive, leaving the possibility of arbitration to those who should not have the right to do so even theoretically and do not want it themselves. You put them in a business and human position and legally impossible position. The law, as such, is inappropriate from this point of view, is also clearly inconsistent with the Constitution and will most likely, even if you accept it, end up again infamously in the Constitutional Court. But today it would be an opportunity to listen to it and to remove the law, as it were, and thus open the way for you to properly prepare the law that Slovenia needs and deserves. My firm conviction is, but not only my own, I know that the same opinion is on the part of the operators, and you have also been informed that it would be much better to arrange this in Zekem, as it once was, to say exactly what is the responsibility of operators, what they must store, whose data they are obliged to provide and under what conditions, so that the image is perfectly clear to them; and of course for the ordinary user as well. This is the principle of the legal system, which would be the first to be respected, but not to propose a law allowing arbitrariness and thus abuse, to objectively open up even an additional room for possible abuses, for confusion, for misunderstandings, for human rights abuses, for interference with protected personal data in such a sensitive subject as communication in modern space. We all know that life today requires communication, we all know that modern human beings use modern means of communication without it; the legislator's duty, and you, in the first place, as a proponent, is to set up a framework in which it will be fully clear what are the rights, what are the duties, whose data can be kept by operators, when and exactly what conditions these data are required to be transmitted to and to whom and then universal control is possible. Not only control within the operators themselves, Mr. Minister, but also control of the commission I run if you want. With the position you set up with this law, effective supervision work is virtually disabled because some arbitration is allowed in the process itself. The arbitration, which I stress once again, means an objective room for possible abuses, for legal misunderstandings, for arbitration, for all that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly defined as totally unacceptable when it comes to regulating these matters. And you are the proposer of this, and you are responsible for this. And just you!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thanks again. To overcome now who is in favour of, who is against the profession, who has made professional arguments, who is not, would focus only on what was in the position of the ZPS. I mentioned earlier what was the position of the ZPS at the outset and also the fact that, although the Minister had at least partially tried to banalise it, this position did not change until the completion of the treatment on the home labour body. I think that's what the three of our amendments are talking about. The first is with regard to the protection of the legality which the Minister himself has already mentioned, which the Legislative and Legal Service refers to, and I quote: "... disputed in the light of Article 127 of the Constitution, by which the Supreme Court is decided as the highest court..." and so on. Then, when we talk about restricting access to the file, the ZPS also has quite extensive reservations, especially because of how a suspect can prepare himself for defence. Then on, there's also a way of looking and interrogating. So, what is probably one of the most crucial changes, the law enforcement service has considerable concerns. It points out that the proposal introduces changes, and I quote again, “... which raise doubts, in particular, about compliance with the Constitution, with guarantees guaranteed in criminal proceedings ensuring the so-called equality of arms...” and so on. In short, we have tabled six amendments, so substantively, the rest are, of course, related amendments, and three of these are also based on what the Legislative and Legal Service points out. I am so interested in how the Minister actually sees that, in some ways, these comments by the Legal and Legislative Services were, given that they have cooperated and that this is how it is supposed to be resolved. In his opening remarks, he said that most of the amendments to the coalition had been corrected, which, of course, I do not agree with. Then let's go. I am pleased that Levico has commended us for at least having argued against the law, and I am interested in why the Ministry does not want to hear these arguments. Arguments similar to those previously mentioned, in particular as regards the suspect's right. I think the minister has listed some of these reservations and traps that might appear, and here I'm just going to list some specific questions. Why, if there are these traps, is there any chance that these suspects are going in this direction, as stated, why should the Government not propose an advocate under official responsibility for all? So not just for crimes over eight years in prison, but for all these cases. Last but not least, what criterion will the police have to determine whether someone is capable enough to defend himself properly? It's also a question of how many police will be able to assess that. So are the issues in the articles. I cannot agree here that the problem is either a political belief or a political position, but that these articles, especially those that are being amended and those to which the Law and Law Service reminds us, are clearly presenting some legal problems; they present some problems as to how this criminal procedure will follow a new course. I don't think there's a thing here right now that someone would be trying to convince someone to go against it because of political beliefs, but at least with our stuff, it's something that's based primarily on these warnings. As the investigation takes place, it is said in this police work that, I think, a very interesting and important question is what will happen when the police find out that the witness is not only a witness, but a suspect. Can we trust the police then to say, "All right, boys, let's stop now, this man has the right to an advocate. And we're going to do it just before, let's say, admitting all those procedures that are somehow those security mechanisms for a suspect in law and procedure and so on. As far as what the minister said earlier about restraints is concerned, it is not possible under the current law. Yes, of course it is not possible because it has no evidentiary value. However, when criminal proceedings change, it is, of course, essential that this view is, and in our opinion, not limited, because the prosecution and the police are, however, in some way, in favour of the suspect. I think it is right that because of a lot of flat, or even non-spare, such very fragile foundations be prevented from seeing. Because there's a diction here that could harm the execution of the forecasting process. This is a very arbitrary criterion that can also lead to some abuse. I'm not saying it's gonna be a rule, I'm not saying it's gonna be something that's gonna happen, but there's gonna be traps. I think that in the legislative process we have to anticipate all these traps and also address them properly and eliminate them, so that the best thing works. I'd like to ask for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings for me, too! All these issues, and the legal dilemmas of the individual proposed provisions, have been exposed and identified or exposed, as has already been said in previous stages, by the Legal Service of the National Assembly. During this time, we are just concerned that all of these doubts will be resolved, very specifically and thoroughly debated with the legal service of the National Assembly and explained, because it was essentially the basis for initial misunderstanding. Also from the point of view of the grounds which were the basis for these comments. This was then practically cleared to the full. I'll take my turn. As regards the legal service's comments on the right of access to the file, as you say it would be entirely. It should be known that the pre-trial procedure and the pre-trial procedure, this is not a prosecution procedure, but rather a detection phase, when it is determined, also provides evidence in individual cases, when there is a charge where equality in weapons occurs to the full, as provided by Article 29 of our Constitution, where legal guarantees are provided. Nowhere in the world and even in Slovenia has there been so far, and it will probably not be, because this would absolutely limit the effectiveness of the forecasting process if the suspect had already had an insight at this stage of the procedure into everything the police get. Paradoxically, in this misunderstanding, the fact that it is already in force in the current, current system when the police, under article 148a, question the suspect — if there is a lawyer — must do so in accordance with the provisions of Articles 227 to 232 governing the hearing before the investigating judge. It explicitly states that the police must tell the suspect what is the basis for him being a suspect. Now what is there, a provision that is used reasonably or directly in the forecasting process, is explicitly stated that the suspect has the right to look at this part of the police file, which the police state as the basis for this person being a suspect. That's what this is about. Thus, in fact and formally, they should already do so, and they are also doing so, but now only this part is formally regulated in Article 73, that it is explicitly stated that it is a duty, and then it also has a potential to object if they do not show him that part of the file which is the basis for him being a suspect. In addition, it is necessary to know how suspicion-based genetics arise. I can argue that in 98% of the procedures that are more difficult in the investigative sense, notices are collected from citizens, house investigations are conducted, a crime scene is examined, a forensic investigation is made, a suspect is brought to the attention, investigative measures are being carried out, and, as a rule, there is also an expert interview or questioning of a suspect. So everything that's burdensome against a certain person is done before the hearing. For this reason, all proposed solutions are steps towards higher standards and the legal security of suspects, because now that the police are making official markings, it is not necessary to ensure contradictions with these preliminary investigations, but now this will also be the right and duty of the investigating judge, since at this stage the suspect will have the right to look into the file, to ask any contrary questions and so on in previous investigations. You've raised a dilemma as to what would happen if the police, while talking to a potential witness, found out that he was actually a suspect. It will do the same as it does now – it is incumbent upon it to immediately end the matter, to instruct it about the rights as a suspect in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 148 and to treat it as a suspect. This is equally settled already, and I think the police are doing it properly and honestly. Right now, I don't know the case of an abuse in a situation like this. Thus, these matters are essentially, if we take a good look at the genetics of the creation and the process of forecasting, in fact significantly higher standards and the legal safety of suspects in the forecasting process. As regards the introduction of a Member on transport data. On the contrary, as found in the end, we are more specifically regulating and increasing legal certainty. In fact, this part that the possibility of an operator, when the police or the prosecutor requires certain data, not traffic data, is highlighted here, we are talking about Article 148.c, which speaks of so-called procurement data. So these are the customer information that users who are secret, and users don't want to be in some directory. When the police and the D.A. request this information, according to the operator system, certain data cannot be obtained through traffic data. If the police so require, which is unacceptable even under the current regulation, because the traffic data must be ordered by the court, then the operator has the right not to refuse the request of the police or the prosecutor, but to send the data to the court for doubt. As a guarantor, and if he sees that everything is in accordance with the law, then he gives it to the prosecution. In short, there is also a higher level of legal certainty for users or owners of these telecommunications devices. I can also tell you from the practice that it has already happened a few times, but I think about three times, I also have in mind that the order of the court the operator refused, he did not find out because he considered that it was contrary to the law, which is unacceptable in the rule of law, because we are all obliged to respect the legal decisions and orders of the courts, all state authorities. And in fact, it's some kind of security guard for phone owners and in no way restricts the police and the prosecution, but it only increases the legal security of users and, at the same time, it protects operators in some way. As far as the oral dilemma is concerned. These oral orders already exist in the case of covert investigative measures to the full, i.e. listening, recording of hearings and in what inflational delinquencies at the scene of the act, when the perpetrator is on the run, it is operationally inevitable that it is also possible to obtain such data on an oral order. And the fact that this oral can practically be carried out in the way Mr Grims said there is no legal obstacle. Many protocols are between the police, the operators and so on, and these things can be protocoled, whether it is by email or it is on one or another electronic drawer; this is essentially a matter of sub-legal matter or protocols on the effective implementation of legal obligations and provisions. Thus, in some ways, we actually raise all these legal standards, both in terms of the legal situation and the safety of telephone users or of suspects in the forecasting process, but it is true that this requires a higher level of professionalism, care and responsibility of the detection and prosecution authorities on the other hand. So there is no dilemma here that anything constitutionally disputed. It is only a higher level, in fact, due diligence in ensuring rights on both sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Word [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, please, Dr. Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you. I would have a proposal based on what Mr Stara also replied to me. In some ways, the Ministry or the Government insists that most of these concerns, which have been resolved by the Legislative and Legal Service, have been resolved. I've already told my personal position, even how I see this thing, so they're not. I would ask that you suspend the meeting and that we also obtain, in respect of all the amendments that have been adopted to the final version of the text of this Act, that the Legislative and Legal Service be redefined to all of these or to those comments that it has had to actually determine whether they have been abolished. I think that this is crucial for the work of the National Assembly, so that Members, including those who are not members of the Committee, can, in the end, judge accordingly on this law. I think you can do so under Rule 73, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I think that by the third reading, we will have this answer, or the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, very precisely. I wouldn't interrupt this session at this point. Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I haven't responded for a long time, even with procedural no, but my assessment was that the debate went on how to say, I don't know, in some perfectly normal direction, of course, critical, but until Mr Krajnc came forward with that proposal. You heard him, didn't you? Mr. Krajnc is not here, but I have to tell him this. If, say, Mr. Shaker calls me an idiot and a fool, that's fine – probably, right? Because he's a high school kid, but he belongs with the SMC. That's what I had to tell Mr. Krajnc. Okay. The minister apologized to me. I guess he'll be gone. He took three quarters of his time, left the Secretary of State here in some kind of insolence, because there's not much time left. But the minister apologized. If I didn't, I could tell the minister that -- if I didn't -- I could say that I don't have any problems with my party membership, but I went out at the time of the beginning of this country, a little earlier. And he continues the traditions of that party today, even though he may not have been a member. But I would tell him that, and I won't tell him because he apologized. Okay. Now in a row. A little bit of the minister first. As far as these three professors are concerned, I actually said I knew only one person. I didn't say which one, but I do know Dr. Erbežnik, and I don't know the others. However, I know that these are not Mr Bavcon's generation and Mr Bavcon's school, but they are certainly younger, whether they are 50 or 60 young, and so on they would probably just leave. You have listed Mr Kershmanc, Selinski and so on as the people who support it and so on. It's the same as if I were to point out my professional associates. My professional colleagues also support and even help me with what I am discussing. Actually, these are your professional associates. So they're not a reference, even though one of them is a district judge today, these are the people who are with you at work and were paid there to defend your views. As far as public representation of opinions is concerned, you criticized her if there was no one here. For my terms, a public presentation of opinions is intended for the public, not the Member, and I hold on to that. But I was lying at the ocular clinic in Celje that day. Maybe I'd come to listen to these people, but I wouldn't argue because I have a chance to discuss them, and they don't, they only have one chance like that, 13. Six was that. I'm sure you'd listen to them if you weren't in the hospital, if we were clear. I don't know when you know what I teach. You're gonna have to explain to me how you know what I teach or what I teach, I'll say. If the police should not be treated differently – this is part of my 2000 lectures, not more than 2000. Why not more than 2005 or 2006 ahead, when already? Because these judgments of the European Court of Justice and of our Constitutional Court have come. So this part I am pleased that you have actually admitted that this 158th article is now written in such a way that the murder of a policeman will be investigated by a police officer, which, in my opinion, is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. [[…]] So much for back. The Secretary of State spoke about these articles mentioned by Mr Grims. But look, I don't think you're right. An operator or a service provider may provide information for reasoned reasons not to the police, but to the court or not to give them to the police and not to the prosecution, but to the court. Don't you think you're putting operators in a role that isn't right for them? It's the same as that, I don't know, you ask your doctor if the judgment is in order or if it's not written right. In fact, operators are now going to have to evaluate those data and say, who the hell are they going to give it to now, whether it's legal to give it to the police, whether it's right to give it to the police, or not. Who's gonna do this with the operators? Then he'll say no, but now I'm gonna send this to the court at my expense, and I'm not gonna send it to the police or the D.A. I think it's a mistake. Actually, they shouldn't have that right, at least I think so. Of course, they will now also decide what they will give to the police, what they will give to the prosecution, or what they will do to the judiciary. I think it's completely wrong. The fourth paragraph of Article 149c even states that the operator shall inform the person of the transmission of the data. I don't know why he's giving that kind of expense to an operator, because he didn't hand it over to the police or the D.A. because he would want to, and he has some costs, but because he has to do it. But if he has to do this, let the data-gathering authority keep him informed, not the operators. As far as the amendments are concerned – if I have seen them correctly, there have been so many in this law that it is virtually impossible to follow the whole matter – I have clearly warned in the discussions before about paragraph 2 of Article 150a, which speaks of IMSI-catcher, that is to say, the identification of telephone numbers. If the police – here, I would like to borrow a practical example – wanted to find out what my number is, what Mr Horvath's number is for such or other reasons, it will be determined by the use of IMSI-catcher. This is a reasonable suspicion. When you look at 149.b., when it comes to communicating communication data, it's just a suspicion. That's what you said, if I saw it right, you fixed it with the amendments. All right, fine, fine. However, I am sure that question 149.b of Article remains fully open, and I can say this on the basis of a discussion with the information officer. 149.b., I have warned you about this several times, it is directly linked to Articles 162 to 169, with all these articles, the Law on Electronic Communications. You've just made such a story here that it's pretty vague. Indeed, all Articles 162 to 169 of the Law on Electronic Communications have been repealed. Canceled. The Constitutional Court has even said that all the data obtained under these articles must be destroyed without delay, irrespective of where they are, at the police, the prosecution or the judiciary. What's going on today? Today it is that the courts, after some, do not know what is what, the recommendation, the decision or what is already the Supreme Court, use economic data and send them to the police and the prosecution. But economic data is the data that tells us where you called, when you called, who you called, how much you spent. These data are collected for completely different reasons, which is the reason why the accounts are being paid, and they are being forwarded to the police today, and I don't think they should be sent to the police. A lot of constitutional disputes are ongoing on this subject, and I think it can happen that the state will pay very much. The Ministry of Justice claims that it is a matter of consistency with the Constitution, I am talking about Article 149.b. In a comparative review, if you look at Germany, you will find that it is the worst crimes in Germany when it is possible to transmit this information to the police or to the prosecution, but we have had arrangements so far when virtually all the data can be given or at least most of them could be given, which has been repealed both at European level and by a decision of the Constitutional Court. At least the Germans here have the worst crimes against constitutional regulation and more, but we have now entered in 149.b a year in prison as a condition that such data can be transmitted. But look, up to one year in prison and more – the lower penalties are 15% and not more. This means that it will still be possible for 85% of the data to be transmitted under 149.b, which I believe is contrary to both the European regulation in this area and the decision of our Constitutional Court, the whole article, the grounds for doubt. Of course, it is quite unacceptable and low standard. Let me draw attention only to the solution, the solution would be to refer to paragraph 150, I mean to the listening criteria. So much for this stage on my part. I'm always ready for the right debate, but if anyone insults me or does anything else with me, I'm gonna bite back pretty bad. You've seen this before — haven't you? And I will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Minister! Indeed, the law of criminal procedure has been going on for several months in the National Assembly. Much has been said, you yourself have listed, but it seems to me that the problem and serious concern is also on the opposition's side, how and what to do to ensure that the weaker in this law will not be further damaged or the problem of time-consuming proceedings seems to me that the problem of injury and damage to the suspect may be. Personally, I think it's worth thinking about here. Especially in view of the fact that we all keep saying that confidence in the rule of law needs to be restored, that we want an effective and fair trial. But we can't forget the weakest one, maybe. As you yourself have said, this law brings them, in a certain sense, I hold back all your claims, but it seems to me that it leaves a closed door too closed to any other practice. People without lawyers – I think from this point of view it's very good to look at being, I don't know, I'm pretty careful here myself. I do not hope to say in full that these people may be more protected than those who have money and can afford the best lawyers in the country. It is not really free of charge that there is probably a universal sign that we have a legal state of two levels — those to which laws apply and those to which laws do not apply and who have money that these laws do not apply. I think that we must all work together in the direction that the laws are true for all and that for those who are worse violators, the procedures are faster than they are to go on forever. Last but not least, I was also alerting myself to the problem that somehow came to the epilogue on Monday. However, in New Slovenia, we want to have a country of all citizens and that the country is the same for all citizens and to apply the principle of equality before the law for all, including for those who may have missed a deadline in some process. I am talking about our 141.a Article, which we have already put into transitional provisions at the Committee's own meeting. I can say that I have somehow been disappointed by the vote against our amendment, which is actually the basis for equality of citizens and that the law is the same for all. I am talking mainly about people, about victims who actually did not have the opportunity to rehabilitate the deceased or that option was interrupted in 2012. Of course, apart from the law on archival materials, which was still an accessible law, that people began looking for things about their missing, their properties, had a law about a decent burial, where they actually began to discover things in Slovenia only in the last year or two. It seems to me that it makes sense for the amendment of New Slovenia to be adopted and that it is also possible for people who want to rehabilitate their relatives to do so in the Penal Code. It seems to me that in a civilized world, there is a general acceptance of the principle that war crimes do not become obsolete. So if something doesn't get old, we can't take someone's right to prove it, you wash the person's guilt for which he wasn't really guilty, and under some regime it was actually said that he was guilty, and maybe we have a successful case of the Hrybars, but the case of the Hrybars happened at a time that allowed them to rehabilitate. [[…]] It seems to me that it is right and fair for all citizens to give this opportunity yet. Although our original amendment was in the 121st article, which did not actually have a time limit, we also agreed with the Ministry to impose a time limit, and we put this time limit up to 31. 12. 2020. I am sure that during this time the cases in Slovenia will turn around, especially because of the law on a decent burial, and that we will be able to say, however, that we have given citizens the opportunity to defend themselves against judicial protection and the opportunity to do away with the guilt of their relatives, for whom they can prove that they were not guilty. So I also ask you, the coalition, to understand, however, that the need for this is primarily from the point of view of the rule of law, and not ultimately, what does this state cost? My question is, what does it cost to extend the deadline or restore the deadline to 31. 12. 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the word, but he probably applied when he wanted to do it on a procedural basis. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I think we're still on amendment to Article 3. [[advertising from the hall]] Is it common? Oh, I'm sorry I didn't [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u79	No, we're formally at 3rd, but we're having a full discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thus, we are still discussing the third amendment in general. Perhaps I would just like to say something, colleague Gorenak is not in the hall that mentioned Mr Krajnc, I do not know if he has any illusions or anything, today there was no Krajnc here in the Chamber. It was second, procedurally, he had a colleague, Alexander Kavčič. So that it doesn't remain unspoken that someone is mentioned who isn't here. Just enough to warn you about the public and the magnetogram. The CAP, the Criminal Procedure Act, is a difficult matter, even though it may seem to us, even the lay public, that we know a lot about it, because maybe this is one thing we talk about a lot, which is closest to us, because it also appears in the public that we can discuss. Let's say I compare it to a fair procedure that we haven't discussed very much. Here we have accepted the amendment of the CAP pf, without – there is a significant number of these disputes, and we have done this one, two, three. Somehow it may be closer to the common mortal, or how can I say that no one will ever take me by word of mouth again, that I meant something bad. However, it is one very complex system of standards that are interlinked and which provide for protection in the case of suspects or accused persons or accused persons and then another law regulating the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Someone mentioned that it would have to be faster just to illustrate this misunderstanding, someone mentioned, I think colleague Iva Dimic, but let's give those who have committed more serious violations more quickly. This is a typical misunderstanding of the Penal Code and the criminal procedure, in the case of worse infringements, the procedure is of course more complex and complicated to ensure more forms of protection in the proceedings of someone suspected or accused of a more serious crime. These are longer procedures, not shorter procedures. I also thought of discussing the next amendment under Article 38, where the new fourth paragraph is now proposed, the SMC, Desus and SD amendment to complement the protection of the suspect when being heard in the forecasting process. This Article has already been amended in accordance with the public debate, also corrected in accordance with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In addition to ensuring the third paragraph of this Article, this is 148.a. Article 38 of the Criminal Procedure Act, Article 38 of the Amendments to the Law, the rules on how a suspect is being questioned are laid down, not to mention the accused here, in what way, under what conditions a suspect may be questioned, what conditions, what legal instruction must be and even if he is unable to defend himself successfully, that the State must place an advocate at its expense, that is, that guardian. Even if the suspect at any time during the hearing declares that he wants an advocate, the police must immediately suspend the hearing and follow the fifth paragraph of the preceding Article. The fourth paragraph therefore adds more safeguards to this amendment, more legal lessons so that the suspect understands even more what rights he has in this process. It's a predictive procedure, when we don't have an indictment filed at all, it's basically a matter of collecting data on whether or not an indictment will be filed. We are not saying that the proceedings are already being brought before the court, before the police and before the prosecutor, there is no criminal procedure. The only thing I would like to stress is that in criminal Yes, we will gain, according to the new law, if this law, when adopted in the form proposed, is part of investigative actions, that is to say, part of the evidence that will then be carried out once again in the main proceedings. [[…]] At present, evidence is obtained in the forecasting process, and then it is repeated in the investigation once again at the main hearing. Three times. We have already talked about this, we have not been able to do the CAP to put an end to the investigation, although there is a lot of talk about this being necessary. Okay, we've decided, here we're going to go partly to obtaining individual evidence in the demonstration process and we're going directly to the main hearing where this is going to take place, that is to say, a witness hearing and a suspect hearing. That's not the only evidence in the process! I don't know if you've ever seen the CAP and there are other provisions, there are documents, there are experts, there are a whole bunch of things that are evidence that will still be implemented in the same way. And when someone, Comrade Vatovec – because I said that the judgment should not be based on the testimony of the witness in the pre-trial proceedings or only on the testimony of the witness to the suspect in the pre-trial proceedings – that the court would find something, yes, I do not know, but in this way the criminal procedure does not take place and cannot take place. The prosecutor is the one who has to present the evidence, even in the investigation can still be obtained, so now it will not be a matter of questioning the suspect and the witnesses, but it is just so simple that the state will now find something in the criminal procedure Forgive me, the criminal procedure is not arranged in this way, so it is so decided, precise and clear that the suspect or the accused then has a lot of options for defence and the opportunity to present the contrary evidence which the court must consider that it cannot – because it is now that the court will find something, indeed, that only someone who does not know this procedure really well enough can say. [[…]] But I'm sorry, I'm a little bit pricked up, and I believe it wasn't even quite meant to be, but we can't say, it doesn't mean that the court is going to be arbitrarily looking for evidence now, and it's going to be a little quick to convict someone. The law on criminal proceedings is made so you can't just make up evidence. However, if the witness's hearing and the suspect's hearing is good, the suspect will not say for the most part that it is his fault, depending on how much it is, it is not possible to do so – if there are multiple witnesses and there are other evidences that can also be challenged, the defence has the opportunity to propose its contrary evidence, and will also have an insight into the material already in the forecasting process, I do not think there can be any argument that this will now endanger the suspect who has very much potential for his defence in the criminal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Earlier in his discussion, the minister had been quite embroiled by someone he knew in the field of legal experts, who was closer to someone and so on. Now that I am starting this debate, I will say in advance that I do not know anyone and that I am only sticking to the Bible record “in their works you will get to know them” and that this will be followed by my discussion. However, allow me to be irresistible even to what the minister himself has pointed out. You know my personal opinion on the Minister, but I'm talking about the Minister's Institute, and here I think it's very important that we clear some things up or maybe explain them. I am no longer young, but in this Slovenian country I am one of a younger generation. Personally, I don't mind who had the party book and who didn't have it. I also know that some had to have it so that they could do their job or whatever they were trained to do. But there is something else that bothers me that we have or have had, after we have dropped the Yugoslav flag here in this market and raised the Slovenian flag when we adopted our constitution, still individuals at the highest levels of justice who have violated human rights. I think that a minister should say that in the highest branch, the judiciary has supported people who have violated human rights, that the Minister is not yet in the interest of publishing lists of judges who violate human rights in their work. I'm talking about this country, not the one that was gone. I mean, you know, whoever had the book is the least of your problems. We have a problem here today, we have a problem with what I'm talking about, and we have a problem with this marriage. You know, it's not me, but one of the experts wrote that the individual solutions introduced by the CAP are actually solutions known by the 1948 Yugoslav CAP, which was the most inquisitor process in the former country. That's what the experts are writing to you today, and think about it, Minister, not who once had the red book. I also very much agree with my colleague Clearly, who spoke about the fact that it is actually an important efficiency, not a speed, but, of course, in some parts, speed is not negligible. Above all, what is happening is that we have double criteria for these things, that some procedures are extremely fast to be completed, that some procedures actually do not come into the process itself, that they are already ending, that they start well before, and that on the other hand we have procedures that are concluded in record times, and that human rights have been found to have been violated. The Ministry has yet to think about that. Look, Minister, you have repeatedly explained in your previous application that the only response to corruption is transparency, including legislation. Now tell me if this marriage has really dedicated itself to being as transparent as possible. Let me remind you that this procedure started somehow by addressing the matter in the National Assembly, and on a proposal from the coalition, the decision came to the table to hold a public debate. The only right thing to do is make no mistake. The only right thing to do, but, Minister, it didn't come up with your proposal, because if that were your proposal, it could have been before. Before that, we could ensure that the professional public is as united as possible on the proposal for a law. It did not have to be pushed in any way and then a public debate arose from the committee in the process. You did not do this at the previous stage because there were too many different opinions and too many who disagreed with you. May I remind you here of the so-called Law on State Lawyery – what have you been doing? This law is enforced and you will see that forced things are never useful in the long run. After the so-called public debate and different opinions have been heard, professional opinions, individual matters are also useful, I want to be truly an objective body, but there have been many comments. And then we had another convened session, and that session was postponed again. So this means that there is actually a huge amount of inadequacy here. Then we had a meeting, a lot of amendments, but see, today we have a lot of them on the table again, so I also welcome the decision when it was said that we should have a general discussion, because we can fully devote ourselves to these amendments. But look, that's how this transparent bill of yours went. Today, of course, you are in a different role and it is getting easier, but one of the governments you have seen the speed of procedures, the inadequacy, you need to know that these bills have been largely parliamentaryly harmonised, not just coalitionly. But these are your double standards that we're already used to, and let's leave it. We'd also be flying individual amendments. Some of them have just been dissected and presented by colleagues, including mag. Grims, however, might point out an amendment which does, however, touch on the possibility of misuse in the covert investigation of telecommunications data transmission instead of the oral order, determine the electronic route to a secure information system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this is also a safeguard in abuse, because it is also a more transparent way. The Transparency Minister is likely to support this transparent amendment. I do not see here what the Ministry could object to this proposal, but instead of verbally using an electronic route into a secure information system and the matter is not being extended at all. There's been a lot of talk about so-called operators. Earlier, a colleague of Grimes said that they were themselves opposed to this proposal, which is now in law. If they have common sense, this is a logical consequence — you imagine that the operator is now the one who will decide where and what data will be transmitted? He's not an expert on that! This is an illogical solution, it is the transfer of responsibility to people who must not have these responsibilities in their work cycle. Their workarounds are not intended to be decided now whether to be referred to the court or to the prosecution and so on. And that is what you are now determining – operators will have to make these decisions. Someone's really playing around here. Who will take such responsibility? He is not in this position to now determine what is to be sent and what is not to be sent, and then even to determine who is to be sent. A completely flawed solution! I argue that the law, as well as the wider use of it, does not bring benefits, much more contradictions. Dilemma and dissatisfaction occur in operators and the public will be dissatisfied, respected. They're going to eavesdrop on you today, and then some operator is going to decide what he's going to do next, or what I'm going to do at home to talk about how much potatoes I have to give for lunch, or maybe where I bought it, which market. He will now decide what is useful in bringing this information forward. I mean, wrong, really wrong. We also propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in favour of the investigation, that the investigating judge should decide on the request for an investigation order within one month of its receipt at the latest. We are certainly helping to shorten the entire processes here. According to the law, it's been three months. To avoid misunderstandings, those who do not know this article are concerned that the matter may then be extended. And there is no problem if there are some objective circumstances why. But not to be extended again for three months and then for another three months, that together is practically one year. We propose a solution, all after a month. This means a total time of three months, that's as much as you're basically giving for the first so-called investigative judge's request. Well, that's a major reduction. I claim that there will therefore be no less efficiency. She won't be here. The investigating judge will know when he has a deadline, if he can't do so, he also has a chance to extend because such circumstances can happen, we all know that. But let's cut those hands! Here, I believe that the matter would be of further benefit in its own effectiveness. In short, the Minister is not again in the Chamber, once again, rather than dealing with the wearing of red books, to deal with transparency, to deal with the effectiveness of justice, to deal with human rights violations to the greater extent of the exception that will take place, and this one must not be aware that we will be citizens and citizens who are judges who have violated human rights, so that we will know more clearly how judges are chosen, and not who has carried any booklet in the past. Otherwise, as I said at the beginning, “by their works we will know them”. I'm already a very good minister myself, and I don't want anyone else to do it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Darko Stare, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Member of the Commission, I would like to highlight only two points of your opinion, or comments, about 149.c., which regulates the transmission of data from operators to the police or the prosecution. This is customer information, i.e. from telephone directories that are classified if the subscriber or the user so wishes. You say that we are now imposing this change on the operator that they will have to decide – they are already deciding. They shall, by law, manage such data and may only transmit such data to the competent authorities on a legal basis. We now have, under the third paragraph of Article 149b in force, the situation that the police sometimes fail or mistakenly require information that is in fact required by a court order, i.e. traffic data, and that the operator simply does not send them, which is, to some extent, to some extent, if I speak systematically, difficult to accept that a State authority, because it is assumed that it works under law, some private economic company restricts it by not giving it anything. We provide by supplementing this regulation the way that the operator will always have to respond to the request of the prosecution or the police, we are talking about contracting data, but if it considers that the requirement is illegal, that the police or the prosecution require something that would require a court order, it will implement it and send the required data to the court, which is the guarantor of legality, and the court will assess whether everything is in accordance with the law and will mediate it. Now we have a situation where the operator does not realize this at all, which is unacceptable in terms of the effectiveness of the forecasting process and the functions of the law enforcement authority. This is about a measure that is about exactly what you're saying. And we all want them to be effective together and not be one private company or an operator, whatever we call it, to have no data. The honourable Member will recall the problems of Article 55 of the Police Act, which regulated these matters, I am talking about contracting data when new private operators appeared on our market and simply rejected requests and did not exist. So 12 years ago, this 149.b article was created to kind of limit these things, but it's still going on. In short, we do not impose any new responsibilities on the operator, but we only ensure that decisions are taken and where there is doubt that the process will run, that is what this is about. I think that's right and good. However, I understand that operators in some way want to avoid responsibilities, but this responsibility that they decide not to provide data seems to be contrary to the public interest already expressed by the current Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. The court will decide. We also have cases where the operator rejected the court order because he considered it illegal and did not realize it, which is absolutely unacceptable in a democratic state, and this must not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak? [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, good. Gradually, Mrs. Anja Žibert. [[advertising from the hall]] And the replica? Replica, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u86	Pretty short, because it fits in this context. It is absolutely in this context. We go back, we know the case in the Slovenian space, it's partly secret and we can't say the exact things, but you know him and I know him. The police requested some information from a broadcaster, the prosecution agreed, the investigating judge issued an order, and the operator said, "No, you have no legal basis." You're right up here, but there's something about an operator being right, not a court, and we both know that. The operator was right, not the court. We know what I'm talking about. But if now I say those words that you've spoken, I turn around, but the thing is that you're now putting the operator as the judge of the law. Yeah, of course, because now the operator is going to be the one to say, yeah, and I have the calf, and I have these data to give to the prosecutor or the court. This doesn't belong to an operator in any way. The operator has to give them, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, So much as a complement to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u88	That's what we're thinking with Comrade Gorenak. To be clear and in particular for the benefit of the citizens, please answer me now whether the operators will arbitrarily decide what they will send to the police and the state prosecutor's office and what the court will do. Will they or won't they? Bodo. And that's the problem we're alerting you to. They will, because they will decide who they will send. Of course, it's in this proposal, look. And that's what we can't charge the operators. We can't. This is wrong because they are not even qualified to do so, so that they will now decide what and how. Let it go the way it's supposed to go, everything that it is must be put forward and point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 3 and Article 113 and the amendment of the left-wing Group? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. Thank you very much. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 16 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 38, Article 39, Article 56 and Article 58, we will discuss the amendments to this Article together. I shall put to the debate paragraphs 16, 18, 39, 56 and 58 and the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The lefties aren't here, and now I'm defending them. Now it's a little comical. All of these articles, prepared by the Left, are articles that actually delete the so-called abolition of a judicial investigation, or articles that put things back in the old place. This means that the judicial investigation remains as it is. This is also advocated by respected legal experts, mentioned earlier, by three professors of three law schools. That's why it's for the coalition today – I don't really know if there's a test, but the coalition is here on the test, whether we're going to go in that direction or not. If we go this way to avoid supporting the amendments that have just been mentioned, then we go in the direction of some kind of chaos. Chaos, which will mean a fairly vague legal situation, vague legal certainty, if you want, of the citizens who will find themselves in these proceedings, for a fundamental reason, because it is simply not the prosecutors or the police who will not know best how to act in individual cases, because the judicial investigation is now partially discontinued, but it is not discontinued, we have little, but we have little, and we have little, and we can decide the criminalist, a little can be decided by the prosecutor and so on and so on. That's why I'm saying there's going to be a mix-up, so it shows that these amendments are fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Darko Stare.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you. All I'm trying to say is to avoid misunderstandings, that in no case can a criminal judge decide on a judicial investigation. In the current Rules of Procedure, the investigating judge shall decide exclusively and may decide solely on the proposal of the State Prosecutor. Well, there's no court case today unless the D.A. suggests it. She can't be. It's always the D.A.'s. However, the purpose of the investigation is not to ensure that the judge or the investigating judge is the assistant prosecutor, but rather to ensure that evidence that would later be impossible is protected, or that there is a high risk of being destroyed or not being protected. The essence of this story is to avoid misunderstandings, we do not interrupt, we in fact specify the decision of Mother, Rehbock, which you mentioned, where the European Court said that the prosecutor, the law enforcement authority must use as soon as possible all the legal tools and remedies it has, so that it can quickly decide what its function is, whether it is to prosecute or not. As a result, Article 165a has already been enacted in 2004, referring to the so-called preliminary investigations, which are intended precisely to ensure that, where necessary, I do not know, the hearing of one witness suggests that the State prosecutor does not need a judicial investigation, which then requires, as the Minister has already said, service, appeals to the Senate, to a higher court. 90% of the time for these 2, 3, 4 years of ongoing investigations, although the instruction period is 6 months, you all know that, it takes so many years, because even in the face of difficult crime, people are hot abroad, they cannot be reached and they are all waiting. Even then, in the same judgment as you said, the European Court of Justice has made this clear, and in 2014 our court. It is the duty of law enforcement authorities to use as soon as possible all legal means of investigation provided for in the law. Orders and scopes are autonomously determined by themselves. It was unfortunate that the change already made in the CAP in 2004 was then interpreted by the prosecution as proposing only one investigative act, although it was very clear from the wording of the article that it could propose more. We are, in fact, simply ordering what is, in any event, a positive commitment by each state authority, in its efforts, to use everything it has at its disposal, and it is for the prosecutor to decide whether or not to propose a PPD or not or to propose a judicial investigation. We do not restrict it, we do not suspend it, we do not change it, it is only legally explicit its duty under the Constitution to use everything as soon as possible in order to fulfil its function. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I would only briefly complement the Secretary of State about what I heard – I apologize if I didn't fully hear, I was in the government room, I heard your performance, but then I went — that there would be a situation with this now where the police, the prosecutors won't know what to do, because we have a system, we'll say, which is not a mouse, you probably didn't say, but you could say that, but I don't mean that. I would like to say the following, right now we have a system whose only contradiction, which is, is the contradiction within itself. Why? Because by the very nature of the matter, and you know that, of course, the police are gathering notices, collecting evidence, interviewing suspects, I can't call it a hearing, making official notes, doing interviews with alleged witnesses, which aren't called witnesses, but they're called people who might give the necessary notices in the forecasting process. And then we get back to the UZ. Throughout decades of judicial practice and changes to the law have changed by their weight and nature. After the last decision of the Supreme Court years ago, those gathered by witnesses have a certain evidentiary value, while those gathered from suspects do not have direct evidentiary value, but may remain in the file if the suspects were taught rights before the police focused the investigation on them. This is the system I am talking about, and I am behind it, which is currently unique in Europe. Dr. Gorenak, you need to know that even in some systems where there is still a judicial investigation, that is France, Luxembourg and Spain – France will probably always have it, because it is their product, and I have talked about it with two of their ministers, otherwise there is an enormous amount of way past the investigation, mainly as in all other countries, the de facto forecasting process is run by the police. We all know that in all these systems, it's not always the right thing to do, but it is. These are the ones who collect the evidence, but they're more or less controlled. However, even in France, under certain conditions, not significantly different than we suggest today, evidence collected by the police, including testimonial evidence, can be used in a court of law. The same is true for Spain, which is currently in the process of changing the criminal procedure and for Luxembourg, to be honest, I do not know. I would add that when we introduce these articles, the deletion of which is proposed by the Left, we will actually keep, we will say, in our firm conviction, the worst of both worlds. We would keep the official labels, at the same time give extremely small legal certainty to suspects, to those suspects who do not have an advocate, because there is no requirement for the record to be written, and there is no requirement for recording. At the same time, I would like to add that, for example, the Council of Europe’s CPT Supervisory Committee has been constantly repeating for 15 years Slovenia’s demand that police interviews or hearings be recorded. You also know that, years ago, equipment was purchased for all police stations, 600,000 euros went into this and maintenance. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, according to the CAT report, too. But it wasn't used, and today we're going to have that option. Finally, at European level, it was adopted or is just before the adopted Regulation establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office, where Slovenia had this very problem that this Regulation does not allow participation in this procedure in cases where the State has an investigative judge and has no opportunity to go past it, the possibility that we are now also legitimising with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I thought I wouldn't have a 15-minute monologue at the end, but I'd get some answers, but it's not up to me. The minister now said nicely that they were in France in one way or another around this court investigation, and he was shown with his hands. That's what I was talking about. In fact, France has never completely abolished this matter, but the fact is that it is sharpening today. At least that's what those who know more about it tell me. So they're sharpening things and restricting the D.A.'s office and putting more into the judicial branch of power. That's part of it. And part two, the Secretary of State didn't convince me, I'll say. It's not going in any way. An operator can't be a judge, not give him that assignment, no. He can't! He's not the one who can decide what he'll give to someone, what he won't give. It is simply that the judicial branch of power must have the mechanisms through which it will receive this, the point, certainly, but not that the operator will decide who he will give something to. There is an open debate on some articles, and given that the Ministry of Justice has so little time, I would still like to hear the Minister's opinion at this minute, and in particular our amendment to Article 50. Our amendment to Article 50 is trying to remedy what I had previously pointed out is that the murder of a criminalist will be dealt with by a criminalist. Look, we can't go that far, at least in my opinion. We are now here in article 50 summarizing what is your solution – that service’s powers and so on – but we are also bringing in crimes committed outside the service, unrelated to a job for which one year’s imprisonment is prescribed or more. I am deeply convinced that this solution is much better, so that somehow I would like to have the Minister's position here, so that the coalition will not go as well – because we know how it goes. I would also be particularly interested in the position of the Ministry or the Minister with regard to our amendment to Article 41, which is an amendment under Article 2. This one seems pretty important to me, too. Why does this seem important to me? Because we're going after my assessment of better solutions, I'll say. In particular, Article 149b still raises the question of either reasonable suspicion or purely ordinary suspicion. We're putting it in a better position, and we're trying to implement it in a way that I think is more appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u97	I ask if anyone else wants to discuss Article 16. I'm guessing yes. Mrs. Jasna Murgel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Maybe I would just point out, because now I don't know, something is being discussed together, and every one of them is debating, which he thinks is something that needs to be discussed. Now I don't have a checkup, which is exactly what, but it doesn't matter. I would just like to say that, given that it has been repeatedly exposed to the fact that in some part of the investigation, and that, after that public debate and the comments of experts, nothing has been taken into account, everything was the same there on the committee, after we showed up, the Ministry of Justice has not taken any account of this and we now have a situation here that does not concern, not the mice, I must point out explicitly that the Legislative and Legal Service has had a very serious problem with the proposed article 57 of the bill, which referred to Article 167 of the CAP, which changed the conditions for the initiation of the investigation, that this article was lined up. So, the Ministry of Justice only drafted an amendment that we then tabled to make this envisaged amendment, so that the Prosecutor himself could decide whether or not to initiate an investigation was deleted because I remember when I read the comments of the Legal and Legal Service, what all of this entails. [[…]] I, too, could not say how to digest this, that there was too much doubt as to whether the procedure would then stand and whether all the protection in the process, especially the suspect and later the accused, would be provided. In short, it must be made clear that this article, which would substantially change the conditions for the initiation of the investigation itself, is no longer available. The amended first paragraph since it now provides in Article 167 of the CAP that an investigation should be initiated against a person if it is justified to suspect that he has committed a crime. Nothing to talk about right now. Always. However, if this is the case, then we have specific provisions, reduced procedure and so on, but here is the main provision on the Criminal Procedure Act, which lays down the conditions for the initiation of the investigation, and because this was really too much and because there were too many doubts, the proposaler, the Ministry of Justice, went back here, this article was deleted after the public debate, so that the conditions for initiating the investigation do not change. [[…]] Getting some evidence, yes, but it seems essential to me that this is highlighted, and this has also had a significant impact on my own decision whether to vote in favour of this law or not. It is precisely that the conditions remain the same, so that there are not, indeed, too many far-reaching consequences that such a change could have for the rights of a witness or, above all, a suspect in criminal proceedings. And since it's part of this set, I mentioned it here. The conditions for the investigation therefore remain unchanged and the opinion of the profession, which was expressed in the public debate, was taken into account here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u99	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you. I'll try for a while. Dr. Gorenak, first of all, this amendment of yours about the evidentiary standard and oral orders. With regard to the oral provisions, these already exist, I think, since 1998, when the first investigation measures were incorporated into the law and there was this possibility. On several occasions, the reasons explained earlier by the Secretary of State are operationally necessary, and the Constitutional Court has already verified this and has never challenged it. As far as the evidence standard itself is concerned, I will be honest, but here this obvious proverbial attitude has not helped me, I have, at the Ministry we have advocated a higher standard, this is the subject of coalition coordination, the authorities of detection and prosecution have wanted otherwise, the Legislative and Legal Service has not objected to this, but the fact is that the case is now linked to one other case before the Constitutional Court, and we will see how it will be decided. Of course, I think it would be better if the standard were higher, but it is also necessary to look at the gradation that we have legitimate reasons to suspect really for the worst things. As far as the Special Investigation Department is concerned, however, yes, the murder will be investigated by a criminalist, as will the criminal judge who commits the crime, the judge, as the prosecutor is being prosecuted, of course not by the same unit and so on. Mother, Rehbock and the Constitutional Court's decision lays down specific conditions for investigating the offences committed by the State by abuse of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u101	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much. With our amendment, I'm the one who's making the call. Most, when we listen to the coalition as well as to the government, claim that things have been resolved through the process, that amendments, including the deletion of Article 57 with the other amendments, have resolved the concerns that I do not agree with, of course. In concrete terms, despite the deletion of Article 57, the provisions in question remain in law, such as obtaining evidence, powers and hearings for the execution of individual tasks, that is still in there, and these are things that the Legislative and Legal Service also points out. Among other things, it is still stipulated that a police hearing will be a formal evidence – that is true, so there is no other option – even without the presence of a supporter, provided that this is recorded in a sound and graphic manner. The government argues that these changes will not be problematic, has repeated this several times today, and that the arms relationship will be provided, inter alia, with the possibility of looking into all the collected evidence and material at any time during the procedure. This should be ensured by Article 16 of the draft law, which provides that the suspect and the defence counsel have the right, prior to hearing in the pre-trial procedure, to look at the material and evidence that the police state or state as a basis for suspicion, that is to say that the suspect has committed or participated in the commission of a crime. At the same time, it is specified, and this is what is important at the moment that this access may be limited, as I have already stated in the question, if any serious threat to life or to the body — okay — is understandable — or — and this is what needs to be underlined — if this would prejudice the execution of the forecasting procedure. Thus, in our view, the provision is too broad, very wide and allows the suspect to be heard, for the first time without having the opportunity to look into the file, and for the second time to be heard even without the presence of the advocate. We have heard expert opinions on this, including in the public presentation of opinions and so on. Once again, I will stress what was the point of our Legal and Legislative Service, which points out, inter alia, that the right of access to the file held by the defence counsel and the accused throughout the criminal proceedings stems from the fundamental legal guarantees that the defendant has in criminal proceedings, namely that he has the opportunity to prepare his defence and defend himself or with the lawyer. This is Article 29 of the Constitution. At the same time, it points out that the defendant is unable to perform his defence function successfully if he is not allowed to learn all the facts and evidence that the accused is charged with, or if he is allowed to do so only at a later stage of the proceedings. For this reason, we have proposed deleting this Article. I don't see how we could have solved this mess differently, and I don't, in any way, accept what has so far been the arguments of the Ministry or the government, because these doubts and concerns remain. I think that this thing is, as I say, one of the key articles, one of the five that is supposed to be disputed in this law that needs to be eliminated, or it will be the thing that is going to hit everyone who is going to have to apply this law, and first of all those who are going to be on the weaker side of this process. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u103	Mr. Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. It's paradoxical in this situation that I don't know if we can hear each other or not. Once again, I would like to point out that you have no right so far. She's not here. And we now make it illegal for a suspect to have this right in the pre-trial procedure. The opinion of the Legal Service refers to criminal proceedings and Article 29 of the Constitution refers to defendants, i.e. the stage in which the prosecution or the judicial investigation takes place. Nowhere in the world [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm afraid your time has run out, but I think Dr. Vatovec has heard and understood you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 16? I believe the debate was general, but we still have to follow procedure. I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 16. We continue the debate on Article 40 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We continue to discuss Article 41 and the amendments made by the Left Group to Article 41, which is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 42, so we will discuss the amendments to these articles together, even though we have already done so. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm guessing yes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u106	It's about what I think needs to be fixed. Right now – what? Someone calls the operator and says, "Hello, Officer Francel, give me the information on that number." Or send an e-mail, give me that information. This has to be put on a secure e-mail and nothing else. Simply put, this has to be put on a secure e-mail to let the operator know that this mail came from the police, for sure. And that he wouldn't think again, whether he came or he didn't come. In short, in this context, we make these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u107	I did not finish before, I put to the debate paragraphs 41st, 42nd and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors and the SDS Group, as mentioned by Dr Gorenak. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I'm putting paragraph 43 into the debate. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 43 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 44 and 46, we will discuss the amendments to this Article together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 43, 44 and 46 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. On behalf of the Left Group, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will speak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u108	Thank you. I think that we have not mentioned in this debate today what we are trying to resolve in Article 43, these are so-called IMSI hunters, some technical means that are currently illegal, which the police can use to intercept a mobile phone signal to detect a person's phone number. So, now, let's say around your apartment they put this device, in different locations it's set up, and by some key to shutting down and locating, if they suspect you're in these locations, then they can figure out what your number is with some site. Many times it has happened, these IMSI hunters have been in use for quite some time, although their use is not allowed. These matters then appear in various records or writings as a well-meaning hint of friendly citizens who say what this telephone number is. This has been covered up so far and is now trying to provide some legal basis for this provision in Article 43 of the IMSI hunters. The fact is that this is some kind of system of repression, that we can be under control all the time, that unauthorized people can detect our location, which is our phone number and so on, and that this is some measure that is not exactly proportionate or excessive, as far as this law is concerned. I think that the specific comments made by the Information Officer concerning the use of these devices are also sufficiently clear, all the problems encountered with the use of such technical means are also justified, and this, of course, means that in practice not only will the control of the suspect be increased, but all those in the vicinity will be subject to increased control. As I said, this device scans the signal of all the phones located at that location, if we're talking about a larger public event, it could be a thousand or more people, say, on Monday, 20,000 in the Congress Square. So this is a very invasive measure, a measure which does not only concern a suspect, but covers virtually all persons in its vicinity, and the possibility of abuse is even greater in such cases. For this reason, our amendment proposes that this article should be deleted, that the possibility of using IMSI hunters should also be deleted and that this law at least partially corrects itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you. I must admit that I did not understand this debate, which article you discussed or what you were defending, but well, we will see a magnetogram. But you're wrong about the IMSI-catchers. Why? Because it's one of the simplest things you should have been using for 10 years because of me. 10 years ago they bought these devices and then, for various reasons, even political ones, there was no use of these technical means. You know, if he captures that neighborhood, because of me, he can capture thousands or 20,000, that's irrelevant. It's important that you find the number you're looking for. Technically, I'm not going to explain how this works now, but if anyone's interested, maybe someone else in this room can tell him, not just me. It's about three, four locations where they assume you're going to stay, put these hunters up, and then after the elimination system comes to your phone number. I am more concerned than using IMSI-catchers that in the last 10 years, in the vast majority of police documents at the point, I stress, at the point where you have to tell me where the police got the phone number, you find some official note where it says, an unknown person trusted us with a phone number and this is that the owner is the one. Ah, come on! I'm afraid the IMSI-catcher was used, but then they wrote that an unknown person was transmitting data. If someone gives me your phone number, I can tell you who forwarded it, right? It's not like the police are going to fall apart saying that an unknown person trusted the police with a phone number. In short, I support this matter. If you happen to have an amendment to delete IMSI-catchers, you will not get our support, it is clear that no, because this thing is really necessary. But I don't know, Minister, Secretary of State, whether there's still reasonable suspicion in there or not, for God's sake. [[…]] Okay, if it's not, it's okay. In fact, there must be a simple suspicion here, not a reasonable suspicion, as you had at the beginning. At 149.b., where there was more sensitive information, where you called, when you called, how much time you talked, and there you had a simple suspicion. That's where the reasonable doubt is if you ask me. So I have to say some things at this point for the sake of the law, but I've already said the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u112	The Minister, despite the fact that you have responded and that you have explained that if a police officer is also considered to be the worst crimes of the police, as the prosecutor is treated by the prosecutor, as the judge is treated by the judge – by the way, if you accidentally missed it, the judge of a court in Ljubljana has treated her colleague from the same criminal department, which you have today in the media, so much because of the news – I personally disagree with all 30 years of working experience in the police. And I'll tell you again that a murder suspected of being a police officer is being handled by a police officer. We can't lose the standard we've already had. For 10 years in this country, police officers are considered by a special department in the prosecution. Ten years goes by. But it is true that the treatment of these people is too harsh. In fact, for the smallest crimes in your free time, let's say a carambole, which is a crime, not a crime, or a crime of material harm, can also be a crime, whatever, and it can happen to any of us, to any of us — that the prosecutors treat it with no connection! Because there's gonna be an investigative judge, a prosecutor, and someone else coming to see the scene of a car accident. I do not agree with the fact that if a police officer — I do not know what kind of case to give — commits a minor crime of social danger, I will say, outside the office, but with a neighbor there is, in his own words, one custodian for a pumpkin, so it is not necessary for a special section of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana to be dealt with by some criminalists from the police administration. Today, however, a special department of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana must be moved. Once again, yes, it is necessary to go to the police and it is right that the article is open, it is right to put police officers in the role they play in Europe. There is one master's job done to me many years ago, not much, four, five years ago, which represents a comparative overview of the situation across Europe, and nowhere is it as sharp as in Slovenia right now. It is therefore appropriate that this article be softened. However, ladies and gentlemen, because of you, for the sake of the public and the police – what it says today and what we are about to accept today is wrong. Why is it wrong? Because if a police officer comes to the first store in a civilian, and, as I said before, put a sandwich in his pocket and pass the register, he will be dealt with by a special department in Ljubljana. Special Branch of the Prosecutor's Office. It's just a sandwich. But when this same policeman kills his wife at home this afternoon, forgive the expression, but he'll be dealt with by a fellow police officer, and that's not right. And that's not right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u113	Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 59 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 72 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you. Just for a little while, our last amendment today. The Novela proposes a change in the conduct of the house investigation. This proposal provides in a new way that this investigation may be carried out if the person whose residence or premises are being investigated or his representative is not available in such a way that he is appointed by the court by an officer acting on an official duty from his lawyers. I have previously forgotten to mention, another warning from the Legal and Legislative Service and another provision of the Constitution, namely, Article 36 provides guarantees for the investigation of dwellings and other premises, including the right to be present in the course of the investigation by the person whose residence or premises are being investigated or his representative. So, just these two. So you as the owner of the apartment or your attorney, that is, the lawyer. The law introduces that the court can only decide on official duty if someone is not at home, if I say so, which is not to say that in any case they would not be able to come properly, even among those suspects who want to hide and use precisely these legal mechanisms, but on the other hand, there is a provision which is at least apparent, if not almost certain, contrary to what is enshrined in the Constitution. We're also trying to fix it by deleting it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u115	Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 77 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 93 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting the amendment of the NSI Group to a new 141.a. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 145 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We continue and move on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTATION LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE Regular PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Magi Minister for Justice. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go, Minister Mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u116	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Since we have already held a general debate on the proposal for this law and there is also a very positive debate on the committee responsible behind us, I will be brief. The proposed novel presents the first systematic substantive supplement to the Human Rights Ombudsman Act since its adoption in 1993 and significantly strengthens the constitutional institution of the Ombudsman. If the proposal is adopted as proposed, together with the amendments, the Slovenian institution of the Ombudsman will acquire status A under the Paris Principles on the status of State institutions for human rights, and thus the possibility of full participation in international mechanisms for the protection of human rights, thereby indirectly increasing the informal control power of domestic supervisory authorities. The creation of the Human Rights and Human Rights Centre Council, which will operate within the framework of the Ombudsman, will strengthen the impact of plural civil society, science and relevant institutions on the identification of development policies and human rights protection priorities in Slovenia. Another important aspect of the bill is the formalisation and establishment of a clear legal basis for the advocacy of children, which will work within the Ombudsman. It was a formalization of a pilot project that lasted for 10 years, called the Advocate – the voice of the child, and which was praised by all sides and stakeholders. The advocacy will be carried out as it is now through a network of child advocates. This does not mean the possible establishment of a new mechanism aimed at children, but mainly the upgrading of the existing mechanism, which has been well implemented for 10 years, but which did not have a sound financial structure and a clear legal basis. Nor should we take this advocacy as an intervention in the competence of the authorities, who are already obliged to pursue the best interests of the child in their decision. At the end of the presentation of the law, I would like to point out that this proposal, although short, brings important institutional changes in the implementation and protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, it will not in itself solve the problems that we are undoubtedly still facing in this society, but its long-term effects, I believe, will be positive. In view of all the above, I propose that you support the law and that you also vote on the law at today's meeting of the National Assembly, of course if business conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u117	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee, I invite Mr Jan Škobernet, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Justice considered the law in question at its 41st session 5. 9. 2017, in the debate, opposition Members and Members pointed out that the Ombudsman's recommendations from the annual and special reports were too many times heard by the State and its authorities, and they felt that it would be more appropriate to give the Ombudsman the tools in the form of binding measures, not just recommendations. In doing so, the representative of the proposer made further clarifications in the light of the comments made and said that the draft law was created in cooperation and agreement with the Ombudsman, while coalition Members and Members added that the current government was regularly responding to the Ombudsman's recommendations. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text before you has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u119	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at the 31st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on collective actions within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Mag. Clemens. Here you go, Minister Mag. Klementzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u120	Fourthly, thank you very much for the word, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The law before you represents the first comprehensive and systematic regulation of collective actions in the Republic of Slovenia, so-called class action. In the Republic of Slovenia, it is not possible at present to apply collective claims in the sense that, on the basis of an action by one claimant, such as a consumer organisation, a non-governmental organisation, a civil initiative, a trade union or if you want a state defence attorney, for the time being, payments could be made, such as the return of purchases, reduced purchases or reimbursements of compensations, reimbursements in the event of excessively charged services or benefits, and thus more consumers or other injured persons. A group or collective action gives an individual or group of individuals the power to claim its right from a potential monopoly, corporation, environmental polluter or employer. This right is claimed faster, more efficient and cheaper. Often the characteristic of such mass injury is that individual claims are low. While the right to judicial protection in individual proceedings remains theoretically ensured, the disproportionateity between the value of the individual application on the one hand and the costs of the proceedings, the length of the proceedings and the power of the organisation normally sued, or the firm normally sued, of course, is such that these cases often do not occur. The proposal before you seeks to improve access to judicial protection and to ensure the exercise of the rights of individuals who have been violated in the event of mass injury, as well as, and this is important, to deter potential offenders from unlawful conduct and at the same time to dispel individual courts due to too many separate actions brought in the event of mass injury. We are talking about consumer disputes, environmental disputes, labour disputes and disputes in the area of so-called antitrust or monopoly. The proposal for a collective action law introduces and regulates a collective action in a way that will allow for the collection of individual claims and their joint enforcement before a court in civil proceedings, thereby increasing the bargaining power of potential applicants and contributing to the effective implementation of judicial protection, as it is possible to avoid a number of proceedings relating to claims based on the same legal infringement. The application of the principle of the active role of the courts will ensure that the interests of the injured are adequately protected in the proceedings. The scope of application of the law covers, as mentioned earlier, the most typical conflicts of mass violations that we have witnessed in Slovenia in recent times. Therefore, violators are often motivated to act unfairly on the market, for example by violating consumer rights or by violating competition law, by violating environmental rules, as this often reduces labour costs, for example by violating workers' rights, and thus makes themselves available, while at the same time endangering the position of others acting in accordance with the law. These are disputes in the area of consumer contracts, disputes over other consumer rights, labour disputes, as well as environmental disputes. We are confident that the development of judicial practice regarding this institution in the future can lead to expansion in other areas, and that the proposal will make an important contribution to the protection of individual rights and also to the fairer functioning of economic operators operating in the Slovenian space. I certainly believe that the new system regime will have strong preventive effects in addition to the effects already described or mentioned. In short, if you confirm the law today along with the proposed amendments, I am sure that together we will take an important step for an individual and that unfair business practices in relation to consumers, infringements of the monopoly, pollution of the environment, collective rights of workers in Slovenia will become more expensive for violators, and for victims, justice and compensation will be more at hand, for the judicial system of procedures more focused, faster and cheaper. To conclude, I propose that a third hearing be held at this meeting of the National Assembly, of course if business conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u121	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor again to Mr Jan Škobernet, who presides over the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u122	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think in the end we'll all deserve to go out for a cup of coffee together. In short, the Committee on Justice, at its 41st meeting, considered the proposal for a law on collective action as a work force. Like today, the opening presentation was presented by Minister Klemenčič. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, in her introduction, added that the bill was well prepared and the comments made in their written legal opinion that they had been duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In addition, the State Councillor, Mr Fite, presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which not only supports the bill but welcomes it. The only negative comment came from the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, which was considerably delayed until the bill was proposed. They are concerned about the fact that, in their view, the applicant has shown no confidence in the lawyer’s profession by disregarding most of their comments. In their view, lawyers are excluded from the function of compensation managers according to the proposed text. With regard to their concerns, it was explained that the applicant had to take into account both the European Commission's recommendation and its experience, and in particular the slowdown of countries that have known this type of institution for a long time. In the debate, both coalition and opposition Members and Members agreed that the proposal for a law on solutions needed by the Slovenian legal system was a matter for which we adopted the articles of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u123	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We begin with the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I am very pleased to express my support, on behalf of the Desus Group, for the bill that we have today on the parliamentary bench, which aims to prevent violations of individual rights in cases of mass injury. Thus, a collective action with the above-mentioned proposal also receives the first comprehensive regulation in Slovenian law. The red thread of the bill is that individuals who have been harmed by the same company or organisation will finally be allowed to bring a group action against it. The possibility of applying multiple applications for a single action is established and the courts are thus burdened by individual individual requests of the parties. In the Desus Group, we are confident that this way a number of procedures in relation to claims based on the same legal breach can be avoided. It should also be said that the law will deter future businesses and large systems from even considering how to harm consumers, for example. In other words, the law has major preventive effects. So if banks, pharmaceuticals, construction lobbying or electrical companies are aware of the possibility of collective action being brought against them, this will likely deter them from future damage. They will be aware that even if they cause only a few euros of damage to each injured person, they are at risk of being sued by many victims. In Europe, we know the different arrangements for collective action, and in this area, we are still looking for the right solutions for how to pay consumers who are defrauded or otherwise injured. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that Slovenia has also embarked on the right path to solve these daily negative practices. Together, we can also want Europe to get as close as possible to the United States of America, which is quite a few steps ahead of us in this area. For example, Volkswagen, in the United States, compensation has already been paid to the victims, and Europe is unfortunately faced with countless obstacles. In the Desus Group, we are extremely pleased that the Ministry of Justice has listened to Members of the Desus Group and has also included environmental damage resulting from a major environmental disaster as defined by the law on the environment. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we are increasingly faced with cases like one of the last in Kemis. The fact is that the nearest living have suffered property and property damage, and their gardens and dwellings have been polluted. It was a major ecological disaster, but unfortunately Slovenian law was not aware of the group action at that time, and it is all the more important that the proposal we are considering today, in cases such as Kemis or the lawsuits at the time of the construction of the Mooring Highway, and the lawsuits of 41 Sava farmers against 4 Sava polluters for compensation for damage caused by crops, allow for collective action. In any event, the application of such a system of actions will have an important preventive effect in particular, but of course this will have a positive impact on the legal state's view. Business operators operating on the market will be aware of the possibility of collective actions in the event of unfair business. It should also be said that the provisions of this law will also apply to cases of mass injury that occurred before its entry into force and that the court will make a substantive assessment of whether these claims have already expired or not. As has already been said, in the Desus Group we support the bill. We are also pleased that the proposal of the law was unanimously supported on the home labour body, which proves that such a law is still needed in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u125	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The collective action law represents important progress primarily to enable citizens and citizens to enjoy the rights that they could not, due to objective circumstances, be made more effective today or after the adoption of this law, together with lower costs, especially in an environment where potential violators will already be made clear in advance that they will not be able to rely only on their power and that, above all, consumers, workers and environmental damage remain weaker without support and without formal opportunity to pool their financial and material resources to achieve the right. It is therefore crucial to realize that not only us, but also elsewhere in the world, despite significantly improved standards in all areas, from consumer disputes to environmental protection, there are mass damage and that people do not claim their rights primarily because they fear too much costs because they feel weak because they also have low expectations of low compensation, this is probably not worth it and because they are usually long and difficult against corporations in particular. Thus, the key function of the proposed law is dissuasive. This means that those who are – and here I focus mainly on providers of services in the financial markets, on large environmental harmers – are counting on the possibility that by manipulating and prolonging the abuse of legislation and the weaker situation of people they will succeed in violating, are now clearly faced with the fact that people can use this instrument and that they will have the opportunity, even with low compensation, with even lower costs or even without reaching their right. What, then, does the law allow? It allows for a collective action in the event of consumer disputes, in the case of restriction of competition, infringements on financial markets, in the case of collective infringements of the rights of employees and, of course, in the case of infringements of environmental law. What is not irrelevant is that this law does not mean that we come to a so-called American train in Slovenia or to an American sequel in which lawyers, lawyers, lawyers, go from people to people and urge them to make decisions from a macro point of view important, but from their point of view, totally small or minor lawsuits for matters where only those who actually make the process, and people would at best stay in hand with a coupon for a can of energy drink or two that has already happened. That is why we welcome the law and, above all, we are counting on it to allow a higher level of protection for our environment, to prevent violations of the labour law, which, by hand to heart, has also taken place because of the expected weaker position of workers against larger employers, and that there are enough protective elements within the law that this law will not become a tool of profit, but that it will serve its primary purpose, thus allowing the protection of rights for those who, due to the primary weakness of their rights today, did not want to or could exercise their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u127	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u128	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellows! Not so far back, there have been cases of mass injury caused by monopolies. Let us recall examples of overpayments of electricity and the affair of diesel in the automotive industry. Although the defendants were able to file a joint action, they had a position of co-conspirators and had to pay a court fee on a case-by-case basis. The proceedings were long-term and the costs of court were high and the overall unlawful advantage of the offenders was high. On the one hand, there is great damage, and on the other hand, there is often a great illegal advantage. In New Slovenia, we support the proposal for a new law on collective action, mainly in terms of easier and faster judicial protection of these victims, who are in most cases financially and legally weaker. Therefore, an effective compensation system in the case of mass damage to natural or legal persons is still important. We also point out the essential purpose of this law, which is to deter potential violators from unlawful conduct in all areas covered by the collective action system. The weight of procedural inequality will therefore be tended to benefit the injured in all cases of group injury based on the same factual legal basis. Individual consumers or injured persons will not be parties to the proceedings, but legal protection will apply to their benefit private legal persons who will have to meet legal conditions, including the condition of representativeness. Of course, on the other hand, there must be no undue interference in the implementation of the law with the rights of undertakings or so-called alleged offenders. The contested company will therefore have to prepare its defence well before the collective action is approved, in particular in areas where special knowledge of competition law or rules of trade in organised markets is also needed. We are convinced that in the case of consumer organisations, the court procedure should remain the ultimatum of the case. Since legislation is changing daily in our country, it may be that the apparent illegality is due to a variety of interpretations of the legal rules and a careful assessment will be needed. It is certainly right that the State, the local communities and the holders of public powers are also responsible for their unlawful conduct which harms more victims, of course if the group injury is based on the same factual legal basis. These entities are the first to comply with all legal standards and must not act unlawfully. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a new law on collective action.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u129	The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, good-bye colleagues and colleagues! In Levi, we support the law and the introduction of the possibility of bringing collective action. We have also repeatedly pointed out the increasingly limited access to judicial protection, especially when it comes to the weakest. Although we will not fully resolve this problem with this law, it certainly represents one step towards easier and more accessible enforcement of judicial protection. Many injuries are becoming increasingly the mode of operations of many companies. Consumer fraud, credit fraud or mass injury are perceived by some even as a business model, largely due to an unsuspecting desire for profit, and partly due to the fact that they are likely to be responsible for the injury, are very low. High court fees, long-term procedures, inadequate access to legal aid are certainly the reasons for such a business model. Basically, if I hurt thousands and three of them get a lawsuit, I'm still on the profit side. In these cases, the possibility of collective action is a threat to undertakings that there is a high or at least greater likelihood that the damage will not be paid to them. The collective action reduces the costs of judicial proceedings and court fees, allowing all the injured persons to be jointly opposed to those who have been harmed, and this certainly means a major positive change. In Levika, we also proposed 3 additions on the parent committee, which would further improve the proposed arrangements. Two of the proposed improvements were also supported by the coalition. We are pleased that the coalition agrees with our view that it is necessary to allow a collective action to be brought back. There is absolutely no reason for all those whose claims have not yet expired to bring an action. In Levica, we are pleased that our addition to the collective action will also be justified by the injured persons who have hired loans in Swiss francs for the fraud of banks, and those who have suffered damage due to the fire in Kemis, and of course all others who have been victims of mass injury and would have been more vulnerable to compensation themselves. But I don't understand why the coalition has changed its mind about another proposed supplement. We have also proposed in Levica that the country should take its part in its responsibility, so that collective action can also be made possible for claims under the State's liability for unlawful conduct. The State's liability for compensation stems from the Constitution itself. It is totally incomprehensible that the country avoids this responsibility. Deleted, damaged by the deletion of subordinated bonds and damaged by misinterpretation of legislation and so on, they should also be able to file a collective action. Each time the government, the national assembly and the state authorities could have done otherwise if that possibility had existed. You agreed with this on the committee, and you supported our amendment, but now you've obviously changed your mind and proposed deleting this provision. We hope you'll reconsider. Indeed, there is no reason for the country to avoid its responsibility. There is no significant difference between those who have been harmed by credit in Swiss francs and those who, for example, have been harmed by the deletion of subordinate bonds. Both of them were injured. Both have the right to claim compensation. In both cases, it was mass injury. Actually, there's only one difference. One group was brought around by banks and the other brought around by the state, but this cannot be the reason for the first to allow a collective action to be brought and not by the others. The Minister himself said it was a political decision. It is not about the concerns of the legislative service or the vague and non-systematic regime, it is about the issues of legal nature, it is about a political decision, whether the State should be responsible for illegal conduct. In Levika, we are convinced that the country must assume its share of responsibility, and if it does take over, it depends on the coalition and, in the first place, on the party which presented the strengthening of the rule of law as a pedestal of new, modern policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u131	Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, once again welcome from my side! The current Slovenian legal system does not offer the possibility of collective enforcement of applications for duty, so that more consumers or other injured persons can be paid on the basis of a single action, but we know more and more cases where many individuals are injured in a similar way, either in the area of contractual or non-contractual legal relations. Today's review of the bill on collective action brings many solutions that will in practice eliminate a number of distaste for the protection of the rights of group injured individuals in judicial proceedings. The changes introduced by the collective action law will also affect the behaviour of potential violators, so we can say without reservation that solutions will also have a dissuasive effect. This proposal regulates disputes in a wide range of areas, such as consumer disputes, the area of prevention of restriction of competition, infringements on the financial instruments market, and solutions allowing the submission of claims by workers which could otherwise be enforced by a separate action in an individual labour dispute. I am pleased to say that the bill also provides a basis for lodging claims for compensation for environmental accidents. In the Modern Centre Party, we are certainly pleased with this proposal to adopt systemic changes, which in many cases will provide a legal basis for the proper integration and participation of individual victims in relation to customers who are generally stronger economically and economically. It is likely that all of us are present when we hear of a case where there has been an injustice, but at the same time we are trying to understand that these people will eventually decide on a trial which, in addition to their longevity, would cause a person to pay a number of costs, despite the fact that it is a low claim for compensation. In particular, due to such cases, which have recently proved to be common, Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party believe that it is necessary that such a bill on collective action be brought to life and thus put an end to a number of obstacles in practice and facilitate the difficult situations in which many individuals are found, so we will support the collective action law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u133	Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u134	Thank you very much. In a lot of words and after a lot of reading for this pay phone, I'm going to be relatively short. The collective action law will be supported by us. Why would we do that? Because we are not going to coalitions: opposition, but we are going to question what is good for people and what is bad for people. And where it's bad for people, we're against it, just like we were at the previous agenda. And where it's about things that are better for people, we support them. The collective action law is domestically stated despite everything we have just heard, and today we have 500, 100, 1,000, or I do not know how many cases or thousands of cases that are identical, and each individual has to take his or her own procedure. The law coming will bring about a situation where, under certain conditions, it is possible for this group of people to collectively achieve their right in court, and that is good. But we haven't checked, you know, whether Mr Klemenčič was in any political organisation, and that doesn't matter at all. Like some young people, but that's irrelevant. The important thing is that he wrote a good law that we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u135	We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD and the Levica Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I understand he wants to discuss Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I would not read now because I read when we represented the position of the Group of Members, but I will tell you what the purpose of this law is, that it does not seem as if we do not understand it, even though it may seem to us that we understand it, even though we have not been in any kind of organisation. I haven't been to any of those where you were, Comrade Gorenak, and it doesn't matter at all. Let's stop this once, because he's just a justice minister, he's always on a flight — you can't help yourself if you don't. What is the meaning of the collective action law? I was a judge, and I know the Law of Justice, and the first thought was, what is the point of this, if we can have more people after the Law of Justice, more defendants sue one party, that is possible. But gaining this law is — that viewers will understand — that under the collective action law, the one who is injured will not be a party to the proceedings at all, but will be sued for him, for several injured persons by someone who can be their representative who can initiate proceedings instead. I've seen it quite a bit in the proceedings, we have situations in life, and now they've been exposed, and this has also been quite evident in the proceedings, when someone may simply not be paid to file an action, because it's a small amount, but if all these amounts were collected together, it would be as much a dispute as possible. Secondly, although we may be able to bring proceedings, to file an action, to start a small-value dispute, we simply cannot deal with it because there is too much cost, too much time, because every dispute is a court dispute which is governed by rules, perhaps reduced, perhaps a little simplistic in a small-value dispute, but it is a court dispute in which we have to comply with all the rules of the Judicial Procedure Act. This has been a hindrance to procedures at all, but those who may be conscious that I will not say it on purpose now, in certain cases, are willing to harm consumers and rely on it. Therefore, it is important that this preventive effect, especially that the person now legal or physical, is usually legal to cause this harm, knows that in this case there will be a weapon with which the injured will be able to fight it, and that is this preventive effect that is essential to me. It is also important that the law lays down mechanisms whereby the injured person may decide to extend the effect of the judgment to him or not. He can say that he will not, depending on how the court calls him, can certainly be excluded from this procedure. However, this is also one way that all of these proceedings, which are essentially the same, in which the same legal question is concerned, should they already take place before a court, but in the case of a substantive solution within one procedure, that is to say, the burden of the courts. Of course, the content is not all compensation disputes, but the law specifies exactly what the content is, when can, which compensation claims for content are even possible to file a collective action, are defined, mentioned, consumer disputes, environmental damage and the rest mentioned. The Minister mentioned that it is likely that, depending on how the case will appear in practice, this spectrum, this actual jurisdiction or the substantive jurisdiction of the courts in the case of collective actions will spread, but it is only right that we begin somewhere. It is important that the law also allows collective settlement, that there is no case at all before a court, that we do not have a lawsuit and a whole mechanism that will be launched in connection with this collective action to resolve the matter earlier. I hope that this will be as much as possible, I always say that everything that is being resolved outside the court costs significantly less time and nerves and everything, the resolution in the court is then increasingly difficult, in the case of collective actions, although someone else will appear on behalf of the injured party, but still this is a court case. What still needs to be stressed and what is very welcome to me and what I am also kind of proud of is a procedure that is possible under the collective action law, namely a collective drop-off action in the event of discrimination. This is provided for in the second paragraph of Article 2 of the collective action law. It is said that “in the field of protection against discrimination, only collective leave of action” is permissible. This means, at home, that we will not be able to file an action for compensation for discrimination that would have been caused to us, but which is very important, but we can file a collective drop-off action. On what discrimination is, however, we have other rules that provide for this in our domestic legal order, and this will have to be relied upon by the court. The provisions of the collective action law are very interesting. I think that – although not tabled under this Article – it is necessary to inform the public that this possibility exists because there are still many problems with the enforcement of instruments prohibiting discrimination. This provides for a special preliminary procedure, an abandoned action means that the injured person may request that the person causing discrimination cease this act. This can be done in the case of repeated cases of discrimination, described in detail in the law. An obligation is provided for, prior to the filing of the action, the person concerned must give written notice to the person who intends to sue him in writing that he will file a collective action for dismissal if that person does not cease to act in an inadmissible manner. So, in a way, there's one warning that I believe will have its weight, but if the person who does this doesn't stop discrimination, then the lawsuit will follow. It is important to highlight the content of the judgment. If it finds that the application is justified, the court in its judgment finds that there is a case of discrimination which violates collective rights, it shall order the defendant to cease such conduct and to prohibit it from doing so in any way or in the future. In addition, the court may decide, in the context of a plea, if the applicant proposes to do so, to publish the judgment at the costs of the defendant or to publish a correction of inadmissible advertising if it considers that it contributes to the mitigation or removal of the harmful consequences of the infringements. Another possibility that I am sure will cheer up the four district courts that will now be responsible for collective disputes, that they will now have another legal basis, that they will issue provisional orders, which is very important, because provisional orders are necessary, must be dealt with on an urgent basis, that is to say necessary, and then there will be an opportunity for injured persons to request provisional orders. Article 50 of the Act provides that the court, on a proposal from the appellant, shall, under the provisions of the law on enforcement and insurance, issue a provisional order ordering the defendant to cease the conduct which is detrimental to the common interests of the consumer, which is likely to be interpreted in the light of discrimination, the court may issue a provisional order even if the defendant has not yet begun to act unlawfully, but is just before it begins. This is going to be very interesting. In general, I need to give my opinion on the collective action law. This will be another novelty for the courts, I think the courts will like you very much, Mr Minister. Certainly, it will be an important novelty that the courts will have to deal with, but in the long term it will also be one tool that will help them to deal with more focused cases with the same content. However, it will be interesting to see how this legal practice will begin at the beginning when the first proceedings begin, develop what will be the problems, what will happen, but this is normal when the new institute, the new procedure, is introduced. I think that these problems will also be overcome and that the collective action system will be well established, and if necessary, changes will also be introduced. So that we can absolutely support and I am pleased that we have such a high consensus in the National Assembly on this law and that we can be even more confident in this way that we are accepting the right thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u137	I find that there is still an interest in the debate. Please report to the debate. The application shall be made. My word, Mrs. Marjano Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I expected more of us to sign up. I would like to say a few words about this law, because I also think that the collective action law is very important for citizens. After the performance of Jasna Murgel, who explained the whole law in detail, I don't think I have much left, but I'm going to repeat some things. As such, the law improves access to justice in cases of infringement of rights by individuals in cases of mass injury. This law is also important because, in recent times in our country, mass damage has indeed occurred and this injury has become a mode of operation for individual companies, and that is what my colleague Violeta said earlier, and I think that is very true. The law introduces and regulates a collective indemnity action in a manner that will allow for the collection of individual claims and their joint enforcement by one action before a court in civil proceedings. And if I add again, in which cases it is possible to file complaints under the collective action law, we will be able to file collective actions when there is a collective infringement of labour law, when there is a violation of rights by a large number of citizens in the field of environmental law, damage to consumers in all matters relating to trade and other consumer matters, as well as to the infringements we are experiencing in the field of financial markets. I would also like to draw attention to the collective settlement that the law allows. It is also an important institute that will allow us to settle with the offender and will be concluded much earlier, it will be much cheaper, it will cost us nothing, and the court will not be burdened with these proceedings. The law is certainly very welcome and we are happy in Desus, I have already said in my position that the Ministry has also listened to the proposal that we have made for collective action to be introduced in the field of environmental legislation infringement. We'll be happy to support this marriage in Desus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u139	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. There's no minister to greet him. Dear fellows and fellows, a very nice greeting! In view of the fact that many words were intended for the content itself in the recitals, there would not have been much to the content, but in contrast to the previous or preliminary point in relation to this bill, the Ministry of Justice and the Minister himself would have really commended, in particular because the so-called legal void had been eliminated by the introduction of this proposal and, as has been the case with the previous debaters, the so-called collective application of the tax applications was ensured. I am sure that I am also joining the fact that there has been a lot of agreement or consensus on the parent board of all, if I may say so, of the groups of Members on the need for the regulatory regulation of this matter in the Slovenian legal space. Furthermore, it is very encouraging that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made it very clear that the drafter of this law has indeed eliminated all those concerns that have arisen with regard to this law in the preceding stages. Perhaps a little bit of ambiguity is precisely with regard to the shareholders involved, in particular I have in mind the judicial body, in this case the Slovenian Bar Association, which has been shown to have been very actively involved in the previous process, but after its assessment its key points were not met. I am of the view that the Ministry of Field Affairs, as far as this is concerned, is very good and has also argued professionally why it did not take into account all their comments. And if I conclude this part very well-intentionedly, it is certainly also welcome that the Council of Justice has taken a very positive view of the need for this law. I would touch just one more word or one more piece, which somehow was not so strongly exposed. The fact is that the substance of this law is mainly concerned with these legal and unfair procedures. What needs to be repeated several times – especially since the enforcement of this law certainly has certain weaknesses, because I do not know how this has happened so far – is that for so-called consumers or whatever that occurs on the market and for their protection it is necessary to provide so-called legal matter. The area that is most pronounced and has so far not been covered is also called consumer protection, which has already been mentioned several times. I would also touch on areas that are mainly concerned with the rights of different investors. Then we have different services here that are in the area of financial services. Certainly a special category is also the area of environmental protection, which has also been very frequently exposed to the parental committee. Furthermore, I think that we are neglecting not only in a specific law but also in the general debate the protection of competition. Finally, what I have to admit is that it is not often heard in this national assembly, including on the parental committees, a violation of the protection of workers' rights. This material is certainly being affected and affords greater so-called protection or security in further procedures. However, I would like to conclude, as far as such material is concerned, with a summary of one of the media that is in the past not so much ago, by writing: “Collective actions – a new means of ensuring compliance with the rules of conduct on the market”. I think that this is a very strong message when I talk about the title itself, because we need to be aware that there are three very large or important areas in recent years or in the last year – in particular what is waiting for us now and now there are many activities – which, if I may say, are very large or important areas, especially for citizens, citizens and also legal persons. The first is certainly the register accounts that the National Assembly or the parent committee has already faced, and the fact is that with these register accounts, I think all those who follow this matter are really waiting for a decision of the Constitutional Court regarding the authentic interpretation, I think I will not be quite mistaken, Article 48 of the Law itself. Furthermore, it is on the legal basis of this law that we have a binding deletion of the exchangeable bonds and shares that were the subject of the recapitalisation of state-owned banks, we know, years ago, in 2013. In this respect, as is known, the Ministry of Field Affairs must draw up a legal basis relating to the implementation of the Constitutional Decision on this very matter. What is more, it is necessary to ensure to all citizens who have been in these processes in one way or another and who are or believe that they have been harmed through so-called collective actions as well. Last but not least, what has been quite in the media lately, the so-called person or credit agreement, is the Swiss franc bond ratio. That is why it is still important and necessary for this law to be practically processed, and therefore I am very glad that there is a great consensus in the National Assembly, regardless of the so-called political affiliation. However, let me conclude by saying that the amendments that have been tabled must be supported, in particular by that article relating to environmental protection, because we have recently known that certain accidents have taken place, and that is why it is imperative to have a legal basis for the exercise of these rights. In short, I support both the law and the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u141	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I have also heard that this committee has been extremely cooperative, which is rarely happening, and that the Committee has adopted even two of the three amendments that we have proposed in Levica. Both complements significantly improve the law, even amending the transitional provision to ensure that collective actions can be brought by all those whose applications have not yet expired. So also for damages that occurred prior to the entry into force of this law. This is good, so compensation will be required by those who were injured when they rented loans in Swiss francs, as well as by the victims of the fire in Kemis and so on. By filing a collective action, they will certainly be able to be more successful, as this will make group action easier, cheaper. But unfortunately the second solution already adopted by the amendment of the Left, which means that the State, municipalities and public authorities would be responsible for the injury, although there is absolutely no valid reason why collective action could not be brought against the State, and even though the Minister said it was only a political decision, despite the fact that the amendment had already been adopted on the Committee, the coalition now wants to delete this provision. I do not understand why there would be any difference between the people who have been bribed by the bank as savers and borrowers and the country which has tricked the citizens into deleting the bonds. Let's be honest. Why would they discriminate against the victims? In particular, the State is the first one to accept responsibility, for this also comes from the Constitution. The right to reparation for unlawful conduct stems from Article 26, which is why I really do not know why the coalition has changed its mind this time. Therefore, we do not support the amendment of the coalition that deletes this provision. We oppose the fact that a country that should be an example avoids taking responsibility. We support our amendment to extend the scope in the field of environmental protection. We are pleased that the Ministry of Disaster at Vrhnika has also incorporated the area of environmental protection into the law. We know how important this has been lately and what climate change and environmental disasters we have witnessed, but we are convinced that the ministry has done little in this area. Why? The proposal currently allows a collective action only for the enforcement of compensation for environmental accidents. For example, we cover Kemis with such a dictatorship, but we do not cover all the other environmental damage, and we propose in Levi that this area be extended to compensation for excessive environmental burdens and pollution. So we cover not only Kemis, but also various lafargees, zinc cells and similar cases. In these cases, too, it is always one responsible person or company run by the responsible person and the injured person is a wider circle. This is also a matter of causing damage and it is already possible to seek compensation under the law. So we don't see any reason why we wouldn't even allow a collective action to be brought in this case. This is also the case where we believe that a clear message should be sent to all contaminants to respond to the damage caused. It's also a political decision. Likewise, irregularities would not be afforded so often, and if we were afraid of these actions and knew that this could happen to them, we would of course be more responsible for the environment and their business would already respect these provisions. As I said before, I will not support the amendment of the coalition. I would like the coalition to reconsider and consider that the country is, however, the first in the line of those who have to take responsibility for illegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u143	Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Chairman. This marriage is urgently needed, prepared seriously, carefully, and responsibly. It is rare for Members and citizens to get such detailed insight into the content of public hearing. Many important comments have been taken into account, and the applicant has seriously defended solutions before they lose their appetite, this is rarely the case. But, of course, I still have comments, three of them. Firstly, the scepticism of the imposition of collective redress claims over State illegal conduct is very worrying. Apparently, there are mental reservations in the game, I hope only politicians. Secondly, in some areas, they try to restrict the form of claims only to collective dismissals, even completely anonymising them, for example in the case of discrimination. Such a judgment is hardly beneficial to persons who have been victims of illegal conduct and who protect their interests only in the future. Thirdly, it is possible to enforce all legally recognised damages or claims to remedy infringements of rights from the date of application of the law. This solution is certainly not constitutionally problematic, the purpose of the requirement for effective judicial protection and the provision of effective proportionate and dissuasive sanctions. And the amendments, together. I am not blind to the fact that, at the current stage of a culture of rights or legal positiveism for the majority of society, the most important aspect is the real issue of effective sanctions for infringements. If they're not there, people's rights and rights are being scolded. This is often the case with the country itself, since even in cases of serious, obvious and massive systemic violations in its own sphere, it is best to let those who have the will and the power to do so be sued. And even after the judgments are here, it only acts under the weight of immediate penalties. Therefore, the collective indemnification of the plea makes the plea an essential form of the action. Individual indemnification actions are even the most similar to mosquito peaks for large offenders, and collectively, I hope, at least take them seriously and also have a broader deterrent effect in a general preventive sense. I believe that practice in recent decades has confirmed that mass injury is unfortunately also very common in the conduct of the State or public authorities in the field of human rights protection. An individual alone against a systemic problem cannot achieve almost nothing. This institution could prevent or at least eliminate the calvaries of 10,000 people, such as chronicly long-term judicial proceedings, the agony of the deleted, the forfeiture of judicial protection rights to foreign savers of the Ljubljana Bank, by means of constitutional law, the confiscation of part of pensions, the forced termination of working relationships in public administration after Zujf, the non-removal of wage imbalances and so on. Procrastination by serious protection of human rights is, in any event, significantly more costly and obviously ineffective in solving problems at the mid-term. Collective compensation claims should therefore be made available where necessary and where they will be used most often in real terms due to the risk of mass injury. That is why I strongly support the first amendment of the Left Group already adopted on the home committee, which makes it possible to collectively impose damage caused by the State's unlawful conduct. This was not an easy-to-think idea, but a very responsible decision by the proposer and members of the committee. If a government coalition of parties with a new amendment tries to undermine it afterwards, it is highly suspicious. First, it must be said that the concerns are completely artificial. These claims are by no means in principle inappropriate for such actions. This will be decided by the courts in the certification process and approved only by the enforcement of mass-type infringements. You worry too much about whether the government coalition may have a bad conscience and fear that people will finally take their rights to the country seriously. I also support the amendment to Article 65 tabled by Levic, and therefore I welcome the proposal for a solution adopted by the Home Committee to allow collective action to enforce all claims for damages even before the law comes into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u145	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this. I'm guessing yes, so I'm asking you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'm just going to define myself to all three amendments. Marriage is more than necessary, marriage is welcome. I think that such an institution as a collective action is not just something to follow from cases in other countries, but something that is the basic assumption of ensuring that people have as much access to legal protection as possible. A system such as a collective action that relieves people of the costs associated with individual actions and, on the other hand, increases the likelihood that such an action will succeed is more than welcome. On the other hand, it also means relative pressure on what is the profit motive of large companies, especially multinationals, who can speculate that if they do any damage, they will be less harmed if they are subject to individual actions than collective actions. We are therefore giving such an emphasis to the importance of collective action because, in fact, it has a function of some kind of threat, if I say so in the notes, the threat that more people will come together, is linked to a community, of course, with some particular interest due to some damage to them all, and they will probably also become more responsible in this way of doing so. Not only ecologically, but in all aspects of its operation. If I go to the amendment of the coalition parties to Article 2, those of us on the committee, we have seen that there is a very likely error. Here in Levica we have proposed on the amendment committee, which proposes to extend responsibility to the country as well. Of course, the State has no reason not to be included under this responsibility, which falls under the list of cases in which these collective actions can be enforced. For example, Violeta mentioned them earlier, and I will repeat them again, such as obliteration of the population, subordinated bonds, and so on, where the country, with one single move, has done great harm to the very wide population and population. I think that if we go from the point of view, too, I think that the first country to set an example should be the one to take responsibility for its actions. Individual actions are also, of course, possible in these cases, and people can turn to them, so I do not see why those who have been harmed by the State should be in a different position so that they cannot exercise their rights under a system such as collective action. Last but not least, this is something that should be guaranteed by the Constitution. We know that the country is responsible for the laws it adopts, the local communities for the acts it adopts and so on. As far as our second amendment is concerned, we have already proposed it on the committee, and we now propose it as a prisoner, it is that it expands what is the concept of an environmental aspect of collective action. At present, the proposal is to allow collective action to be brought only for compensation for environmental accidents, i.e. for the direct effect of something like Kemis, but in doing so, the applicant forgets all the harmful effects that not only the heavy industry in general but, in fact, all the polluters in general have. These are examples, including those mentioned earlier by Violeta, the Zincarna or Lafarge, and so on, which overburden the environment with their long-term operation. Even in these cases, these excessive environmental burdens have been on people, not least on children and so on, we are now hearing about lead and similar things again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u147	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Go ahead, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you, Vice President. And these are also the grounds why it should be possible to file a collective action. In these cases, too, people can decide to go to individual actions themselves, and once again I stress if these are cases where an individual can decide to challenge his right in this way, I do not see why they would not extend it to the collective action institute. I think this is exactly in line with what I said at the outset, so allowing people to have as wide an access as possible to seek and acquire their rights, especially for these justified reasons, where direct damage has been caused to them. In some ways, the minister on the committee has called it a political decision, not so much a professional or legal decision, but a political decision, so I will also appeal to your political wisdom or political reflection in this implementation. I repeat, the responsibility of the State and the broader environmental aspect I do not think is a matter of prestige, of who the proposer is. The objectives are very simple and clear, they go to the benefit of the people and the people of this country, and from this point of view, I think there is no political reservation that we should not support these amendments or that which has already been adopted and is now an integral part of the law and that which we are proposing again today. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u149	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Initially, definitions of amendments. Like the forerunner, the Left Amendment will be supported as far as the coalition's amendments are concerned. Unfortunately, I don't know why it's like this today, but tomorrow it's like this. It's the same with us all the time, but there's a change of attitude with you, because you've been changing your position from committee to committee until today, so we're not going to support these amendments. Otherwise, we have to say because of the current topic, the subject of so-called francs or loans in Swiss francs. We at first did not find the possibility of these people being covered by the law, so we prepared an amendment for the committee, but the minister then explained and quoted an article in which these people are covered, so there is no special amendment to the subject of loans in francs, but this matter is already covered by the law and I am happy to find that the situation in this direction can be accelerated now. Especially because so far it has not been possible to file so-called collective actions, they are now supposed to be. Given that some individuals have already succeeded individually in court, as we know, the solution to their problem is in view in a short period of time, and this is a positive solution, and I am pleased to say so. Of course, we will also support the marriage as a whole, as I have foretold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u151	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes, that's why I'm inviting you to report. Check-in is in, please. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I support this bill because I think that collective lawsuits are a great relief for people who are not on the computer every day and who are not in those years when they can afford a lawyer and so on, of course there is no doubt. But as far as the Franks are concerned, I have to give my opinion. Actually, at the time, I took my own apartment loan, and I remember exactly what it was like, so I have a pretty clear picture. Of course, there were also some speculators who thought they would get more to earn, but most of them were actually being cheated by banks that were urging people to borrow in Swiss francs, and there is no doubt that it is right to correct it in some way, as we are on our way now. Of course, it raises another question that is not the subject of this law, but – Banka Slovenije warned that something would happen if you remember and people did not warn. And I'm wondering whose Bank of Slovenia is, is it just a branch of the European Central Bank or is it our body that serves banks and especially people in the country, as they like to say, Croatia. The other is the question of ecology. We are pleased here that the Ministry has immediately taken this initiative around the environment, because these problems are very large. I reiterate that people who have neither the means nor the techniques to sue are affected and that collective protection, if I may say so, is essential and humanly necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u153	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Today is really a nice part of the debate when we talk about the so-called collective action law, because we generally agree. We agree that marriage is necessary, we agree that it brings positive solutions, we agree that in some ways the victims need to be helped, protected, and, of course, some nuances remain. These nuances have already been explained in some way, and I am also personally calling for a coalition here – not the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the amendment of the Left, which just proves that we do not have a problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party with who is proposing the amendments, but we are dealing with their content. It's just that in some ways we're making things worse by deleting things. Of course, we will probably never get to the ideal legislation. Finally, I also agree with what I have read in one of the expert opinions, which emphasises that the law is still needed from the point of view of the attitude of violators, who will be aware that they will not be allowed to violate legislation at any time, because those who are injured will now exercise this right in another way. Previously, it was hoped that the victims would not be able to enforce such or similar requirements with their social status and the life they had. Now this law is also a positive pressure when businesses and everyone else consider how they will behave or whether it is worth respecting legislation or not. We also know that the law is somehow for the benefit of the injured, that this weight of procedural equality is more prone to harm, because it is also a matter of concern, but on the other hand it takes so much more care not to overprotect one another and in some way also to affect the rights of those other potential violators, we do not know if they are violators, even after the cases have broken. I absolutely believe here that the Ministry has had a hard time. Once again, I welcome the amendment that was tabled by the Left, and I am also giving thought to whether this deletion is really necessary, or whether we are not actually able to take this step forward. I would be happy if the Minister would actually tell me that they are afraid of excessive, excessive procedures of this kind. If this is the case, then we must also ask ourselves what kind of country we live in, since it is obvious that these violations are very large, only people cannot defend themselves. That weight is on both sides. But I am happy and I welcome what we have done together on the committee, and this is that we have included in the law also injured persons who are [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] President, it's really hard, I'm trying, I don't mind. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u155	Colleagues, please! I warned you once before. Be respectful to colleague Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u156	Basically, let me finish. When it comes to the matter of francs, that we have found a way to get the matter into law, even from the point of view that, in the oral question that I have just looked at, the Minister's reply was that collective actions will not be taken back, and that there was a dilemma for the injured. I welcome the law, I am also aware that there is a very big responsibility in the country that these are not so simple things. I told you earlier about the scale, I said that no one in this country should be in violation of the right, of the possibility of fair defence, that we must be careful, even when it comes to so-called potential offenders, that we do not bring some things out and put them in public and some procedure too quickly, we know that we can do more harm than good already. Perhaps once again this amendment, however, I support the law, and yes, Minister, when good proposals are made, we will always support them. However, I am pleased that maturity has been shown primarily by the coalition parties that supported the amendment of the Left or similar amendment we had, and that we are also going through what you have said in the oral question that the law will not apply in this sense back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u157	Your Honor, does anyone else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 65 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I invite you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Mrs Teja Ljubič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u158	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I think that, in general, more than enough has been said about the collective action law, so I will limit my debate only to the amendment to Article 65. Article 65 of the Amendment allows the provisions of the collective action law to apply to all those cases of mass injury that occurred prior to the entry into force of this Act. Of course, there are certain questions or dilemmas about the retroactive validity of the law itself. And perhaps for starters, allow me some theoretical introduction so that we can better understand what we're talking about. Legal doctrine distinguishes between so-called law and unfair retroactivity. Given that only unfair or so-called actual retroactivity is relevant to our case, I will focus only on it, which is what it is. In the event of an irregular retroactivity, it is a matter of having an effect on certain actual situations that occurred prior to its publication, but these actual conditions were not yet concluded at the time of the entry into force of the Regulation. In such cases, an individual provision of the law has only an unfair retroactive effect, which I stress can be disputed in terms of the principle of the protection of trust in law under Article 2 of the Constitution, but not in terms of Article 155 of the Constitution, which speaks of the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts. So, if I simplify, the difference between the so-called law and the wrong retroactivity is that the right retroactivity interferes with the rights already acquired while the wrong retroactivity interferes with the expected rights, thus reducing the rights to go forward. Inadequate retroactivity contrary to the right of retroactivity is in principle not prohibited unless, in this case, it would be an unacceptable intervention in the principle of the protection of trust in law. As I have already pointed out at the outset, in a particular case, we are talking about unfair retroactivity. In my view, we can speak of a certain factual situation as a closed factual situation when individual claims for compensation are obsolete, i.e. when no rights can be exercised from these claims. If we were to lay down by law that these provisions could apply only to those cases of mass injury that would occur after this law was enforced, it seems to me that we are putting the victims in an unequal position. Inequality in the sense that compensation claims may only be imposed by those who have been infringed after the application of this law, but not by those who may have been infringed before the entry into force of this law and their claims for compensation have not yet expired. From the point of view of legal certainty, it would be unacceptable if, by law or by means of this amendment, we were to turn these long-standing claims of compensation into obsolete claims, but in fact we are not doing so by means of a bill. The draft law will not be applicable in retrospect, but it will intervene in a lasting relationship that will not be concluded until the law is in force, which in fact means that the right to object to obsolescence in such a case has not yet occurred. I believe that there may also be some arguments against this amendment, and they will be justified by the fact that this is a violation of the principle of the protection of trust in the law, but I would like to point out here the position of the Constitutional Court, which in several of its decisions stated that in the case of the protection of trust in the general legal principle and not directly for one of the constitutional rights, which means that this principle does not apply absolutely and is more accessible to possible limitations than to individual constitutional rights. In the light of everything I have said, it is right not to establish an unequal situation between those injured who may not yet be affected and between those injured who have already suffered violations and their claims have not yet expired. I think it is also right that in some way we should adequately protect all the injured persons, especially from this point of view, because they are victims, whether we want to or not, in relation to offenders or economic operators in some way increasingly weak customers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on road traffic laws, following a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members, with Mr Zvonk Laho, first signed. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Mr Zvonk Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u160	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! With the construction of the highway cross in Slovenia and the implementation of tolls with vignettes, traffic has increased significantly on motorways and fast roads. This has also significantly reduced the number of accidents. For a while there is a significant increase in freight traffic on motorways. As speeds are high, accidents are also significantly worse than on roads where speeds are not as high. In the event of a traffic accident, therefore, it is necessary to provide a life-belt for as smooth access as possible to rescue workers. In the Republic of Slovenia, it is now stated in the rules that vehicles driving through the emergency belt are classified to the left edge of the emergency belt and vehicles on the lane to the right edge of the lane; in the meantime, they provide sufficient width for rescue vehicles. In the event that two trucks are located on the conveyor belt and the conveyor belt and are classified according to our rules, there is less than two metres of space left between them for ambulances. And this is essentially too small, even a police vehicle can't get past, let alone a fire vehicle that measures almost three meters. Therefore, we suggest that this should change; and first you will see how this looks on our roads. A firefighter and an ambulance were also present at the treatment of the parent’s working body. Look, this is what it looks like to us, on our roads, when an ambulance has to get out of the vehicle and drive itself onto the runway, even though it's forbidden by our rules. Also Dars or the road manager, you see, looks like this. [[…]] On the committee, the paramedic said that if a mile [km] was to run like this, the number of vehicles was a very fast - standing column of miles; and when the ambulance reached the scene, it was virtually powerless. This is how our operator travels to get vehicles to be deployed according to our regulations. In this video, trucks or vehicles are substantially wider than those presented here. You see how little space is already between the vehicles; and if there is little space, the lifeguard can't drive at a higher speed. If he wants to drive 60 or 80 kilometers an hour to the site of the accident to have an obstacle on each side, you can imagine what it's like on the toll, where the toll station hasn't been removed yet, how fast you can get there to hope to get there, and I think there's a width of about three and a half feet. How do we get an ambulance if it's 10 cm on each side? That's impossible. If he wants to drive normally 60 kilometers per hour, he needs at least 4 meters and a half between vehicles. It's different abroad. This is what it looks like in Austria and Germany. And here we see that there is more than 4 meters and a half in between. Why does it have to be a free belt? You see, there's enough breadth here. If you've been watching, I've watched foreigners, tourists, when they come to us, drive on our roads. As soon as the column is slowed down, they simply go to the line or even across the lane and provide enough space. With this change of law, we want this to be united, that our drivers, especially trucks, on foreign highways, will not pay high penalties because they are not classified as they are, but as with us; and hinder the way to rescuers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u162	Thank you, President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 32nd session. 9. 2017 as a working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Bell Laho; with a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 101st session. 7. He decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. In the supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, Member Zvonko Lah said that the problems of driving intervention vehicles in the event of emergency on motorways and fast roads have been more intense since 2013. They were the first to be warned by firefighters who had difficulty breaking to the point of intervention between the stalled convoys of vehicles. Since an appropriate legal solution has not yet been drawn up, the proposal proposes that, for vehicles driving along the lane, there should be no changes after the introduction of such an arrangement and should be classified as so far as is the far left; for vehicles driving along the lane, the proposal provides that, contrary to the applicable regulation, it should be classified as a lane or niche and not only to the lane line. This means that in the event of traffic accidents or congestion, drivers would withdraw intervention vehicles to the runway. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that this service had examined the draft law in terms of their competence and added that the comments or concerns of the written opinion, which were mainly of a nomotechnical nature, were eliminated by the amendments tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD, as well as by the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. In his presentation to the government, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, said that the government was aware of the problems of driving intervention vehicles on highways and fast roads; but it did not support the law, as it did not solve all situations in establishing a sufficiently wide lifeline for driving intervention vehicles. The proposal of the law also regulates only the establishment of a life-belt in the event of a traffic jam, but not in the event of a traffic stop. Those concerns were also further explained by the Minister in the debate. The draft law should, in its view, ensure the establishment of a life-belt for the driving of intervention vehicles when vehicles stop; and not only in the event of traffic congestion. In addition, the solution proposed by the bill provides for the establishment of an emergency lane on the highway and a fast road with two lanes for one-way travel; not on motorways and fast roads with multiple lanes for one-way driving. According to the Government’s position, the bill is equally weak because it does not provide for vehicles stopping or standing on the extreme left lane to be classified as far as possible on the left; if necessary, also outside the steering wheel. Vehicles stopping or standing on other lanes shall, however, be classified as far as possible in order to provide a sufficient life-belt for the carriage of intervention vehicles; if necessary, also outside the vehicle, in which case the lane may also be used. At the end of the presentation, the Minister supported the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, which address the shortcomings highlighted by the government. The representative of the Council of State explained that the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supported the proposal of the law. Mr Tomaž Shen of the Voluntary Fire Company, Dolnji Logatec, presented the practical experience of firefighters in intervention on a busy coastal highway. The red thread of the debate of Members was that the proposed legislative change was necessary and necessary and that the legal provision must be clear, unambiguous and correct, legal and nomological and enforceable in all possible concrete situations. Members and members of the Committee have decided to improve the proposed amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, and so has been the amendment of the committee supported by all members of the Committee. The Committee adopted the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 1, as well as its amendment to Article 2, and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Igor Zorcich. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u164	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to present the Government's position in the absence of a minister responsible for this area. These are the main objectives pursued by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act, in order to immediately establish a sufficiently wide lifeline for the safe driving of intervention vehicles in the event of traffic congestion on motorways and fast roads, and to reduce the time taken to deal with damaged road users in traffic accidents. The complementary proposal of the law addresses all situations in the establishment of a sufficiently wide life-belt for safe driving of intervention vehicles in the event of a deadlock, and, more importantly, in the event of stopping vehicles or during the stopping phase. It regulates the establishment of a lifeline on motorways, on fast roads and also on other motorways with multiple lanes, i.e. comprehensively. It allows vehicles driving on the left lane to be classified as far as possible on the left, including on the side of the line; vehicles stopping are on the other lanes and on the right as far as possible, i.e. also on the sideline of the vehicle, meaning that they can also be classified in the lane. With these additions to the law, the right allocation over the line and the allocation to the runway will be ensured, greater traffic safety will be ensured and the time taken to rescue the participants will be reduced. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in this complementary form, also supports such a proposal for legislative amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! So as not to overheat the water where it is actually warm; it is a sound proposal that has been meaningfully improved by amendments to the coalition. However, the adoption of this law will allow for more effective interventions, and I hope that, in cases we do not want, it will also enable faster and better lives and people's assets to be saved. The Social Democrats will, of course, support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! Lifesaving is always a matter of time — minutes, sometimes seconds. Since accidents occur on highways and fast roads, most often for more life-threatening lives and worse injuries, the rapid arrival of rescue workers at the scene of the accident is extremely important. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the existing Road Traffic Rules Act represents a major obstacle to the rapid establishment of a lifeline for the passage of intervention vehicles. Therefore, we have also proposed an amendment to the law which will allow drivers to withdraw to the runway in case of stopping or stopping traffic and thus provide a wider space for the safe and faster passage of these vehicles. We would even pay a fine of 300 euros for the withdrawal of this belt today. This is the case in Slovenia, while in neighbouring countries drivers must withdraw to the runway in such cases. Since the establishment of the lifeline in the Member States of the European Union is not uniformly regulated, but the instructions of highway operators and fast roads are different, there are unsustainable situations. You can imagine what a lifeline looks like when drivers leave different countries. In accordance with the instructions in force in his country, someone withdraws only to the frontal line of the vehicle and others also in accordance with the instructions in force in the country from which he comes. All therefore withdraw correctly according to their national rules. However, intervention vehicles must drive a zigzag to get to the scene of the accident; with much delay and with the efforts of rescuers and firefighters who literally erase the road with their hands. The AMZS also notes that such space distress is totally unnecessary if the motorway has an exit belt. The fact is that this belt was sometimes intended for the carriage of intervention vehicles, while the law in force prohibits its application, except in order to halt or provide necessary assistance. In fact, with the introduction of the life-belt, the belt has lost its former function of driving intervention vehicles and has no function at the time of congestion. Although we have proposed in Novi Slovenija that vehicles should immediately withdraw to the runway in case of congestion or stopping, our aim is also achieved by a solution that requires the driver to withdraw as far as possible to the left or right as possible, including across the line of the steering wheel, i.e. to the lane. Such withdrawals will be lawful for drivers, since they will not pay fines for their withdrawal. 300 Euros of fines for something logical and legal in the neighborhood is really too severe, and above all it is pointless, because drivers are also saving lives by withdrawing to the runway and providing a sufficiently wide lifeline for intervention vehicles. Today is the lives of others, tomorrow may be ours or yours. In the light of the above, in New Slovenia we will support our proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposed law pursues the objective of ensuring an effective, rapid and safe life-belt for intervention vehicles on motorways and fast roads in cases of congestion. Its implementation will shorten the time to rescue the injured in accidents and the time to wait in the deadlock. The current Road Traffic Rules Act does not allow drivers to use the lane in the event of traffic congestion and the establishment of a life-belt for intervention vehicles and thereby make a wider space for the safe and faster passage of these vehicles. In such cases, drivers shall comply fully with the instructions of the operator of the motorway and shall be properly classified in accordance with the law, but the lifebelt shall nevertheless be too narrow. The adoption of the law will allow drivers not to be punished for withdrawing beyond the line of the drawbar in order to ensure sufficient width of the escape belt. In addition to the problem of too narrow escape belt, which is often faced in practice by police officers, firefighters and paramedics, the law also sheds light on the increasingly pressing problem of the oversized cars offered on the market by manufacturers. The introduction of the law very well explains that today cars are so wide that ensuring the appropriate width of the lifeline is very difficult. The lane on the highway is usually three and a half metres wide and two lanes 7 metres wide. On highways this is still going; on local roads it is becoming increasingly common in practice that drivers have to take off the road so that two cars can meet safely. Human immaculateness and ambiguity of the automotive industry dictate the production of ever larger and larger cars. Today’s car sizes are already on the verge of what existing roads can carry. With current trends, it would be necessary at European level to set some limits on the size of cars, if we are serious when we are talking about transport safety. Nevertheless, in Levica, we believe that the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act is good and will help short-term intervention on highways in cases of traffic accidents and, as a result, faster assistance to the injured. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u172	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Representatives and representatives of the government! I could almost literally repeat what my colleague Scoberne has already said. Instead of hot water, I can use the metaphor that colleague Lah and his parliamentary group have proposed a very constructive proposal on the definition of the lifeline after the new. All thanks for this, also thank you for the constructive willingness to improve the text of this Article on the Committee, so that this decision could be taken unanimously. The Group of the Modern Centre Party will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u174	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, and all those accompanying this meeting! Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act, reduced procedure. The proposed amendment and amendment of the law lays down the definition of a life-belt on motorways and fast roads and the obligation of drivers to establish a sufficiently wide life-belt in traffic accidents or other congestions, allowing the unhindered passage of intervention vehicles; whereas for vehicles driving through the emergency lane there will be no change and they will have to be classified on the left side as before. Of course, we support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are aware that every minute when an accident occurs, sometimes seconds are considered to be the time for rescue workers to arrive at the scene of the accident, so we will be happy to support this change of law after a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, Minister and colleagues. Hello, also, Members and Members of Parliament. Today we are considering a proposal for a new Law on Road Traffic Rules, which stipulates that road users who withdraw from intervention vehicles are allowed to withdraw to the lane. This would create a sufficiently wide and secure escape belt for the arrival of intervention vehicles. Firefighters, paramedics, and police officers have been alerting them for years to face emergency driving problems. There are increasing numbers of vehicles on Slovenian roads, especially during the tourist season, which has further increased the problem as traffic density is then greatly increased. The problem of the current law is that it does not allow drivers to use the buffer belt in the event of a traffic jam and the establishment of an emergency escape belt and to make it a wider space for the safe and faster passage of these vehicles. The basic proposal for a novelty was flawed at the point of allowing for withdrawal only in the event of accidents, but not in the event of a halt in traffic. The fact is that when sirens and rescuers are heard, it is too late for vehicles to withdraw to the extreme edge, so it often happened that the aid came late or even too late for the participants in the accident. Thus, a rare situation occurred on the working body, when all those present with common powers sought a more appropriate formulation of the proposed provision. The coalition, the opposition, the novelists, the ministry, the representatives of the interested and professional public have recast the original proposal by allowing the withdrawal to the buffer zone when stopping traffic and thus forming a sufficiently wide lifeline. Members and Members of the Desus Group are pleased that the coalition and the opposition have managed to find a common language and have drafted such a bill that will contribute to the easier and more efficient work of people who save and protect our lives and property. Of course, we will unanimously support the proposal for a new Law on Road Traffic Rules in Desus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the vote; half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AN ACT OF ACTS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u178	Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce to you a proposal for a law on taxes on motor vehicles which does not deviate significantly from the existing and existing solutions to the existing arrangements for payment of this annual duty. The system of determining the annual amount of the duty remains unchanged and the amendment complements the law in those parts where different interpretations of the text could have occurred in practice. It shall be supplemented by an area specifying which vehicles are not subject to an annual duty, for diplomatic vehicles and for consular missions. Forgiveness will now also be granted to old-fashioned vehicles with the status of national wealth. However, for vehicles with the status of old-time vehicles, payment of an annual duty of 20% shall be maintained, as so far as is necessary. Vehicles that have not already been paid an annual service duty, such as vehicles of intervention services, defence, civil protection, firefighting, mountain rescue services, now include vehicles that have only an electric motor installed, which has been in force until now, but are now explicitly mentioned. As part of the exemption from the annual levy on the use of roads for large families, it is now proposed to include foster families. For exemptions in the case of disabled persons, a uniform limitation of the passenger vehicle to the power of the engine shall be proposed, including 150 kW. In addition, personal vehicles designed to transport disabled persons on a wheelchair will continue to be released irrespective of engine power. In order to promote the use of organised transport of persons with disabilities and to increase the sharing of vehicles, such arrangements are also proposed for the exemption of the annual fee for disabled organisations. The bill proposes an important change for citizens by calculating and returning the annual levy paid from the annual twelve to the daily amounts. Thus, the solution remains to be paid in one amount, and then, according to the number of days left, the payment is returned to the payer, so that no one is deprived. However, the annual duty is still payable in one single amount. It is essential in the bill that the law also introduces a new duty on a registered vehicle, thereby preventing any abuse of a vehicle when it logs out and thus achieving its objectives in the end-of-life vehicle management system. However, this is governed by a government regulation on end-of-life vehicles. One of the conditions for such a solution was also referred to the Court of Auditors, which carried out an efficiency review to achieve the objectives of the end-of-life vehicle management system. In its audit, the Court of Auditors assessed that the system of handling used vehicles was not effective. We are therefore proposing a new duty, an appropriate financial instrument, which will ensure more effective engagement of used vehicles in decommissioning. However, it should be pointed out that the payment of the obligation will not occur if the driver of the checked-out vehicle is acting in accordance with the law currently in force and will be put into decommissioning or re-registered; the time for this is 1 year after the check-out. The main purpose of the new duty is therefore to prevent any abuse when a vehicle is cancelled from transport and thus to achieve the objectives of the end-of-life management system and to contribute to the protection of the environment. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I also propose that the third hearing be held at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u179	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u180	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government and Members and Members of Parliament! Following further explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, continued to say that the main reasons for the submission of the proposal for a law on road traffic rules and the introduction of a new duty on decommissioned vehicles to encourage the owners of used vehicles to ensure that these vehicles are properly decommissioned. And the rest of the news is as follows. The law sets out more clearly what evidence is there for a reduction in the payment of the annual road traffic duty shown by a family with four or more children. It also provides that reductions in the payment of the annual levy will be granted to foster families. With regard to exemptions for annual duty, the proposal for a law is in line with the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which sets out categories of disabled persons who are exempt from the duty on newly acquired vehicles. On the basis of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the proposal introduces an important new levy on a registered motor vehicle, in order to achieve the highest efficiency and objectives in the system of handling used vehicles. This duty shall be imposed only on: vehicles for the carriage of passengers with a maximum of eight seats next to the driver's seat, vehicles for the carriage of goods with a maximum mass not exceeding 3,5 tonnes and for tricycle vehicles. He added that no new charges would have to be paid for the cancelled vehicle if the owner of the decommissioned vehicle took care of the appropriate decommissioning within one year. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had given a written opinion to it. She pointed out that the written opinion had mainly drawn attention to the fact that all the proposals were not properly explained, drew attention to the ambiguity of some of the solutions proposed and to the lack of uniformity of expression. It further stated that most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups. The representative of the State Council, Jernej Verbič, explained that the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the Bill did not support it. The representative of the Automotive Association of Slovenia, France Kmetič, said that they opposed the introduction of a new duty on a registered vehicle, since it was only for them to introduce a new tax on unregistered vehicles. Robert Repič of Busi d.o.o. supported the introduction of a new duty on the registered motor vehicle. He noted that it was a transfer of established practice from most European countries and expressed fear that the proposed amount of duty was too low and that it would not prevent the continuation of the construction of the used vehicles system in Slovenia. Igor Pipan, of the Autoservisers' Section at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that the bill was acceptable and meaningful for them. Among other things, the debate noted that the problem was the bill's proposal, that it should be tackled in a gossipy and improper manner and that the legal solutions in practice would not work. Nor is it because it represents property for citizens and citizens, in this case a car, as something absolute. Serious environmental and transport policies should be aligned with de-automobilisation and sustainable mobility. In this case, there would also be a smaller social aspect to the problem of the handling of used vehicles. However, much of the debate revolved around the proposal by the SDS Group on the amendment of the Committee to Article 8 of the bill. The amendment provided for the right to a lower annual duty of 50 % of the annual passenger car duty for one additional vehicle for families with 3 children or more; and not 4 or more, as provided for in Article 8 of the bill. The long, lively and part-controversial debate, which gradually moved to the area of social policy, did not end up bringing the views of the members and members of the Committee closer together on the criteria for the exercise of this right. A short discussion has developed around the provisions of Article 14 of the draft law that no duty is paid for vehicles with the status of an old-fashioned vehicle and an understanding of the tummine of an old-fashioned vehicle, which is a national wealth. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In view of the adoption of the amendment and pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law incorporating the amendments adopted is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Chairman. Say hello again! At the end of last year, 57,000 passenger vehicles were registered in Slovenia. In 2016, Slovenians bought or registered for the first time 65 thousand new cars. According to the Statistical Office, every nine registered passenger car in Slovenia is less than 3 years old at the end of 2016 and every third passenger car counts 12 years and more. Now, in Slovenia, there are significantly fewer passenger vehicles, only 6-7 thousand of the estimated 30 000, as planned since the establishment of the vehicle decommissioning system in 2005. The main objective of the law is the introduction of a new vehicle duty, which has been declared in accordance with the law governing motor vehicles. This duty is intended to prevent any misuse of the vehicle when it is cancelled and to ensure that used vehicles are more subject to decommissioning. The new duty on the registered vehicle shall be paid for 10 years, 25 % of the annual duty or at least EUR 25. This provision is intended to prevent the decommissioning of used vehicles into nature and to prevent the grey economy from falling into spare parts. The obligation to pay the duty on the decommissioning vehicle will cease: when the vehicle is put into decommissioning, the vehicle will be re-registered, the owner will submit a police record showing that the vehicle has been stolen, or if the owner submits proof of registration of the vehicle in another country, or if he submits the export customs documentation. In addition to the additional duty, the law imposes an even lower duty of 20 % of the annual duty on individual categories or subcategories of motor vehicles with the status of an old vehicle. The proposed law also provides for the exemption of an annual benefit to disabled persons and to disabled organisations, or the law, to define slightly more precisely who the beneficiaries are. A lower annual duty of 50 % of the annual passenger car duty shall be paid for a maximum of one vehicle owned or used by one of the members of the family who has four or more children who are under 18 years of age registered on the date of application for the reduction of the annual duty. The reduction shall be effected on the basis of evidence of a common permanent residence of at least one of the parents and children. The same is true of a foster family. In New Slovenia, we advocate a transparent and responsible approach to nature, so we call on all citizens to think that we have one nature to protect. Decommissioning of used vehicles is not suitable for lawns, forests, abandoned farms and the like; used vehicles are decommissioned, as we must leave the clean environment to our craftsmen. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u184	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The law under consideration is more than a technical improvement to the existing law. The only novelty to be introduced is the so-called decommissioned vehicle duty. According to the Government, the introduction of the levy is supposed to be a reason to take care of the clean environment. We have 17 decommissioning facilities with environmental permits, in which about 6 000 500 used vehicles are decommissioned annually. On the other hand, the data show that there are between 30,000 and 40,000 newly formed used vehicles each year. You can calculate the difference, and it's clear that most of these vehicles will magically disappear somewhere. In most cases they are grey processors who use them to acquire used spare parts and, of course, do not meet the prescribed environmental standards. Otherwise, they end up being abandoned ordinary waste in various public parking lots, forests, streams and so on. As a result, we have a serious ecological problem, which the government is dealing with by hitting the pockets in every likelihood those who cannot afford it, those who are the poorest in this society. In Levi, the introduction of a duty that would prevent abuse and protect the environment would not be opposed if we had a properly regulated system of decommissioning of used vehicles and would be confident that the objectives set would actually be achieved. Neither does the Government, which prescribes this duty from German law and practice, really believe that. When considering the law on the Commission of the State Council, the representatives of the Government said, I quote, “there is also a possible higher duty on a registered vehicle probably for some of the owners of checked-out vehicles for financial reasons not to deter abuse.” The Government therefore deliberately introduces a measure that does not solve the problem concerned and is, above all, still socially unjust. We propose in Levica that the imposition of this contested duty be simply deleted from the law. The Ministry of Resort should once again consider the other possibilities of preventing these abuses and strengthen the environmental and spatial inspection that is also responsible for the control of authorised vehicles. In particular, it should regulate the decommissioning system, which is the obligation of car manufacturers; also with the appropriate tax policy, where some delays in the purchase of a car will take place in some kind of decommissioned vehicle decommissioning fund. These are measures that would be significantly better. On the other hand, the development of a public passenger transport network, including a well-thought-out so-called split modal, would also reduce the purchase of passenger cars and consequently the volume of newly arrived used vehicles. And this must be the heart of future mobility and transport policies, regardless of the composition of the executive or legislative branches of government in Slovenia. In Levica, when the law is being amended, we also come from the state of poverty in our country. We have tabled an amendment extending the possibility of a 50% reduction in the payment of an annual levy on the use of motor vehicles for all families with at least three minors who are regularly trained; or children who are regularly trained up to 26 years of age. If we are obliged to survive, it is right that we also have the opportunity to make it easier for us to do so. In the event that our amendments are adopted, we will also support the Proposal for a Tax Law on Motor Vehicles in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a law on taxes for motor vehicles largely replaces the applicable Law on annual road transport charges, and does not significantly derogate from the applicable regulation. However, it introduces some additions and innovations, with the most important complement being the elimination of some uncertainties regarding the payment of the annual road traffic duty. In our view, there are four main solutions to the law. Firstly, the revenues from the annual vehicle use levy are earmarked for the implementation of investments and the maintenance of public transport infrastructure, which is very important. We often hear in this national assembly, especially in the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, how our roads are in poor shape and what should be built. Secondly, a lower annual duty of 50 % of the other annual duty payable for a maximum of one vehicle owned or used by one of the family members who has four or more children under the age of 18 registered at the same address on the day of the application. This article is also the subject of an amendment, which will be discussed more later. Thirdly, the exemption from the annual benefit for a number of different categories of persons with disabilities, depending on the type of disability and also the rate. The exemption shall apply to themselves, their parents or one of them, the spouse, the extramarital partner, the legal representative or the disability organisation. And last time, for the fourth time, and not least importantly, the obligation to pay a new duty on checked-out vehicles applicable to vehicles carrying passengers with a maximum of eight seats next to the driver's seat, for vehicles carrying goods with a maximum mass not exceeding 3,5 tonnes and for tricycle vehicles. Why? A key problem in Slovenia is that vehicles will disappear before they become used vehicles, as an instrument of de-registration of the vehicle is being misused by the Motor Vehicle Act. These problems were also identified by the Court of Auditors, which imposed corrective measures and recommendations on the design of the temporary decommissioning instrument for vehicles from transport to the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Infrastructure. However, the obligation to pay the duty on the cancelled vehicle shall not apply if the driver by means of a certificate proves that the vehicle has been destroyed in accordance with the environmental rules, if stolen, which is normally a police record, if it has been re-registered, in another Member State of the European Union, whether it has been exported from the European Union on the basis of a customs declaration. Therefore, it is envisaged that all of the owners of the registered vehicles will become liable after 1 April 2018 to pay the decommissioned vehicle duty after the expiry of one year, i.e. after 1 April 2019. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on taxes on motor vehicles, which is intended at least to ease the problem of checked-out vehicles, which many owners today often put in nature, leave them in parking lots and other public areas or even lay them around their houses. In Slovenia, about 55 to 60 000 vehicles are bought annually and only about 6 000 are put into decommissioning. So 90% of vehicles that could come into decommissioning remain somewhere and present potential environmental pollution due to the possible spillage of oil, fuel and so on. The environmental inspectors, who are supposed to monitor the disposal of out-of-work cars, are too few, which means that they are in no way able to exercise quality control. In our country there are officially registered about 20 decommissioning plants; in black this activity deals with more than 200 plants. They sell used parts, which are often questionable qualities. And at this very point in the Desus Group, we have some concerns that we have brought to the attention of the Minister at the time of the first presentation of the law. We fear that this means that car owners will no longer be able to get to the cheap parts but will be sentenced to buying expensive and often overrated new parts. Perhaps the ministry should consider how to encourage decommissioning facilities to give the owners of registered cars a financial compensation in order to pay more to put the car in decommissioning than to sell it for parts. We are so afraid that the duty will not produce good results despite the good intentions of the ministry. The law provides that if the owner of the decommissioned vehicle takes care of its decommissioning, no duty will have to be paid. The bill also provides a number of good solutions, such as reducing annual benefits for foster families. It is more clearly defined which are the evidence to reduce the payment of the annual levy shown by a family of four or more children. The categories of persons with disabilities are also coordinated in children with physical and mental disorders. As we believe that the proposal brings more good provisions than bad in the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u190	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues and all those who accompany this meeting! The proposal for a tax law for motor vehicles replaces the law in force. As an essential novelty, on the basis of foreign experience and recommendations from the Court of Auditors, a new duty is introduced for out-of-office vehicles to encourage the owners of checked-out and used vehicles to ensure that these vehicles are properly decommissioned in authorised establishments that display these vehicles. The proposed measure introducing the duty on decommissioned vehicles is due to the fact that in Slovenia there are significantly fewer used vehicles estimated to be around 100,000. The bill does not address the existing problem of environmental pollution and vehicle use, while municipalities, despite inspection services, do not have a mechanism to enable them to effectively remove abandoned vehicles. Since the proposed exemption duty places the socially disadvantaged owners of vehicles in an even more difficult position, while at the same time there is a higher anti-abuse duty on vehicle registration, we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The law that is ahead of us in its essential part updates and more precisely sets out the system of levies for motor vehicles or for the use of motor vehicles and attempts to put within this framework a more fair system of application of incentives and also exemption of payments for the most vulnerable groups. As already mentioned, we are talking about the extension to foster families and additional exemptions in categories of disabled persons and persons with special needs. However, what is crucial and which has also been the subject of further debate and concerns within the opinions, the imposition of a new levy on used vehicles or vehicles which have been cancelled from transport is not either re-registered and put back on the market within one year; or broken down, as required by law. The fact is that environmental standards have not only been experienced in Europe, but also elsewhere, for a reason in recent years, a significant rise in the thresholds of complexity. This law is one of those where it wants to ensure that the environment is not only taken care of at the declaration level, but that it will also be the actual obligation of all citizens and citizens. If you want, I'll say otherwise. It is not logical to dump the car after use in the forest; it is not logical that spare parts are processed in illegal processing plants, through all relevant environmental standards. And no, it is not fair that there is a black market for spare parts of used cars that run through all those who want to work honestly, paying taxes and who provide for their vehicles adequately beyond their lifetime. And while there is an additional burden on people, it should be stressed below that there is a potential additional burden, that is, only if someone fails to take account and does not take advantage of the other options available to him. This is that the vehicle is still in use or that the vehicle should be properly and appropriately decommissioned. And if I can afford some populism at the end. We are all monitoring what is happening due to global warming, and we are all monitoring movements that want to keep this planet as it is, or at least as it should be. However, when small steps are taken that are not important for macronucleus at first, they are still very influential and often fall at the points of cheap populism. It will not make a significant contribution to making this planet a better place; however, every step more to preserving nature and protecting the environment is better than overlooking the fact that we have done too little. The Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 September. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u194	Thank you, Vice President. Since I suspect that there will be no over-controversy under these amendments, I will explain both together. This amendment to Article 8 speaks of what I have also highlighted in my position in order to increase the possibility of applying a lower annual levy of 50% for personal vehicles for families with three or more children. And also for those who have three or more children, up to the age of 26, but are still in school. So in a way, let's equalize what parent and family obligations are, with what they are, on the other hand, benefits. We believe that a family with three or more such children is, as a result, entitled to a benefit from the annual allowance on passenger cars, this is particularly important because in practice there can be situations where one child is 18 years old or older in a family with three or more children and the rest are still minors. In such a case, such a family would, of course, lose the right to a reduced annual benefit, and with the adoption of an amendment, these families would still be entitled to this reduction, even if a full-year child is still in school. I think it's a minimum to ensure equality. We also know that, even in the case of schooling children, family expenses are relatively high. I think that such a measure, which could allow these families to at least slightly reduce this cost, i.e. this annual passenger car duty, was a welcome one. The second amendment to Article 14, which is related to Article 16, is that which I have already mentioned in the position, namely to delete the introduction of this new duty on checked-out vehicles, although colleague Škoberne says that we must not fall into some kind of populism that we must take every small step. But once again, it is a measure that the government has already said in the beginning that it will not have any real impact. That practically under the pretext of environmental protection we introduce a new levy that will primarily affect the socially weaker inhabitants; for an effect that will not. As I said before, I think it would be more reasonable for the government to deal with those measures that would actually lead to, say, 20,000 vehicles or even more different imports that land on the grey market every year in motor vehicles or in nature, which is probably even more worrisome; and would resolve in some other way, by paying for car manufacturers to carry the burden of decommissioning of these vehicles, which would be fair and even in line with all the other sellers. When you change the refrigerator, you can give it to the seller free of charge and he has to take care of the decomposition. Why wouldn't it be the same for cars that are even bigger than a simple refrigerator? And then with all the other appropriate measures; in the end, it is likely that it will finally start to work a little bit more on mobility, on public passenger transport and similar forms, similar measures that significantly protect the environment, and, in the first place, on some of the benefits that I stress are mainly socially weak and do not achieve what would be the purpose of such a duty. We therefore propose that this amendment delete this article, including this measure, and ask or call on the Government to find appropriate solutions that will actually preserve the environment and, on the other hand, the social status of the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u196	Thank you again, Mr Vice President, for the floor. If I go in line, from Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. In this regard, we had a lively debate on the committee, and I myself advocated the view that it would be worth considering how to talk to families with three or more children in this part. I must say that, at that time, the arguments presented by Minister Gasperšič concerning the fact that, for the first time, we cannot use this law as social remedies. We have heard several times today from our colleague Vatovec that the most will hit the pocket of social weakness, which, of course, is not true. For these purposes, solutions should be adopted or proposed in the field of social protection legislation or in the area of family benefits. However, I did not support another supplement on the committee, which Levica is now introducing here; and this is an increase in the age for children to 26 years. When we put all this together, the pressure on the purpose of these funds, which I have already stated in my position, is simply too high for investments and the integration of public transport infrastructure. Again, I reiterate that it is worth considering under another legislation and on another committee. As far as it's concerned, they're going to be the most affected socialally weak. That's not true for a number of reasons. We have already heard on the committee that decommissioning will be free of charge in accordance with the rules for the last holder. That's the first one. Secondly, there is now a debate on whether some of these registered processors offer something to those who bring the vehicle. The second reason, however, is what Skoberne’s colleague has already mentioned in his position that almost everyone is likely to meet one of the six conditions laid down in the law, i.e. two of the sixth paragraph of Article 16. The first is that the vehicle was transferred to decommissioning in accordance with environmental protection regulations and the second is that the vehicle was re-registered, i.e. registered in the Republic of Slovenia. These are the two in paragraph 6. If they fail to comply with these two, but one of the four in the following paragraph will be possible: a certificate of destruction of the vehicle in accordance with the regulations governing environmental protection; a police record showing that the vehicle was stolen; evidence that the vehicle was registered in another country, i.e. another Member State of the European Union; and an export declaration confirming the exit of the vehicle from the customs territory of the Union. I almost do not believe that anyone who thinks well and works well for the environment would not meet any of the six conditions set out in Article 16, paragraphs 6 and 7, so we will not support any amendment of the Left in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u198	Thank you, Chairman. Let us also define ourselves from the proposaler's point of view to these amendments. As Member Krajnc has already said, we must not confuse what is the basic purpose of this consideration with regard to large families, as this is not a social correction. For this reason, we also believe that this amendment is not acceptable because the existing solution foresees helping families with multiple children because they need to buy a bigger car if it is a van or a one-bedroom vehicle, which is therefore more expensive; it is not meant to improve the social status of the family. Also with regard to the current system of reduction in payments in large families, which is supplemented, it is complemented only by a more clear and comprehensible description of what is the larger number of family members. And it is clearly defined that we are talking about a family that lives at the same address, because in this case we can also expect a different vehicle to be needed. This is only more precisely defined, but it also wants to ensure that the family has greater mobility with one vehicle, which is also more ecological in this direction; and we also promote a more eco-friendly approach for passenger vehicles. However, this amendment is also unacceptable from the point of view of the State because these exemptions can significantly increase the range of beneficiaries, including the inflow of earmarked resources that we all use to maintain road infrastructure. However, it is necessary to know that we currently have about 5,000 families with four or more children, about half of whom actually apply this relief. However, if we look at more than 22,000 families receiving a large family allowance, and this one is awarded only on the basis of censorship, then we can expect that the circle of beneficiaries would increase significantly, and thus also the inflow of funds intended for the maintenance of road infrastructure. The Ministry's gross estimate is that this inflow can be reduced by around €1.7 million. So this is not a solution that would be a social adjustment, but provides assistance in mobility. With regard to the second correction concerning the Court of Auditors’ request for the introduction of an additional fee, let me stress only once again if, in the event of the decommissioning of the vehicle and its appropriate decommissioning, the current legislation does not give rise to this fee. Several times today, however, it has been said that this only contributes to the circular economy or to the proper decommissioning of off-duty vehicles if they are not re-registered. We also do not support these two amendments of the Left from the proposal's point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u200	Your Honor, Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! I can't agree with you, and I can't agree with my colleague Krajnec because he's no longer in the Chamber. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly support this amendment, which relates to Article 8; because we have already proposed the same or almost the same on the committee, unfortunately it has been rejected by the coalition. We even fixed it from 4 to 3, and even then there was no listening. Dear Minister, when you say this is not acceptable for the country. Do you know who the country is?Oh, my God! The country is all of us. Those who have pockets full, including those who have large families and count the euro each month, if they come down to the end. I don't think it's right for us to act like this. Nothing's gonna happen Tuesday when you press the keys to get this law passed. As a result, after a while, let's put a burden on those, so that I don't express myself so poorly, but on those who deserve the least and have children. I don't think it's right, I repeat, it's not on the side of the coalition; it's not right of you to say that this is not acceptable for a country. This amendment refers to those who earn at least in the Republic of Slovenia and have three or more children. I think we must have respect for these families if we want our future to be Slovenian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u202	Thank you. I'm not going to answer to my colleague Krajnc. Minister, you have a similar attitude. I think you're just making fun of citizens and citizens. The current law, as proposed, states the third paragraph of Article 8: “A lower annual levy of 50 % of the annual passenger car duty referred to in Article 7 of this Act shall be paid for a maximum of one vehicle owned or used by one of the family members who has four or more children under 18 years of age registered on the date of application for a reduction of the annual duty. The reduction shall be implemented...« Our amendment proposes that, in the same paragraph, we change only the part on the number of children in the same article; this is “at the same address of the permanent residence of three or more children,” and not four or more children “up to 18 years of age or regular schooling children up to 26 years of age”. I don't know where this conspiracy is coming from to use this law to introduce some social adjustments. It's a question of justice. And here I agree, we cannot talk about the fact that the country cannot afford such a thing. It is not beyond the scope of this law, because we have amended an article that already exists; an article that is, in your opinion, already a social correction in this law; and we have only made it more lifelike. Because families with three children may find it difficult to spend a month. Most, believe me, are those who can't afford to pay this annual fee. And the fact that you are now saying that only those who have four or more children are entitled to this is the anti-social policy of this government. Just that we're simply going to slice where we can slice; that you're going to cut where it's easy to cut yes and where there's not going to be any major resistance. It's not a social correction, it's some kind of basic justice. And it's this supplement that we're adding – for children up to the age of 26. If a family has three children, one of whom is 21 years old and still in school and practically maintains it; and maybe they manage a trip for a month, they must go along with the same car. And I see no reason why this family should be treated differently than those who have three children by the age of 18. If he keeps it. I think it's a complete delusion on your part and on the part of my colleague Krajnc. It is not about any use of this law for any other purpose, but we are trying to correct, of course, with some sense of social sense and equality for everyone in this country. We know the social situation, we know the picture of poverty in our country. And we need to find a mechanism everywhere. It's not about any abuse, it's about something that's the duty of this country, not some other instance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you are, Minister Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u204	Thank you, Chairman. After all, you all know this isn't my area. My colleague's infrastructure minister asked me to cover this subject today. Just one simple response. If a family has up to three children, they can travel together with a passenger car; if a family has four children, 6 people must have a bigger car, so this correction is also introduced into the marriage. This is the logic of this correction, and that's all I wanted to explain, because a family with three children can drive with one car. Believe me, from personal experience, I know what it's like to transport a large family.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u206	Once again, thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, I once again call on you, on this side, by the Slovenian Democratic Party, to reconsider this proposal. I repeat this country. This country is all of them. Those who pay 20,000 euros and those who have 500 or 600. They all co-create this country. It is not right when we adopt laws, perhaps this law, that they go through all or most of them. Those who may be accompanying this meeting today also feel that nothing will happen. But over time, in this National Assembly and this mandate, we impose laws and burden those who deserve the least. All respect for them who have children. This is our future. We do not always agree with the United Left, but here we absolutely support them because they have almost a similar amendment as you have rejected it on the Committee. I think it's right for me to think. That in every field and in every law we burden those who earn at least in the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, they are our citizens, and they are also concerned, taking care of our past, as well as the future. I think that's because they have kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u207	Thank you very much. There's no desire to discuss it anymore. I'm closing the debate. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 14 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer in Article 16, we will discuss amendments to these articles together. I am putting in the debate Articles 14 and 16 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to these two articles. Anybody want to talk? No; thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I interrupt the 17th item of the agenda and also the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u208	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 7, 17 and 31 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Business Register of Slovenia; following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Registry; following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour and one against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act; under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2017. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In view of all the opinions expressed in this National Assembly regarding this Act, from filing to hearing on the working body, to the amendments tabled and to today's communication or statements made by the State Minister of the Interior, Györkös Žnidar, in which she has expressed serious suspicion that it is a violation of the rule of law, that standards of protection of human rights should be reduced: the fairness of the procedure, equality of arms and the right to defence; and that a key problem is the new restriction of access to judicial investigation and the concentration of proceedings in police hands and so on. I propose that before deciding on the amendments, an opinion be obtained from the Legal and Legislative Service. This is in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. In view of all the warnings given by the section to this Act, in view of all the warnings made by Members, in particular the opposition Members, in view of the position taken by the Minister of the Interior towards this Act, I propose and I think this is a reasonable proposal, a reasonable proposal that the National Assembly decide that before continuing its consideration of this Act, before the vote on the amendments, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on amendments, the content of the law or on compliance with the legislation in that country. I suggest you put such a proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u210	In accordance with paragraph 4 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I must put such a proposal to the vote. I am voting on the decision to obtain the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on amendments before deciding on the amendments. Explanation of voice; procedural? There is no debate in procedural matters; I have put this matter to the vote; there is nothing else I can do. There's no explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u211	On behalf of the Group of Members [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u212	There's no break, there's no explanation, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u213	Procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u214	It's been procedural for a day. I'm doing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u215	Okay, we'll do it next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u216	We must first vote on this, unfortunately, it is no different. We're voting. I'm breaking up. There is no break in the procedure, there is nothing and there is a need for a procedural vote. I can't do anything else. [[advertising from the hall]] It's not! I'm sorry. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 36. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the procedural proposal is not adopted and we begin by voting on the amendments. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u217	Thank you very much again. Since the government coalition or the majority of government coalitions are afraid of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service as the devil of the Cross, because obviously there is something about the ministers' warnings coming to the National Assembly, we have them on the table, we can share them with you; and since there are many concerns about the solutions in this Criminal Procedure Act, I propose that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, we put the vote on amendments to one of the following meetings. At this time you will be able to obtain an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. We will be able to make another public presentation of opinions on the solutions of the law if you want to, so that we can regulate the law on criminal proceedings in the manner you are decent; and not as the minister has imagined, which has no credibility, as far as talking about constitutionality, compliance, legality and so on. But in this case, I trust the Minister of the Interior much more because he doesn't have one. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] History, no history, no laws violations, and so on. In the case of this opinion or this opinion, which is publicly transmitted, I think it is right to take time to reflect on and verify the Minister's claims and the solutions proposed by the Minister in his law, which is being attacked by the Legislative and Legal Service, and matters are not being remedied. And many concerns of the legal profession are expressed. In short, let's take some time, make, if you want, a marriage just like it's supposed to be a good marriage. It makes no sense, however, to insist that the National Assembly, especially the coalition, is forced into some unreasonable decision that may be subject to further procedures and also to constitutional judgements. It doesn't make any sense doing that. I suggest you be reasonable and just make a decision that can be good for everyone. At this point in time, with these solutions and the fact that you do not even want an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has the sole task of finding compliance with the constitutional arrangements in this country, I think this is the minimum standard that the National Assembly must afford. Mr President, I propose that you also put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u218	Yes, I have to put it to a vote because it's of that nature. I shall put to the vote the following decision: In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, the decision on this item shall be postponed to one of the following meetings. In this case, it is possible to present the views of the groups of Members and the Government in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask whether anyone would like to put forward a position to this decision. On behalf of the Left Group, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u219	Thank you very much, President. I have proposed a similar initiative, as proposed by my colleague Tanka before, in the first procedural procedure, in the course of the debate on this law. We have been dealing with this law for about 3 months and for 3 months we have been arguing in some way that certain provisions in this law are controversial. It is perhaps a handful of these provisions, but they are so serious that things have become critical. The fact that the minister in this government today made a statement, which in some ways sums up what we have been stressing all along in Levica, is worrying. On the one hand, the Slovenian Democratic Party has announced that it will support our amendments; on the other hand, lawyers from the European Law Faculty have said that they agree with our amendments, now the Minister of the Interior. So I can say that, in this mandate, our opponents are, in many cases, attached to the Leviathans today. If this is not a sign that something is wrong with this marriage, it can only be a sign that something is wrong with us; but I think it holds that first. For this reason, I agree, and in Levi, we will support the postponement of this point and that we will decide on this law when we gain an opinion from the Legal and Legal Service and give careful thought to whether we are really prepared to amend the Criminal Procedure Act in such a way as to reduce, on the one hand, the rights of those who are the poorest in our society and, on the other hand, to improve efficiency, practically in the predictive process, to conclude cases by means of so-called inquisitorial means, by blackmailing confessions before the trial itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u220	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak will present his position to this Decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u221	For starters, the decision on the table will be supported. As for the rest of you, dear colleagues, I asked you this morning who supports this law. And we have come to some conclusion that no one supports him; except for the coalition. Now that Minister Klemenčič is still Interior Minister in the morning, he spoke about how the police support the law. [[…]] Look what the minister says. At least read what he says. The Minister of the Interior says so; that the Criminal Procedure Act is designed to ensure procedurally and that no one who is innocent is convicted. In her opinion, the amendment of this law is aimed at reducing the rights of people in criminal proceedings and at lowering the standard of protection of human rights based on some apparent greater efficiency that will not actually be; that is what the interior minister says. This was published today at 3: 09 p.m. Next; the less fair process, equality of arms and the right to defence, has warned and, most worryingly, has pointed out that, especially at the expense of the socially weaker people – I am knocking on the conscience of the Social Democrats – who will not have money for lawyers. And so on. The interior minister goes on to say that it is a political and professional conflict that has never happened before, that this conflict between politics and expertise is as obvious as it is today. Ladies and gentlemen, before that, I used that ugly expression that I put in the foreword that disturbed Mr Horvath, and now I will not use it. Ladies Members, I implore you, respect the Constitution. Not only the Constitution, respect your own self. You have to respect your own self. No one can force you into something that appears to be wrong. We all see that something is clearly wrong. We all see that the minister has brought you to the barn. You're having a traffic accident in the pronunciations; and this serious traffic accident. For God's sake, now you're gonna be sitting in a burning car waiting for you to burn. Get rid of this. In short, we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u222	On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Dr Bojan Dobovšek will present his position to this Decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u223	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have already warned on the working bodies – the profession has expressed its opinion against, the contractors have opposed, our legislative service has highlighted that this is an inappropriate law and that it is not suitable for consideration, as I have suggested on the committee. Nothing was respected and a few steps back was taken to harmonize with all who contributed in any way to the birth of this law. Of course, it is said that they had an opportunity; but nothing was taken into account. The law, as proposed, is inoperable. What's the biggest flaw? That we don't want to go to the state of law. The Antipot Law State is a police state. It's interesting that the police won't accept this marriage. So, whether we want to go back to those years ago, most of the changes came into law because they told us we had a police state; and now we're going back. The inquisitor procedure that is introduced by this is bad for people, and we will come back to having an ordinary man on one side; on the other hand, one who can abuse all institutions. We're trying to stop this. In front of us is a typical form of state-capture legislative takeover. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the proposal to at least get a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service and to think carefully about the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u224	On behalf of the Government, the decision will now be presented by the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u225	Thank you very much for the government. I hope I'm still Minister of Justice because I have a part of Jo's government? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u226	I told you before.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u227	Good. For a little while. I'll start here where Dr. Dobovšek ended. It is not true that nothing was respected, Dr Dobovsk was also not on one of the committees where this was discussed. He was not present at the public presentation, he was not included in the debate today; on the contrary, the number of amendments shows what we have explained today in great detail that we have largely taken into account the opinions of the professions and the Legal and Legislative Services. I regret this too, I truly regret, Bojan, because we have known for a long time that someone who is supposed to be an expert in this area has not made any amendments or proposals in another direction. Next thing, I will not repeat what we have spent hours of debate today, where we have argued, reading the minutes, saying that it simply does not hold that no one supports this law. I read to you directly from a letter from the Ombudsman, who welcomes the solutions in this law. As regards the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Legislative and Legal Service has given its opinion and is evident from the magnetograms and from their opinion that there are very few such large laws in this National Assembly, which would have so few comments on the final product. I do not agree with this law to reduce the human rights of suspects in criminal proceedings, namely those who are the most vulnerable group. I have told you many times, but you do not have to believe me; and I know that some do not, but this also comes from opinions of some other part of the legal profession. We have a law that actually stems from another period, which is actually based on an inquisition standard, which today does not actually offer the poor and those without a lawyer any rights in the forecasting process; nor should the police have to record or record their interview. That's what we're putting in now. People need a lawyer today, but they can't afford one. With the new rules, we are giving significantly greater transparency to the forecasting process. On behalf of the Government or at least nine tenths of it, I call on the National Assembly to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u228	I also ask the motioner if he wants to take advantage of the last five minutes he has. Now I don't know if the presentation is up here or not. You can do it in the front if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be out of here 'cause it looks better. First, I would like to reiterate what the Minister of Justice is doing. What he had to do with the Members, where someone was, what someone said, what he proposed or did not propose. We are an independent branch of power, doing what we do. And I think that all these warnings that we have, which we also get from the outside, are either professions, or politics, or civil society, whoever we are, we need to listen to. And I don't think we've done anything but listen to these warnings when we adopt this law at all stages of the procedure. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as regards the first examination of the law, still stands. And from here on out, we have no other opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service in order to change anything relevant in relation to what they have pointed out. We have no other opinion. The proposal to get that opinion was rejected. To us, to you and to the National Assembly, which adopts the law, that would be of great help. The minister will never say when there is a problem that the government has caused the problem, but the National Assembly has accepted the problem. They all make excuses to the National Assembly. And if, despite the warnings we receive from outside, we are still willing to adopt a law that is supposedly seriously flawed, then something is also wrong with the National Assembly. The warnings we received from the ministers are published at the STA, everyone can read them, are relevant warnings. It is up to us and our legislative and legal service to check whether they hold these statements before final decision-making. Whether or not the amendments tabled at this hearing are remedial. And if we find that these things are not fully remedied, that there are still great dangers or conflicts with the constitutional protection of human rights and so on, we must decide what we will do – whether we will reject the law or do anything else. I think it is our duty and also our responsibility to use all the things that are available to us. And in the case of as severe animosities as they are in this law – said by the minister of the same government and did not say them for the first time, she did not say them for the first time – probably needs to be checked. The Minister is also a lawyer, and she has been a lawyer in the process so far, so she knows these matters in person. However, she is also a minister, covering an area that is burdened with excessive burdens by this law. And on the other hand, we have a group of people who will be subject to insinuation-based procedures, anonymities and so on and will be accompanied by, I don't know, 5, 7, 10 years; no one will know how and why. These matters need to be checked, balanced, given the opportunity for people to defend themselves in these procedures. We had some procedures that were carried out by mass violations of human rights or at least some of the provisions of the Constitution. They went through all stages — to judicial proceedings, to prisons, and then there was an annulment due to human rights violations in the process. As has been repealed by the Supreme Court, not only by the Constitution. And why not, I would say, normal Members accept these warnings and ask themselves, inform them, check them, and only after the conditions for continuation of the procedure have been given to decide on them. What's the problem? What's so urgent that you can't even check it out? Who's in such a hurry to get some clearance without checking them first? And those who are supposed to receive them are opposed to that and are alerting them to the problems that may happen. Now that they were probably good guards, it happened and it happened. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the proposal to postpone the consideration of the item and that we decide at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u230	Now, on the basis of the procedure laid down in Article 74, paragraph 1, in conjunction with Article 64, paragraph 10, everyone has taken advantage of the opportunity to present their position. I'm putting a decision to the vote. We're voting. What? I'm breaking up. There's no explanation for the voice, so I can't. [[…]] Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u231	I'm not proposing a vote. Before the vote, I request a 20-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u232	Since this is a procedural decision, I cannot allow it. This matter needs to be voted on now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u233	Then please explain your business to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u234	Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure states that no such explanation is possible in the case of procedural matters. Discontinuation of any consultation because it is not a matter of substantive decision-making, but a matter of procedural decision-making. [[…]] This is based on an explanation which has been adopted No break before the decision is taken. [[…]] On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the 6th Emergency Meeting, which was 20. 9. 2002 at 12 p.m., there is such an explanation; it follows that Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure is interpreted in such a way – there can be no interruption if there is no substantive decision. And in this case, it is a matter of procedural decision whether or not to postpone. I'm afraid I can't do that. Because you can't stop this thing, and I can always, uh, interrupt the session in 20 minutes. We'll pick it up at 5.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u235	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I shall put to the vote the following decision: In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 74, the decision on this item shall be postponed to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Since the majority of these national councils are not prepared to hear exactly any warnings or to obtain any additional opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on the compatibility of the law with the constitutional regime, I predict that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will obstruct the vote on this item of the agenda. What is happening with this law – the procedures you are leading, the violence against the legislative process and the inability to check anything – is beyond all limits. I do not think that since 2000, there has been such a composition of the National Assembly, which would have been so blindly followed by a government proposal, although one of the key ministers of this government, which is the Minister of the Interior, clearly points out the dangers posed by this law. In particular, in terms of reducing legal certainty, human rights violations in proceedings, unequal status or deterioration of the position of the party or person in criminal proceedings and so on. If you feel that none of these things need be checked or obtained opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service regarding compliance with the Constitution, with the regulation in relation to other laws, then something in this National Assembly is seriously wrong. I think there is no point in participating, despite all the warnings we have heard, in spite of the opinions of experts expressed also in the public presentation of opinions, as also stated in this National Assembly at the meeting of the Committee, in deciding on such matters as are so important for human rights and the legal security of those in criminal proceedings and their rights. The law before us is intended for political accounting with political opponents. The fundamental intention of this law is what the KPK did in some cases, a fundamental intention. There's nothing more fundamental to this marriage than this. And if you think that this is necessary regardless of what happens and where you are going to solve your political destiny by listening to the bedroom of our politicians, then we will not participate in this matter; so we predict obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u237	We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 3. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 113. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 113 will become irrelevant. Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u238	Thank you very much, President. I will explain only those amendments which are related to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has not changed throughout the legislative process. Article 3, we have proposed an amendment in which we delete the third paragraph. At the meeting of the committee, the proposal was modified by amendments to the coalition, mainly at the point required for the protection of legality. On the committee when this amendment was adopted or when the Legislative and Legal Service was defined to this amendment, the representative of the ZPS said that the proposed solution was, I quote, “disputed from the point of view of Article 127 of the Constitution, by which the Supreme Court is designated as the highest court in the country and is also solely responsible for deciding on exceptional remedies.” This is one of the four decisions of this Act, which is at least partially contrary to the Constitution. That is why we have proposed deleting this third paragraph, because I do not think that the protection of legality is something to play with. If we leave this jurisdiction only to the Constitutional Court, we know how long-term proceedings are and, in view of those who would use such a means, are very ineffective and inappropriate. That's why we're proposing this deletion. We will vote in favour of this amendment in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u239	We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 40 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 16. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 38, 39, 56 and 58. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments will become irrelevant. Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u240	Thanks again. We propose deleting Article 16. It's a limitation on access to the file. Here, too, I will rely only on what the Legislative and Legal Service has warned, inter alia, that the right of access to the file held by the defence counsel and also the accused throughout the criminal proceedings stems from the fundamental legal guarantees that the accused has in criminal proceedings; namely that he has the opportunity to prepare his defence and to defend himself or his counsel, as set out in Article 29 of the Constitution. At the same time, they warned that the defendant could not successfully perform the defence function if he was not allowed to be familiar with all the facts and evidence that the accused was charged with, or if it was only possible for him to do so at a later stage of the procedure. This Article provides that, on the basis of certain conditions, access to the file could be restricted and thus placed in a very uneven position of the prosecution and defence, as they could simply not look at all the materials collected in the forecasting procedure. In this way, what should be a fundamental balance is destroyed and in the detriment of those who might be weaker parties in this process, which is why we have proposed deleting this article, following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and also the warnings of a number of experts in this field. We will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u241	We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 14 votes in favour and 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of Article 16 of the Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 38 becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 38(2). This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 39(2). If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 39 under Article 2 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of Article 16 of the Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 39 becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 39(2). We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 40. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the 41st Article under number 1. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 42. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 42 will become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, it will become an amendment by the SDS Group to Article 41 under Article 2 irrelevant. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 41. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 41 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 6 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the Left Group to Article 41 under Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 42 under Article 2 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 42(2). We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 7 for them and 45 for them. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 43. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 44 and 46. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment will become irrelevant. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u242	Good evening, everyone! Today, when we vote with the United Left, according to the new Left, we are relatively coordinated; except for the amendments in these three articles. The amendments proposed by the three articles speak of preventing the use of the IMSI Catcher if I say very simply; personally, I and Nova Slovenija are not in favour of this. You know, criminals are always one step ahead of justice, and if you disable certain services with the right tools, then you can't expect the right results. As some of you have already warned today in the debate that Slovenian services have had a very long time of IMSI Catcher, but they cannot legally use it, so they use different circuits in terms of some anonymous applicants and similar stories. If it wasn't for an excessive measure that I don't know what I'd put on my head, I'd only give you two cases. Recently, I was in Estonia, where we were presented with a system that the Estonian government has, that practically every citizen knows exactly where it is located, on the phone. When an accident or fire occurs in an area, citizens receive a text message on their phone immediately, to withdraw from a particular region because it is dangerous due to floods, fires and the like. And this system works based on the phone, based on their signal, and where this case is located. If certain or even similar things can also be used in European countries, then I do not think that in the case of the IMSI Catcher it is an excessive use of such tools. That is why I am opposed to this amendment because I agree that it is for security reasons and for many other reasons that IMSI Catcher can legally be used.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u243	We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 46. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of Article 43 of the Left Group has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 44 and 46 have become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 50. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 7 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[And against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 52. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 3 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[And against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the Left Group to Article 16 has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 56 and 58 have become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 59. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 45. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Rule 72. Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u244	Thank you. Last one from the Legal and Legislative Service. Novela suggests that a new house investigation may be carried out even without your presence or the presence of your advocate. The new provision provides that, in the event that they are not available to the owner of the apartment or his representative, the court may appoint an officer under the official duties of one of the lawyers; which is contrary to what is provided for in Article 36 of the Constitution, which deals with guarantees in the course of the investigation of the dwelling and other premises and provides, inter alia, that in the course of the investigation, the person whose residence or premises are being investigated or his representative is to be present. That's what the Legal and Legal Service warned us about. This provision is in line with these legal guarantees resulting from the Constitution and we have therefore proposed the deletion of this Article in Levica; and we will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u245	We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 36. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 77. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 93. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 44. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the Left Group to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 113 becomes irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group for a new 141.a. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u246	The New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of this amendment. Why? To enable Slovenian citizens to rehabilitate their own – those who were unjustly convicted during and after World War II. What exactly am I talking about? In the present law, the rehabilitation deadline for 2012 has been set. It was not about any automatic rehabilitation, but it meant that the owners had the opportunity to collect all the documentation by 2012 and that documentation also goes to the court, where the court decides whether or not to rehabilitate. This deadline has now expired, just so you can imagine, on the basis of these things, Hribar's wife from Strmol was rehabilitated. Those who handled these things warned us that they had collected numerous materials from the archives to do so for their relatives; but now there is a problem in time. We have proposed an amendment with which to set a new deadline for 2020 when the owners have a chance to re-gather the relevant materials so that they can rehabilitate certain individuals. Once again, those who are ideologically very sensitive, let me make it clear that this is not about automaticism. It's just that if you collect the paperwork, you have a chance before the court to prove these things. We were also in communication with the Ministry; they said they would not oppose this amendment. But we went to them in this part because we initially suggested that this deadline should be practically unlimited, that there should be no ceiling; then, for some legal reasons, it was explained that there was a need to set a time limit. That is why we have set this deadline for 2020 in this amendment before you. I ask you to support this amendment and allow the relatives who want to do so and must do so in a way, of course with the appropriate materials, so that they can do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u247	We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 15. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 145. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 37. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 12. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted amendments to Articles 38, 39, 40, 77 and 141a of the amended Law. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u248	Thank you. In some ways, however, the coalition government represented this law so that it was completely good, perhaps with some minor errors that were not so significant. I can agree that the whole law is not wrong; in fact, it proposes some good solutions, not only good ones, but also those that are more than necessary. Let's say covert investigation measures for companies that make profits at the expense of trade in animals, and let's say they won't be able to play doctor's excuses anymore. These are things that we need or that we needed a long time ago. On the other hand, there is a relatively small pool, possibly in this amount 145 or more Articles 5 to 6 which are disputed. I don't think their dispute is so small that it couldn't jeopardize the entire law. We have proposed our amendments several times. We have insisted on them on the committee, and we have prepared them for a second hearing at the meeting, and I think I have already pointed out enough why these amendments should be accepted. To at least make this law nearly acceptable; or not only acceptable, but to remove those few shadows of doubt from it in contravention of the Constitution. Of course, there's no hearing. Once again, I would like to point out that, as I mentioned earlier, my colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Minister of the Interior, those who are in Levica, in some way in this national assembly, at least in this mandate, according to beliefs, and apparently many times, the opponents agree with our amendments, we agree together in these arguments, a clear sign that something must be wrong. Comrade Trček posted on Facebook today if colleague Gorenak and I have the same arguments against a law, that there will be very likely some anti-constitution in the game. I will conclude with this, and we will vote against the law because we insist on our conviction that these articles, which are left in there, which we have said are potentially not only inconsistent with the Constitution, but will threaten the rights of the weakest people who find themselves in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings. What has also been confirmed by the Legislative and Legal Service in its original opinion and then by this opinion has not changed, I think it is sufficient that at this point we should put in particular common sense and say no to such interventions; because they will be harmful and will be especially harmful for those who will find themselves in such proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u249	Procedurally, Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you know, I am one of the major supporters of this law, but in the previous vote something happened which, in the main purpose of the law, is aimed at speedier and more effective prosecution of organised crime, banking crime, the most serious crimes, is not. And it's an extension of rehabilitation, an apology and a change of something that doesn't change. If 10 years has not been enough to rehabilitate and if someone thinks it is right to extend for an indefinite period of time or for a certain period of time the possibility to justify treason and anything like that should not be the subject of this law; and let it go to the table with its rehabilitation law. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like, President, 15 minutes' rest to consult and see what extent this rehabilitation brings. As has already been said, the fundamental values of the national liberation fight must be maintained and certainly does not fall under the Criminal Procedure Act in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u251	Before I decide to do so, we will first listen to the explanations of vote until the end. Was there an explanation on your part, or was it just this request? Just this request. Then he has a word to explain his voice to the Magi. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u252	What we've just heard is a pure ideological outburst, because it has nothing to do with the amendment, but let's leave it. Today we have seen an unusual conflict between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. I think that this afternoon's conflict has turned a lot of things upside down and perhaps further accelerated all those criticisms that fly to this law. In this explanation, I would point out another matter that led us in our parliamentary group as an important matter in deciding how we will proceed with the vote. You probably know the case of Jankovic and the example of his blackmailing the pharmacist. It is precisely because of this case that we have submitted an authentic explanation of the Criminal Procedure Act; paragraphs 153 and 154. And this authentic explanation goes in the direction that it cannot be interpreted as it did in the case of Jankovic, that after two years all evidence must be rejected. What did the lawyers warn us about? If today's law on criminal procedure is adopted, our authentic interpretation will refer to a new law; not to the previous one, which means that the old Criminal Procedure Act will still apply to Jankovic. This also adds to this – I am now giving you a second-hand explanation of these legal explanations, which have been explained to me – that in such cases the one to be judged is subject to a nicer law or a nicer substance that exists on this subject. And now we are faced with a serious dilemma, if today's law on criminal proceedings is passed, then in some way we have solved Mayor Jankovic's procedures and in some way resolved him in that the evidence against him and these listeners will not be able to use it. In this sense, you must understand that we cannot contribute to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u253	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. Then I assign a 15-minute recess. We'll pick it up at 6:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u254	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. First of all, I'm asking the interrupter if he wants to explain what they've done. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will take this opportunity to explain my vote for the law on behalf of the Group of Members at the same time. Since the beginning, we have stood firm in adopting this law with the sincere intention of making it the best, through the request for a public presentation of opinions. We were among the most enthusiastic advocates of what has changed significantly today, because we cannot go beyond some fundamental values. And the fact that the last minute of the marriage is renewed through the back door does not prolong, but introduces the possibility of rehabilitation, for us, for the Social Democrats, but is not acceptable. We would understand this if, in a one-year process of adopting this law, we were to have a serious agreement and talk about it. Nor has this amendment been adopted on the Committee, and we understand that a fundamental consensus has been reached. With all due respect to the Minister and Secretary of State, the law is not what we agreed. The law is now distorting its fundamental purpose, which is why we will vote against this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u256	We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 32 votes in favour and 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Committee on Justice, as the parent working body, invites the assembly to adopt, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on the Ombudsman. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 57 in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Collective Actions, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2(1). We're voting. There were 58 Members and Members present and 49 votes against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 2(2). Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u257	Thank you. An important innovation in this law, which of course we support, is that environmental disaster drivers will be responsible for their actions. We are talking about cases like the last time Kemis was and so on, which is a welcome and good step taken by the government. With our amendment, we're trying to expand this a little bit. We know that it is not only the polluters who cause some direct damage, but also those who, through their activities, by overburdening the environment, also cause harm to people — Lafarge, Zincarna Celje, and so on. As a result of such cases, people are also entitled to individual complaints, and we believe that it is only appropriate and fair that the collective action law should also be resolved by allowing people to collect and file collective actions against those companies, those activities which cause excessive environmental impacts and thus, of course, also harm to people. I think this is good enough; it is not an excessive request, but just some logical continuation of what the government has proposed. That is why we will vote in favour of this amendment in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u258	We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present and 16 were voted against and 41 were present. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 65. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 votes in favour, none against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 2 and 65 of the amended Law. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to these Articles. On behalf of the Left Group, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u259	Thank you, President. I predict that we will once again table an amendment to Article 2 concerning the responsibility of the State in the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u260	The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday, 26. 9. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act; following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Tax Law on Motor Vehicles; under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 8. Mr Levica has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, chairman. I apologize to the stylistically sensitive for coming from the radio where we talked about the second track. But we're going to Article 8. All those who have children or children, as I say as Belokranjec, know that this is also a cost. That's the way it is. If this company and the state had operated slightly differently over the last 25 years, this cost would have been slightly lower because pensions, salaries and social transfers would have been better. In this article, we do only that the annual levy on the use of roads in the human language, or 50 % relief, is imposed on families with three children, not as before, with four. At the time, the Ministry of Infrastructure was on the committee, but it was the wrong target because it defended its part of the budget. “With this, I’ll have a drop of 2.5 million.” But, you know, this 2.5 million is at a better collection of taxes for those who don't actually pay them. Although our education is still mostly public, it's not for free, we know that. In particular, parents of children who are seriously studying and who have been studying for longer periods of time, we are also proposing that this be extended to school children up to the age of 26. After all, these children, including my five, will take care of ours and your pensions. I hope you support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u262	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u263	The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Left. I think it's a common interest to allow families with a larger number of children a slightly more decent life; and that's a good thing. Especially because the demographic indicators for Slovenia are not most pink. We are below average compared to even the European Union as far as fertility is concerned. Mother’s age, when they gave birth to their first child, has been in her 30 ’ s. There are a lot of statistical indicators that speak in favor of having birth problems. If you ask young people why they do not decide on a larger number of children, most often the following are exposed: employment, housing, and high financial costs. If we, as a policy of any of these three reasons, can reduce or soften it, we have done something good for Slovenian children. That's why we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u264	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 34. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 14. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 16. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment will become irrelevant. Mr Levica has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u265	Thank you for saying that again. That's the part of a marriage where you wonder if the pilot is on the plane. This is similar to the story we sent to technical inspections when we taxed the bees. What's this all about? We have major problems with cars like waste and decommissioning. We also have these problems because we have not developed public passenger traffic, even because there are too many people in this composition of the National Assembly who are in love with cars. And what is this proposal, which is essentially copied from German-Italian practices, where they have developed a car cluster, including the processing of used vehicles? Indeed, because we have not established this system, which should be established by manufacturers/sellers, we will punish people. Very simply put, on the Styrian wine road the omika die. Oma doesn't have a driver's license, car checks out. Of course, it will not take it to the other end of Slovenia and we will now punish it for 10 years because it has not decommissioned it, every year for a few ten euros. It may seem a little small to the Modern Center Party, but it's a month's pension in ten years. This proposal is essentially counter-constitutional if we are seriously reading our constitution. Since politics has not established a system, it cannot punish people for this; and that is exactly what it is. Some serious government, some serious MGRT would go negotiate with vendors, manufacturers and not let them bend and bend. Before that, Mr Milic, some other kind of sociologist, I met him on the radio; but now he would probably be some lady who would whisper that then the world would be over. The solution needs to be looked at in two ways: with smart taxes, when selling cars a few miles goes into the decommissioning fund; and in serious agreement, because it is also the obligation of those who sell our cars. This is the part that is forgotten in this National Assembly. Our proposal with this amendment is that this unconstitutional, harmful, I would hope, almost a crazy political decision will be deleted and a solution sought in the direction that I have also proposed. The obligation of the next government, however serious, is a different model of mobility and transport policy, which in two or three mandates will lead to the purchase of 20,000 cars in Slovenia per year, not 60,000. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u266	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of Article 14 of the Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment of Article 16 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Levica has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u267	Since you have not accepted the amendment, we will vote against it. Because in Slovenia, there is no sausage that is unconstitutionally cut until there is something else to cut. I hope we get rid of these kinds of sausages with our next term of office. Those who will then fall out of Parliament, but you have the opportunity to make sausages and go to competitions in good sausages. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u268	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 5. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We move to the examination of the motion for election to a judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Koper The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Katja Pocakj Brentin in judicial office to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Cyprus. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Registrar of the Magi Council. Ionica Marflak Trontel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u269	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the District Court in Cyprus, the number of judges has decreased from 14 to 10. The courts were not replaced at that time. The district of Koper, as a whole, no longer has any other judges who could assist this court in handling the cases, so an invitation to tender for a civil court in the area before you was required in this court. 31 candidates applied for the invitation to tender, of which two candidates withdrew. A specific selection process has also been carried out in the Court of Justice in several stages with the gradual elimination of candidates. The knowledge and skills of the candidates have been identified by the Council of Justice with a view to examining the documentary documentation and the oral interviews to which 13 candidates have been invited, taking into account the final opinion of the President of the District Court in Cyprus, the scientific title, the average evaluation during the study and the legal examination and the working experience following the legal examination. Among the candidates submitted, the Court of Justice assessed, on the basis of the entire document, and taking into account the oral interviews and opinions of the President of the District Court in Cyprus, that Katja Pocak Brentin was the most suitable candidate for the seat of the Court of Justice. Katja Počakj Brentin, born in 1980, graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana with an average score of 9.05. The legal examination was carried out in 2006 with an average score of 9.17. Since her legal examination, she has continued to be employed by the Supreme Court in Cyprus as an expert. It's deployed to a civilian unit. In its final opinion, the President of the District Court in Cyprus concludes that Katja Počakj Brentin meets the conditions for the session of the City of Appeal. The President of the Supreme Court of Cyprus, Katja Pocakj Brentin, has drawn up a letter of recommendation that, according to the nature of her work, she has gained a wealth of experience in all areas of civil law and that she is characterized by the ability to analyse and solve even more complex legal problems, the excellence in defending the proposed solutions and the very good ability to express herself orally and in writing. Such an opinion shall also be joined by the Head of the Civil Division of the Supreme Court of Cyprus. Katja Waitaj Brentin, a candidate, also interviewed members of the Council of Justice. In response to individual questions raised by members of the Council of Justice, it confirmed that it had an in-depth legal knowledge of the entire civil area. She answered the questions raised in a sovereign way, and she also showed very good verbal ability. Her analytical and logical thinking abilities can be assessed as excellent. This is how the Council of Justice proposes to the National Assembly for appointment to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Cyprus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u270	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Mrs Katja Pockaj Brentin to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Closing this agenda item and adjourning the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow, 21. 9. 2017, at 9 a.m.
