ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Jasna Murgel, Andrej Šircel, Anja Bah Žibert, Matjaž Hanžek, Tomaž Gantar, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 17 to 20.30, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Eva Irgl, Janja Sluga from 16:00 to 17:00, Ivan Škodnik until 16:00, Maruša Škopac from 16:00, Jožef Horvat, Ludmila Novak from 9-11:00, Franz Breznik, Jelka Godec from 15:00 on, Janko Weber and Nada Brinovšek from 15:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! In fact, I welcome the middle and the left part, which is not at the beginning of the session today. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the minimum wage law after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! Allow me briefly to present to you the position or report of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which addressed the amendment of the law. He discussed it at his 50th regular meeting on 24 November of this year. In addition to the Ministry of Labour and our Legal and Legislative Services, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Delavska Advisory Office also presented the proposal with the first-signed Luke Mesec. Within the deadline of business, amendments were tabled by the Group of Ambassadors, namely Articles 2, 4, 5 and 6. In its opening remarks, a colleague, Luka Mesec, presented the additional explanation on behalf of the applicant, as has already been said. He stressed that in Levica they advocate that the basic wages would not be lower than the minimum wage. The opinion was also delivered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or on its behalf by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Pogačar. He stressed that the Government does not support the bill. He also pointed out that such a sensitive area as the definition of minimum wage requires or requires thorough reflection and, of course, social dialogue. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was presented by Mrs Mag. The method of Hrvat Pirnat and the warnings of unclear definitions of treatment relating to the level of the minimum wage in net amount according to the other determination or treatment of wages in gross amounts. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal of the law, was also presented. Representatives of ministries, namely the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Finance and Public Administration, also presented their views on the draft law. On their part, it was stressed that the measure would have a detrimental impact on the competitiveness of the economy and a thorough and broad dialogue within the Economic and Social Council would be needed before amending the legislation. There was a debate in which some members of the Committee, with references to low wages, agreed on many workers, but also expressed an understanding of employers' concerns. In this mandate, as follows from the discussion, the Government has already introduced a number of changes in the field of minimum wages, but the fact that this area requires a broad social dialogue. In such discussions, we are forgetting the medium-term range of workers who contribute most significantly to the creation of added value and which is why the economy is growing so rapidly. The applicant is of the view that changes would overburden employers, reject and stress that they would be deprived of a small proportion of profits, in his view, only their greed would suffer. Following the discussion held, the Committee, pursuant to Article 128(2) of our Rules of Procedure, decided by eight votes to three, that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Minimum Wages was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u3	I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Luka Mescu, to introduce the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In Levica we propose a recast of the Minimum Wage Act, which would introduce three fundamental amendments. The first is that the minimum wage, its net amount, would increase to €700 from €1. 1. 2019. The second is to be with 1. 1. 2020 has put in place the formula that no wage in the country should be lower than 20% above the calculated minimum cost of living, which means that the minimum wage would become EUR 736 as of 2020. Thirdly, we provide that no basic salary in the country shall be less than the minimum. This proposal supported more than 7,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, our members and activists delivered signatures to the National Assembly yesterday. The proposal was also supported by the State Council Commission by a large majority, with six votes of eight. The only instance where the proposal ends is the National Assembly. On the home working body, the proposal was considered inappropriate for further consideration unjustifiably and unjustifiably; today you have MEPs and Members the possibility of a re-examination exam. Why do we suggest that you make a different decision today? First time. Since this proposal would help 120 000 employees with the lowest wages, it is said to those with less than €700 net in the public and private sectors. These are carers, industrial and construction workers, merchants, drivers, cleaners, warehousekeepers, in short all these important but neglected professions. It is time for economic growth to become a source of prosperity and to be felt by them. Another time. By implementing our law, we would establish a fair formula whereby the net minimum wage should not be lower than 20% more than the minimum cost of living. In Levica, we cannot accept the unfair position of the parties and the current regime, which maintains a minimum wage at or even below the minimum cost of living. Therefore, in this country, every fifth person who lives below the threshold of poverty is employed, so he works eight hours a day, but he cannot survive from his work. With our formula, this anomaly of our pay system would be permanently eliminated. Third time. We propose this because under our law, no basic earnings in Slovenia would be lower than the minimum. Today, most collective agreements in the country begin with gross salaries of less than €400. If you look at the public sector, you'll find 16 classes below the minimum wage. If you look at the collective contracts of the branches, such as metal or railway, the wages start somewhere at €340. In non-solidated industries such as security, there are people who have 240 Euros of basic salary and then their employers come to a legal minimum by paying the allowances. This is an anomaly which is unfair to these employees, which is antisocial and which needs to be addressed. This is the third reason why we propose the application of our formula. And last time, of course, you will ask if our proposal is feasible if the economy can transfer it. In Levi, we calculated how much the economy would cost, and we came up with the following numbers. The direct cost of raising would be €121 million for the private sector, which sounds great, but this actually represents 1% of the total cost of working at the annual level in the private sector and 4% of the total profits realized in the private sector last year and rising year by year. For the public sector, the effects would be even positive. The public treasury would receive even 10 million more from contributions and taxes than it would cost to pay higher salaries to public servants with salaries below €700. Dear Members and Members, all the reasons are here, we have a conjuncture, and if ever, we have the opportunity now to make these changes, supported by the 7,000 people and residents, by the Commission of the State Council, also come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The Law on Minimum Wages proposed by the Levica Group has been discussed this year for the second time, and this time we voted in favour of the proposal for a law not being suitable for further consideration by Members of the Modern Centre's Group at the hearing of the Labour Party. The reasons why we voted in favour of such a decision are identical to those stated when we consider the previous amendment to the Minimum Wages Act. The main reason is social dialogue. We have already stressed several times that solutions or changes that have a decisive impact on the relationship between workers and employers must be adopted with the consent of all social partners and must be the product of constructive social dialogue. We are convinced that social dialogue in our society is an important value, and by unilateral policy interventions we do not help to solve problems in an appropriate way. With this awareness, we voted on a decision of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on the amendment to the Minimum Wages Act, which proposed to the Government that, by the end of September, a proposal for a minimum wage formula should be drawn up in dialogue with the social partners, taking into account the minimum cost of living and all relevant labour market indicators. Our sincere aim was to resolve the issue of minimum wage in social dialogue. Let me mention, however, that the assessment of the minimum cost of living from which this formula would come was published only at the end of October this year, and the formula for calculating the minimum wage is unfortunately not yet known to us. Let us reiterate that the fixing of the amount or the amount of the minimum wage is the responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. It also falls within its competence to calculate the amount or the amount of the minimum cost of living, on which the amount of social transfers also depends. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we appeal again loudly to the competent ministry led by Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak to record more specifically the definition of minimum wage, thereby resisting the abuse of the law. We also expect the Minister to find an appropriate solution in the context of the social dialogue with regard to the calculation of the minimum wage to be adopted by the consent of all social partners, i.e. with the consent of the representatives of employers and representatives of workers. When amending legislation that has a decisive impact on the position of Slovenian workers, it is necessary to seek constructive social dialogue and, in particular, to result in the widest possible agreement between partners. Even in a coalition agreement signed by all 3 coalition partners, social dialogue is defined as a value and as one of the basic starting points of the coalition. We wish and appeal again to the competent ministry to follow this commitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! In the Desus Group, we have always been favored with a decent minimum wage to enable the survival of the worker and his family, and the worker would not have slipped into poverty after retirement. In our questions to the President of the Government, the Government and the competent ministers, Mr Desus and our Members, we have already proposed several times, in addition to the increase in pensions to the level that pensions would have reached if there were no past freezes of pensions, including the legalisation of a decent minimum wage. Of course, we expected that social dialogue with trade unions would also take place on the level of the minimum wage, which obviously has not happened so far. Let us recall Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states in paragraph 3, which states: “Everyone who works has the right to a just and satisfactory reward which guarantees him and his family a worthy existence and which, if necessary, be supplemented by other means of social protection.” This part of the declaration in Slovenia is not respected. On 1 March this year, the European Commission presented a White Paper on the future of Europe. In line with the principles of the White Paper, there are also more opportunities for the social future of Europe. Thus, the European Parliament, inter alia, supported the European Pillar of Social Rights on 26 April this year, by which workers have the right to a fair wage, is one that ensures a decent standard of living. The Union of Pensioners of Slovenia, which considers that the minimum wage should be an exception, also pointed out the low minimum wage. It also draws attention to the legally permitted low contributions from salaries to pension and health care establishments, in particular owners of smaller companies, and some, after retirement, take advantage of the solidarity of the pension fund. Such abuses of the system of solidarity should be legally prevented. In view of all the above, we can safely argue that the current minimum wage is not worthy, as the net payment of EUR 805 gross is only EUR 614 and the poverty risk limit was EUR 616 in 2016. Data show that the minimum wage has not been harmonised with the European Social Charter since 2014. All these years, the minimum wage is below the poverty risk threshold and is too low compared to the average net wage. Already in September, the Maternal Committee adopted a decision proposing to the Government to draw up a proposal for a minimum wage formula in dialogue with the social partners to take into account the minimum cost of living and the relevant indicators in the labour market as set out in the International Labour Organisation Convention. While the competent ministry responds that it has already joined and there are no results yet. The Treaty on the Potential Harmful Consequences of the Law on the Competitiveness of the Economy and the excessive pressure on wage rises in the public sector do not, in our view, have a real basis. Economic growth has been beyond expectations since 2014, but it is also about human rights and a decent minimum wage. Since we have had high economic growth in the country for the fourth year, it is increasingly difficult to understand that many people are working full-time, but they do not have a basic salary even at the level of a statutory minimum wage, and it is not worthy. Moreover, many young people are among them, and this will later have serious consequences in relation to the amount of their pension. So today we are talking about a minimum wage, which is the human right to a fair wage, which must provide a decent standard of living for the worker and, of course, a decent pension when the worker retires with a minimum wage. Although we have already made some changes in this mandate in the area of poverty eradication, we would like to see the necessary changes that some of the competent ministries have promised. But we don't want to take any more steps. If this bill is not adopted today, we would like Members of the Desus Group to make such a proposal by the competent ministry, which would finally provide all employees with a fair pay for honest work in Slovenia, a decent minimum wage. The current minimum wage is not, so she's not worthy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and friends, a very nice greeting! We have yet another amendment to the Minimum Wages Act, which sets out the following objectives: to raise the minimum wage to EUR 700 net with effect from 2019; to introduce two social security guards to determine the minimum wage; to equalise the starting wages in collective agreements and minimum wage contracts; and to set up work-time allowances and for harder working conditions as defined in the minimum wage definition. In its opinion, the Government underlines that in the Republic of Slovenia, the essential basis for regulating wages for different levels of complexity of work is collective agreements concluded at different levels, which are subject to free negotiations between representatives of workers and employers, who decide autonomously also on the levels of initial or basic wages for different levels of labour complexity. However, the Minimum Wage Act sets at national level the minimum wage that all employers must respect when paying workers for their work. Such a certain amount of minimum wage shall be coordinated each year at least with the increase in the price of living needs, and shall represent the minimum possible monthly salary belonging to a full-time employee, even if its remuneration under a collective agreement or contract of employment is lower. The biggest changes in legislation since 1995, relating to the establishment of minimum wage, were made in February 2010 by the Minimum Wage Act. When we raised the minimum wage by 22.9% in 2010 with the law created in cooperation with the social partners, we followed the principle that workers should also be guaranteed a decent life. From then on, the minimum wage shall be fixed by the Minister responsible for work after prior consultation with the social partners and shall be published by 31 January of the current year at the latest. In addressing the issue of minimum wage, it also led to the provision of a decent life, a constructive social dialogue needed. This was also followed by the last amendment in 2015, when, at the initiative of trade unions, we exempted three additional allowances from the definition of minimum wage, namely night work allowance, Sunday work allowance and holiday work allowance and working days after the law. However, social dialogue has not been fully successful, which has ultimately resulted in the adoption of these legislative supplements leading to even the resignation of employers' representatives and the conclusion of a social agreement. This is certainly not a good sign and should be avoided in the future as far as possible. The essence of the minimum wage law is to determine the nominal amount to which everyone who works full-time in the Republic of Slovenia must be entitled. The amount of the minimum wage is set at a level sufficient to cover a single person for minimum living costs, but it is true that the minimum wage is too low since it does not exceed the poverty threshold and consequently prevents a decent survival. However, the only good side of poor experience is that the need for a pre-arranged formula for calculating minimum wage has been crystallised to ensure that minimum living costs and relevant labour market indicators are taken into account when determining the amount of minimum wage. In this context, the key point is that the net amount of the minimum wage cannot be lower than the minimum cost of living. This decision was also endorsed by the Members at the 27th Committee meeting. 6. 2017 and instructed the Government to agree with the social partners on this formula for calculating the minimum wage. We hope that the negotiating process is nearing its end and the formula will soon be on our benches. Social Democrats believe that social dialogue is the value of a society and, as such, is essential and crucial in developing a country. The Social Agreement is the one that sets the basis for wage policy in one of the key ones, and this is the agreement at the bipartite level. Under the International Labour Organisation Convention on Minimum Wages, the establishment of minimum wage should always be subject to dialogue, not necessarily to consensus, but to dialogue between the social partners. Social Democrats are aware that changes are needed in the area of minimum wages. That is why we have written at the beginning of our government programme, entitled Self-confidence of Slovenia, that we will redefine the minimum wage in such a way that it will not only exceed the poverty threshold, but will provide everyone with a fair pay that will enable everyone to live a decent life. This is our goal, not on the first ball, but partial and unilateral non-systemic solutions. The Group of Social Democrats will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, wages are too low. That's a fact. The minimum wage in Slovenia does not allow a decent life for its recipients. Even worse is the fact that too many employees receive salaries that are even lower than the minimum. In Slovenia, almost 23,000 employees in the private sector and just over 8 000 employees in the public sector receive a minimum wage, which means that many of them turn to humanitarian organisations such as the Red Cross and Karitas. The bill seeks to administratively raise the minimum wage to €700. It will be difficult to find an opponent to this law six months before the elections, except for the Government, of course, but unfortunately the recipients of the minimum wage are as many times victims of the struggle for prestige among socialists. As usual, the government does not support the agreement between the social partners and the proposal, but does not present its solutions, for which the first is most responsible. But the distinguished minister, although she is not among us today, the socialists, cannot live from promises. With promises you can't buy food or pay bills. It is precisely because of this that it is so incomprehensible that our proposal for amendments and the addition of the Social Security Contributions Act have not been adopted before. The goal of our marriage is higher wages, but with a significant difference between employers and employers. The main proposal of New Slovenia was the introduction of a general relief to pay social security contributions that would most burden the weakest. As a result of our solution, the beneficiaries of the minimum wage would receive about €50 a month or €600 higher net annual salary, which is very important, and this is also supported by employers and social partners. In doing so, the cost for employers, i.e. the gross amount, would not be increased. At the time of the submission, we Christian Democrats met with all the social partners and were assured that our proposal could be a very good starting point for an agreement to increase net wages without increasing the burden on employers. We are aware of Christian Democrats, and that is why we are actively engaged in proposals for measures to reduce wage burdens with contributions in this mandate. The central solution we are proposing is to reduce contributions to the minimum wage. Our recent proposal for the Law on Income also had a higher net salary of €81 on average wages. Unfortunately, the Slovenian Left cannot support good proposals for the benefit of citizens solely for prestige and ideological reasons. The regulation of the minimum wage in Slovenia is the result of difficult negotiations between the social partners within the Economic and Social Council. In this context, your initiative to change the minimum wage is quite appropriate, but, as we understand it, it is not consistent with other social partners, especially employers. Since social dialogue in Slovenia is of great importance and a long tradition, such proposals could undermine the delicate balance achieved by the social partners with the hard work of all. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that today we are all aware that the minimum wage in the long term also brings very low pensions and consequently deepens social poverty in Slovenia. In almost three and a half years, the government and the competent ministry have not been able to prepare a model and calculations related to minimum wages and taxation. If you want to get to the finish line, you've got to get started. The draft decision will not be supported by Members of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u13	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of the promises, it is not possible to live, but not from the minimum wage below the poverty threshold, so we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Our demands are not only justified but also urgent if we are to prevent the poverty of employees. And it will not be done by employers, it will not ensure a free market, it can only be achieved by the state. It's time for that today. We are proposing only what has long been required by advanced unions, charities and citizens themselves. We demand that minimum wages rise above the poverty risk threshold. We demand that all basic salaries be raised to at least the minimum wage level and that all allowances be paid in addition to the minimum wage rather than the minimum wage. These measures are of vital importance to our 120,000 fellow citizens and cannot wait. We can discuss whether the net minimum wage should be set at 10% above the poverty risk threshold, or whether we should stay at the proposal that 20% should be higher than the minimum cost of living, we can also discuss whether our formula should be fully applied in 2020 or in the future, but there is no reason to consider our proposals before it even begins. In the views of the government and the coalition, I understood two excuses, none of which drank water. The first is that agreement needs to be reached in social dialogue, but let us look at where social dialogue has led. Until we have the lowest starting salary of EUR 400 in all collective agreements, not net, but gross. Social dialogue has led to a dead end. The only progress has ever been made when trade unions deviated from social dialogue. In 2009, they took to the streets and by protest forced Pahor's government to raise the minimum for 137 euros. In 2015, in this mandate, they coerced Cerara's coalition by means of their law to exempt at least some allowances from the minimum wage. In short, social dialogue in the area of minimum wage does not work. Those citing social dialogue run from responsibility to workers and protect the interests of capital. The second excuse is that raising the minimum wage would reduce the competitiveness of the economy, and this excuse is empty. A minimum raise of EUR 700 net means a gross salary increase of EUR 137, which is exactly as high as it rose in 2010. And if it was possible to raise the lowest wages in the midst of the worst post-World War II crisis, then we can do so much more now that we have the highest economic growth and the lowest unemployment since the crisis. Who cares about competitiveness, let them look at the data. We have a record surplus in foreign exchange, we create 2 billion euros more than we spend. A minimum wage increase of EUR 700 net would increase total labour costs by only 1%, and this would have no impact on competitiveness. Our direct competitor, Czech Republic, has raised the minimum wage by 15% in the last year, Hungary by 18. A 17% raise with 2019 in Slovenia, as we suggest, would not endanger anyone but would help 120 000 workers in this country. That's all I'd say at the end. Last year alone, the net profits of companies increased by 70%, to 3.2 billion euros, and no one asked what would happen to the competitiveness of the economy. Why, then, is such a problem when it is necessary to improve the wages of those who have made these profits possible? Let's not forget, all the value comes from work and bad wages mean even worse pensions. Let's raise the minimum today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Minimum Wage Act on the proposal of the Levica Group is now being considered for the second time. At the same time, I would first point out that the minimum wage is certainly too low, and it is unacceptable for people to work, but they still cannot afford basic needs, both material and those that would allow them a bit of deserved rest. This is how individuals, families, children, and many others suffer. By the end of June this year, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee, when the bill was first tabled, adopted a decision ordering the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a minimum wage calculation by 30 September. The government has not yet done so to date, on December 12th, and I am not surprised by the decision of the left-wing Group to reintroduce the bill. Nevertheless, the bill before us again interferes with the agreement between employers and employees and promises something that it cannot deliver, so our Group of Members will unfortunately not support it. However, if everyone, both employers, workers and trade unions and politicians, did their work in a quality and timely manner, a wide range of infertile debates would be saved, especially for citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for a law amending the law on the intervention in the area of the labour market after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Slovenia is recording high economic growth and employment is rising. Today, 70 000 people work in Slovenia more than in early 2014, which is extremely encouraging. Unemployment is also declining in all age groups, and as a result, labour shortages are already reflected in employers. Despite the decline in unemployment in all age groups, the fact remains that Slovenia has a very low level of work for older people. That is why the Ministry of Labour takes a number of measures, programmes to preserve the employment of older people and, in particular, improve their employability. At the same time, it is not possible to overlook the fact that we are still recording a high proportion of the long-term unemployed, which means the unemployed for more than 12 months, among those over 55 years of age. It is this group that must be particularly assisted, and particular attention must be paid. The draft law on intervention measures in the labour market ahead of you provides for the possibility of temporary incentives for the employment of unemployed persons over 55 years of age or prolongs this already existing measure for a further two years, up to 31 years. 12. 2019. The purpose of the incentive under this law is to encourage the employment of older unemployed persons by reducing the cost of working for employers and thus to contribute to reducing the long-term unemployment that is pronounced in this age group. At the same time, this will make it possible to raise the working rate of older people, and with more working age, these people will also be entitled to higher pensions and thus greater social security at an age. The incentive proposed by the Government by this law and implemented already today is implemented in the form of an exemption from payment of employers' contributions and is considered employment for indefinite and for a certain period of time. In the case of fixed-term employment, the exemption shall be 16,10 %; in the case of fixed-term employment, the exemption shall be in addition to the above-mentioned contributions, in addition to the five-fold exemption from the employer’s contribution to unemployment insurance. The content of the law does not change with this amendment and the conditions remain the same. The target group shall remain above 55 years of age, at least 6 months prior to the conclusion of the employment, registered in the unemployment register. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to extend this incentive because we are aware that in Slovenia today it is no longer such a problem to maintain employment, but the long-term unemployment of older people. However, the current law on labour market intervention has proved to be very positive during the two years of implementation, mainly because it has enabled unemployed older persons to be employed and is administratively not required. Thus, according to our assessment, the bill is important and urgently needed to further reduce the unemployment of the elderly. Again, I would like to point out that the bill before you is only one of the measures implemented by the Ministry of Labour in the labour market for the employment of older persons. In addition, the Ministry implements active employment policy measures relating to improving employment skills with a view to maintaining and improving the employability of older people. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u19	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 62nd emergency session of 30th. 11. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Labour Market Interventions, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided, at its meeting, that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, our Legislative and Legal Services and the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. No amendments were tabled by the proposers within the time limit. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect, and has warned that the applicable law on intervention measures in the field of labour market applies until 31. 12. 2017, which is why the proposed law has to be in force before the date when it ceases to apply and is duly taken into account in the legislative procedure. The Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons has presented its position and supports the proposal for a law. The bill's proposer briefly presented a proposal to amend the law, which is still under consideration here today, and highlighted the urgency and need to extend the measure to encourage the employment of long-term unemployed older persons as one of the key measures in the labour market to ensure that the negative effects of ageing are reduced. The debate followed, in which members of the Committee expressed support for the proposed law, highlighted the positive effects of the current Labour Market Intervention Act and supported further efforts to combat the negative effects of ageing. On the other hand, concerns were expressed about the lower inflow of funds to the social treasury due to the proposed incentives and the need for a longer-term approach to addressing the effects of ageing. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them without a vote, i.e. unanimously. As already mentioned at the outset of the proposal for a law on the home working body, amendments were not tabled, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled to the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the intervention measure in the field of the labour market be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u22	Your Honor! The demographic picture of Slovenia is all the more favourable. As a result, the number of older unemployed people who are less interesting in the labour market than younger employers is increasing. In Slovenia, we have one of the lowest working rates of 55 years of age and consequently a higher unemployment rate of 55 years of age compared to other European countries. The OECD also warned us about the problem that was exposed a little while ago. Employment of persons between the ages of 55 and 64 is only 35% in Slovenia. By comparison, in Slovenia, only one third of the older than 55 years of age are employed, in Germany, as many as two thirds of the older than 55 years of age, the average employment rate over 55 in OECD countries is 55%, as we are already exposed to only 35%. We are also well above the OECD average for long-term unemployment, since more than half of job seekers are unemployed for more than a year and are over 55 years old. The Labour Market Intervention Act, which provides incentives for employers who work under certain conditions over 55 years of age, was adopted in 2015. We supported the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party despite some concerns. The validity of the law is mentioned at 31. 12. 2017, but given that we are still significantly below the European average for the employment of older people, this period, as the proposaler points out, makes sense to extend. In 2015, the law adopted does not show such an improvement as was initially presented, which is more than 7,000 employees over 55 years of age per year. The numbers are slightly lower, but they are encouraging, so the extension of the law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party for a further two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u23	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u24	Your Honor! In short, I would like to present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on intervention measures in the field of labour market. The current law on intervention measures in the labour market provides for a temporary measure to encourage the employment of older unemployed persons in the form of exemption from payment of employers' contributions. The aim of this measure is very clear, that is to encourage employment of older, older generations, that is, people over 55 years of age, in the interest of their greater involvement in the labour market. In Desus again and again, we stress when we say that older people are one of the most vulnerable target groups, and of course we mean it. Every day they're older, and unfortunately, that's a fact that faces different risks. One such risk is unemployment. As a result, the deterioration of the financial situation of these people, the deterioration of the financial situation leads to a deterioration in the quality of life and finally to poverty, to the edge or to social exclusion. That's definitely a problem, and he can't get his eyes closed. Not because demographic trends in Europe, but especially in Slovenia, are clear, and this is an increase in the proportion of the elderly. But here we also have to see a challenge. We all know how many employers – not all of them, I must stress, not all of them, but the vast majority, many of them – are acting towards the elderly on the market. Under the pretext of either a contractual termination of a contract of employment or the termination of a job by an older worker, or under the pretext of a violation by an older worker, it is politely said to get rid of an older worker and to employ a younger person who is supposed to be cheaper, but it is not so, if possible, for a certain period of time or through reprimanding forms of employment, which is unacceptable, sad and tragic. Of course, they are older people, we have to admit, tired, more spent if you want to hear this expression, they may also be more difficult to adapt to some new processes, but certainly their skills and knowledge contribute to the whole work process and the working collective. In the final phase, there are other possible measures: reassignment to other jobs, mentoring, including development, and could be listed here for long and wide. In particular, data are of particular concern that Slovenia has one of the lowest working rates of the elderly in relation to comparable countries in the European Union and that the unemployment rate of the elderly has increased until recently, so action needs to be taken. We have taken action and we want to continue this action with the proposal of this law. This measure is essentially time-bound only until the end of this year, and therefore the proposal for a law providing for its extension until 2019 is not to be lost, it is not to be heard by a decision, but, of course, to support the proposal of this law. In the Desus Group, we will support this change in the hope that employers of this measure will also serve to the greatest extent possible to increase the employment rate of older people and thus not put pressure on the social exclusion of this part of the population. It was also very encouraging that we had adopted the bill unanimously on the committee, and I really see no reason for it to be different at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u25	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thanks again for saying that. Respected and respected! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will, of course, support the amendment of the law, which provides for the extension of the intervention measure for the employment of older unemployed. In the Republic of Slovenia, the number of unemployed persons over 55 years of age is also gradually increasing as a result of population ageing. Their position in the labour market is poor compared to other age groups, as older employers are less interesting and older unemployed people remain much more exposed to long-term unemployment, which, of course, has a negative impact on meeting the conditions for retirement and thus on the social security of the individual. It is therefore crucial that the country's efforts to reduce the negative effects of ageing be reduced by encouraging the early withdrawal of older workers from the labour market. This, however, is done by encouraging the employment of older people or by increasing the integration of inactive workers into the labour market. The purpose of this Act is to extend the possibility of applying a temporary incentive for employment in the form of the exemption from payment of employers' social security contributions for a maximum of two years if they employ an unemployed person over 55 years of age who has been registered in the unemployment register for at least 6 months prior to employment. The employer will thus be fully exempt from the payment of social security contributions to the worker, i.e. the employer's contributions to pension and disability insurance, health insurance, parental protection insurance and unemployment insurance. As we know, the law has been in force for two years and has produced encouraging results. Since we want more employment for older, more difficult and longer-term unemployed people in the Group of Social Democrats, this law will receive our unanimous support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u28	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! One of the major features or anomalies of the labour market in Slovenia is the rate of unemployment and unemployment of people after 55 years of age. These people have also fallen heavily into a vicious cycle of long-term unemployment, and long-term unemployment is extremely difficult to tackle with any measures in the labour market. It is much easier, cheaper and more effective to act preventively and prevent the unemployed from falling into this cycle. One possible measure is temporary incentives for the employment of older unemployed persons in the form of exemption from payment of employers' contributions. Their aim, according to the Ministry, is to promote the employment of older people, or to increase the integration of inactive workers into the labour market, to help reduce the negative effects of ageing and to encourage the retirement of older people from the labour market as soon as possible. This law, however, will only extend the possibility of applying these allowances for two years. Here, according to New Slovenia, is the biggest problem. With all the warnings from the OECD, the EU and Umarje about the demographic picture in the near future, when the ageing population will lead to a shortage of labour, such a temporary incentive is the best that the current Slovenian government can do. That's problematic. In 2025, according to 8 years from now, every fourth Slovenian will be over 55 years old. This also means a great deal of pressure on health and pension allowance and, of course, a reduction of interest in new investments and the creation of quality jobs in the country. In Novi Slovenija, we keep reminding ourselves that it is necessary to think 10, 20, 30, 50 years in advance, so we also convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on Demography. We have a strategy of long-lived society and others, but some serious conclusions cannot be found there. Today, on a proposal from the Ministry, we only fire for two years. We're asking the Minister publicly what we're going to do in two years. Are we going to renew the provisional measure again? In New Slovenia, we want to approach this issue in an integrated way and yet look at how to make the labour market interesting for older people and vice versa. In what way are older ones kept in active employment as long as possible? In Scandinavian countries, they are testing and also introducing shorter, such as six-hour workers. This would also give young people an opportunity, and older ones could play the role of mentor and knowledge transferer, which is very important. Members of New Slovenia will support the law, but once again, we want to answer what we will do in 2 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u30	In the left hand side of the law, whose validity is extended here, we do not, in principle, oppose. It is true that we generally do not support subsidisation of employees. The employee also gets much more from work without a subsidy than he does from pay. Employment subsidies are acceptable only if they are really vulnerable groups in the labour market. Unemployed workers over 55 years of age certainly are, but this does not mean that the current proposal does not have shortcomings. He's got at least two points. The first is that it does not protect the worker enough because it allows employment for a certain period of time. The second problem is that, as a result of the exemption, health and pension benefits are lower. The exempt contributions under this law are not paid by the Republic of Slovenia, as we also proposed in Levica at the time of the adoption of the applicable law. Unfortunately, there is no possibility of interfering with the content of the law today. Decommissioning for medical bills is a serious problem because these revenues are already too low. Under the transitional provision of the current law, the suspended Article 156 still allows a 30% exemption from the payment of contributions to those employers who employ a person over 60 years of age. It would make much more sense for this article to be suspended only for those who have received measures under this law, not in general. Although this failure is manageable because it involves hard-working workers, it should be compensated for. The best and socially fairest form of this compensation would be the abolition of supplementary health insurance and the replacement of this health insurance with a solidarity public benefit. Employment for a certain period is an even bigger problem for us. After the expiry of the exemption, the contract worker will not be renewed and after 2 years such worker will again be in the institution as a difficult-to-worker. His social situation will not be resolved in the long term. Thus, the vulnerability of the group persists as a social problem, the problem of our society as a whole, not just that individual unemployed person. It is clear why the social partners have agreed to such conditions. The older employee is more difficult to forgive, which is right, but it could happen that the subsidy measure would not come to life. But conceptually, that's the wrong way to think. We are the ones who set minimum conditions of employment in this country, and as a result of the subsidy, a company has lower costs and thus a advantage over competitors. This means EUR 3 000,864 of the subsidy for thousands of euros gross. In return for these funds, which will be lost in the social registers, we are obliged to request employment for an indefinite period of time. In this country, at least on paper, it is still considered that employment for an indefinite period is not a luxury, but a legal norm. And if we give in here in practice and in legislation, the standard of all employees in the country will deteriorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the proposal for a law aimed at extending the scope of the measures to promote the employment of long-term unemployed older persons. We also welcome the Ministry's decision that the measure, which has otherwise been in force since 2015 and has so far proved to be positive and effective, continues. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that we need a longer-term solution to address the effects of ageing, as temporary measures cannot be extended at all times. I therefore hope that this will be one of the priorities of the ministry in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u33	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you, President. Respectable members of the government, everyone else present, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, we are facing many of the challenges of today's dynamics. To a very large extent, demographic changes have an impact on society's policies and consequently on its development, which is also linked to the state of the economy. Slovenia, as well as all other EU Member States, are facing a high proportion of the older population, and countries have taken an active approach to finding answers to the challenges posed by the ageing society, and it is therefore very important to respond successfully to such challenges, which undoubtedly also require systemic changes in several areas. Ageing has the greatest impact on the health system and has a decisive impact on the pension system. Its sustainability is particularly important in societies where the old population or the population is rapidly ageing. In order to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, the working population should be encouraged to remain active for as long as possible and thus contribute to the pension allowance. As life expectancy is longer, it is logical to move the retirement threshold upwards, so older workers should be allowed to remain active for longer. However, employers must also help to avoid the employment of older workers through special legal protection, which goes to older workers under the law governing labour relations and the negative expectations of employers on the ability, adaptability, additional education and so on. Older workers are therefore identified as a more difficult working group in the labour market. According to the Employment Office, employers in job candidates often lack work experience, professional specific skills and appropriate education. In the light of this, the employment of older people makes sense to support and encourage by various complementary measures. The novel that we have on the table today prolongs the possibility of applying a temporary incentive to employ older unemployed in the form of exemption from payment of employers' contributions. The measure is therefore intended to promote the employment of older unemployed persons. The aim of the measure is to encourage the employment of older people or the inclusion of disabled people in the labour market and thus to contribute to reducing the negative effects of ageing. In our programme, we have stated that we are committed to higher employment and security of all generations, and we have adopted programming platforms to achieve this, which are also relevant to the employment of older people or to the extension of work activities. At the same time, the Modern Centre Party is working towards a secure and dignified life and, given that society is rapidly ageing, we are striving for a sustainable pension allowance, which can also be achieved through longer and longer-term work activities. The effects of the Labour Market Intervention Act adopted in November 2015 are positive. We are confident that this trend will continue in the future. The extension of this measure responds to the demographic challenges we face in the field of different policies in our society. We will therefore support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the mother labour body proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to 17. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the application of public funds rights under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u36	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As a representative of the proposaler, I would like to point out at today's consideration of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources in the first place that you have before you the realization of the last, third pillar of the project to reorganise social work centres. With this project, we systematically engaged in the entire mandate at the Ministry. With the already adopted amendment to the Social Protection Act, you have adopted the necessary basis for a more appropriate organisational structure of social work centres, with an emphasis on social protection work, which is also implemented in the form of social activation programmes. Today's draft law provides the legal basis for the launch of so-called IT calculations, with which all recipients and recipients of rights and subsidies under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds will be aware of all relevant facts and also of the amount of individual entitlements to which they belong prior to the issuance of the administrative act. Such an IT calculation will be subject to opposition by the party, otherwise the IT calculation will be given the nature of the decision. Furthermore, the proposal foresees that recipients of annual rights will have to apply for the extension of this annual right, such as child allowances, kindergarten subsidies, snack and lunch subsidies and state scholarships, only until the end of November next year, as automatic verification of the fulfilment of the conditions for the further receipt of the right is planned in the future. With this, we will relieve citizens and citizens by eliminating the obligation to file applications and by preventing interruptions in the payment of rights due to delays in the submission of new applications, as has been the case so far. By making procedures more automated at social work centres, however, we will eliminate the overburden of centres with administrative and administrative procedures so that they have more time to carry out and develop activities that prevent or eliminate social distress for individuals, individuals and families. Let me remind you that decision-making on annual rights under this law will take place centrally under the new organisational structure of social work centres within the framework of the regional social work centres. The completion of the complete automation of the issue of IT calculations for annual rights is planned in autumn 2019 by issuing the first mass package of informational calculations. In the future, the beneficiaries of annual rights will receive an informational calculation at home each autumn and the obligation to submit applications will remain only for the first request for individual rights and, of course, for the communication of changes. Furthermore, I am pleased and proud to point out that, with the proposal for a law, we are putting an end to the austerity measure in relation to the right to a child's allowance in the way that the seventh and eighth classes are reinstated. This means that in the area of family and social legislation we have taken a bite in the savings of Zujf, and I can already point out that, with the two future amendments to the laws, we will also propose the elimination of savings in certain other family benefits, and we will also propose an increase in the minimum income. The draft law also adequately regulates the unconstitutionality found by the Constitutional Court in taking into account the incomes of those who abolish the activity and further foresees other minor changes, which in particular reduce the burden of both workers at the social work centre and of all parties, i.e. citizens and citizens, by means of a clearer dictatorship and a greater automation. As an example, it would point out automatic acquisition of a change of residence and a further reduction in the consideration of certain assets. You have before you a bill and a package of amendments to the normative acts for the implementation of the reorganisation of social work centres. With the support of the law, you will give your voice to more quality, professional and legal work in the field of social protection, all with the aim of offering assistance to individuals, individuals and families and creating the conditions for solving and reducing pressures and problems. Since less than a third of the articles have been tabled in the draft law, I propose that the National Assembly hold a third debate on the draft law at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u37	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 62nd session of 30th. 11th of this year, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, the proposed Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introductory explanation, the applicant, i.e. the Government, the representative of the Ministry, stressed that the proposed amendments to the law sought to simplify, automate and rationalise the decision-making process on annual rights so that employees at social work centres would be burdened by the conduct of specific findings and the parties to the re-application of applications for the application of public funds rights. The aim of the bill is to provide a modern social security system that allows for a uniform, fast, professional and efficient decision-making on public funds rights. The introduction of an informational calculation represents the so-called third pillar of the reorganisation of social work centres in Slovenia and also represents a significant substantive innovation in the work of professional workers at social work centres. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly was presented, it was said that the draft law had examined the PSC in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had made comments of a legal and systemic nature and specific comments to the individual proposed articles. Individual comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the amendment of the law, was also presented. The representative of the Community of Centres for Social Work, who also supports amendments to the law, also gave her views on the proposal of this law. In the debate that followed, a positive Valentine's Day was exposed to this law. The debaters welcomed the softening of the so-called Zujf and the re-implementation of the 7th and 8th classes of child supplements. It was also pointed out in the debate that the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons adopted a decision in March proposing to the Government to prepare an appropriate legal solution concerning the non-inclusion of the child allowance in monetary social assistance and to submit it for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly by the end of this year at the latest. The representative of the Ministry explained that a decision was taken on a number of laws and that the Social Protection Act, which was supposed to regulate this area, was a public debate, but I certainly believe that we will come to these solutions by the Government. Following a discussion in accordance with Rule 128 of our Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted previously and pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, of our Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended law in which all the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I have tried to present briefly to you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u40	Dear President, dear colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government and other representatives present! That the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which we have today by Members and Members on the parliamentary benches, is a step forward in the direction of restoring the rights that have been withdrawn from Zujf many, shows the single support of the draft law on the home committee. Of course, in the Desus Group, we would like to be able to ensure in a short time that all important rights that have been forfeited to many people, especially in the area of pension, social and family policy, are restored. The bill we are considering today releases austerity measures relating to the 7th and 8th classes of the children's allowance. Thus, as from 1 January of the following year, those belonging to the 7th and 8th income classes will also be entitled to the child allowance. Of course, some of the austerity measures will need to be released, for example in the area of scholarships. In the Desus Group, we would like the competent ministry to take greater account of social justice in its proposals, even when it comes to the release of certain measures by Zujf. It is difficult to understand that social transfers for some groups of citizens, including vulnerable groups, are still not sufficient for the decent survival of many citizens and citizens, and, on the other hand, they are already interfering with public funds in order to give different supplements to some relatively good people. The funds available to the competent ministry for the management of social and family policies are alone, so that the allocation of these funds should be based primarily on the objective of social justice. In addition to the above, the bill has other good solutions. For example, it eliminates the disagreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court in 2016 and has ordered that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should address the discrepancies found with the Constitution. Let me focus on another amendment introduced by the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which introduces an informational calculation, which represents the third pillar of the reorganisation of social work centres. The Social Protection Act has already adopted organisational changes in the functioning of social work centres, and today we want to achieve more direct work with people by professionals and workers in CSDs. The need to apply for individual rights from public funds is also abolished. It is therefore a matter of decommissioning people in the annual submission of applications for annual rights from public funds. Here are children's allowances, reduced pay for kindergarten, subsidies for lunch for pupils and students and so on. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to introduce the already mentioned informational calculation, which is significantly more automatic only to the issue of decisions. In the Desus Group, we support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Maria Bachič for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u42	Again, good-bye! Respectable, the law before us continues the work of reorganisation of social work centres. This time it is a matter of substantive reorganisation, as the changes it brings creates the basis for the introduction of an informational calculation. We want to simplify and rationalise the annual rights decision-making process through an informative calculation. This would relieve workers of social work centres of the conduct of specific findings and the parties of the re-application of applications for the exercise of rights from public funds. The draft law also eliminates the shortcomings found in the Constitution and some other amendments, including the elimination of austerity measures in the area of child allowances. The draft law therefore suspends early austerity measures in the area of child allowances, and children from families with monthly income of 1019.86 euros per family member will also benefit from the child allowance next year. This is how we reintroduce the children's allowance for the 7th and 8th income classes. Due to favourable economic growth, it is right that our citizens also have something from the so-called economic growth. As we have already said, the reorganisation of social work centres includes 3 related projects: a new organisational structure of social work centres, which we expect to relieve professional workers of bureaucratic procedures and give them more time to work with people; we introduce a legal basis to enable an informational decision based on an informational calculation of income, and we simplify procedures for the enforcement of rights from public funds; annual rights will be dealt with automatically and people will no longer have to apply every year; and a third measure is the introduction of social activation that will ensure a coordinated and integrated treatment of persons who are long-term unemployed and who are most at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The key objective of activation is to help long-term recipients of financial social assistance as comprehensively as possible and to train them for new employment. These measures, with the expected results, strengthen our thesis that reorganisation of centres is very important if we are to establish a system that will actually work for users. Social work centres are professional institutions that should focus primarily on preventing and supporting the resolution of social pressures and problems of individuals, families and individual vulnerable groups of the population, rather than dealing with paperwork and hard red tape most of the time. The practice has shown that the transfer of decisions on certain rights from public funds and the new decision-making method of the social work centre has been more burdened than expected, since the number of administrative procedures on public funds rights has almost doubled between 2010 and 2015. As I have already said, an information calculation is a key novelty of this proposal. With the automatic IT calculation for annual rights, these are the children's allowance, the state scholarship, the reduced payment of kindergarten, the subsidy of lunch and so on, the unloading of professional staff and also of clients is planned. On the basis of all this, the Social Democrats will be unanimously supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u43	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u44	Your Honor! The main solution to the proposed law is the introduction of an automated computerised calculation of rights from public funds. The aim is to simplify and rationalise the decision-making procedures on annual rights from public funds, similar to the information calculation for income, in order to relieve workers at social work centres of the management of specific findings and the parties to the re-application of applications for the exercise of rights from public funds. In New Slovenia we welcome such a step, which we have waited too long after the introduction of the informational calculation of the income. Such an information calculation should have a number of positive effects on users and operators. In New Slovenia we hope so. However, we estimate that the Ministry of Labour here is far from ambitious. If we listened to citizens, to workers at social work centres and also to our warnings, the Ministry would have already undertaken a thorough overhaul of the whole legislation governing public funds rights and social rights. In particular, laws need to be simplified and the number of rules governing one area reduced. In fact, we do not have high expectations for this law in Novi Slovenija, since this proposal is only creating a legal basis for starting the trial of the number of applications mentioned above. Until the regular introduction of informational calculations on public funds rights can thus take years and years. Of course, six months before the elections, the announcement of informational calculations is a popular pre-election candy. We also support the abolition of the unconstitutional nature of the first paragraph of Article 14 relating to the recognition of fictitious income in the exercise of rights from public funds. This finally eliminates a solution that was mainly criminal to a number of young mothers who have self-employed with reduced working hours and who have had very low incomes in order to better coordinate family and professional life. Instead of being rewarded, they were still being punished, and that's not right. Unfortunately, this proposal of the law delays the opportunity to remedy the injustices, I may say, of the recipients of the State grant, Article 12(1) of the ZUPJI for receiving the child's allowance from their younger brothers or sisters. The then Minister of Svetlik, with State Secretary Kopač Mrak, promised that state scholarships for full-year children would replace child allowances. In Novi Slovenije we warned them, together with prominent family organisations such as the Family Initiative, that this is not true and they did not listen to us. Minister, to damaged children, students and students and families you still have a great debt. Unfortunately, it is not the political will to eliminate the recovery of austerity measures in the area of scholarships. We regret this very much in New Slovenia, so the Members of New Slovenia will not oppose the law, nor will we confirm it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u45	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u46	We will support this law in Levica because it brings positive changes in the technical-administrative field of operation of social work centres, without prejudice to existing social rights. Nevertheless, I will continue to present what is not in this proposal and should be. To begin with, I would like to highlight the main novels under consideration. The introduction of informational calculation and automatic calculation for annual rights will simplify the process of obtaining social rights in a way that will relieve both workers of social work centres and residents who face extensive red tape in the exercise of their rights. While the change comes later than promised, it is important and we support it in Levica on the assumption that it will also be technically implemented. Come in. In the area of child allowances, the proposal reintroduces the right to an allowance for families in the 7th and 8th income classes, also for those families whose average monthly income per person reaches EUR 1 000. In Levi, we do not object to this freezing because it is an elimination of the austerity measure and not a new one, but point out that the beneficiaries of higher monthly net wages have already received State support for children in the form of income-generating allowances, whose financial impact is increasing in proportion to the level of remuneration. However, the country should take priority over the poorest and socially most vulnerable groups and cut down on poverty eradication measures. Priority is to raise minimum wages, raise minimum income and raise monetary social assistance. We should start at this end. One such measure of social justice would also be the exclusion of a child's allowance from a set of incomes that are taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. This would achieve two important objectives, firstly, to increase the income of the most socially disadvantaged families, secondly, to reduce the need for families to spend their children's allowance on household maintenance, because they have too low income and are forced to do so, instead of going for what they are primarily intended for, this is child support. This is a serious problem that is also recognised by experts from the Institute for Social Protection, as more and more children, especially those from single-parent families, are found in socially disadvantaged layers. This is exactly the kind of proposal we brought to the table in Levica in March of this year. It has been supported by charities as well as the Council of State, but you have made a different decision by Members and rejected it on the home labour body. However, it was obvious that the members of the committee recognized the problem at that time because at the same hearing a decision was taken to propose to the Government that a legal solution should be drawn up regarding the non-compliance of the child allowance between the incomes in force in the exercise of social rights and that it should be submitted to the National Assembly by the end of this year at the latest. This should happen to this novel, but it is not, and the government has somehow decided not to address this problem. I think that, in particular, the coalition Members, who supported and voted on this decision on the Committee, should call on their government and their ministry to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u47	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The purpose of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds submitted by the Government is to introduce an automatic IT calculation for annual rights. In this way, the beneficiaries of public resources rights as social work centres should be relieved, the child allowance savings measures should be abolished, the debt recovery process changed and the change that has an impact on individual rights identified. The revenue scales as the basis for the application of individual rights will be newly set in nominal amounts, which will be aligned once a year with the rise in the prices of living needs. The draft law also eliminates the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the bill, but we agree with the repeated concerns expressed about the possible problems in the functioning of the information system, which is crucial to the implementation of the proposed changes. We therefore hope that the Ministry has made sure that there will be no backlogs in operation, which will indeed enable individuals to relieve themselves of the exercise of rights from the public funds they are entitled to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u49	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u50	All right, everybody, welcome back! Ladies and gentlemen, from 2012 onwards, social work centres have decided on 12 rights from public funds. Although the law has brought certain advantages, the scope of work at social work centres has increased to a greater extent than was expected. Unfortunately, this is reflected in the fact that social workers are overworked by administrative and administrative work and therefore do not have enough time for professional work. To identify this as one of the key problems in the field of social policy, the Government also recognised it and, in the context of the reorganisation of social work centres, joined in strengthening the role of social workers and other professional workers, with emphasis on professional work. The New Social Protection Act, which was adopted by Members in September this year, provides a legal basis for changing the organisational structure of social work centres and for the introduction of social activation, and the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources provides a legal basis for the introduction of an informational calculation which aims to relieve the parties of the continuous application of certain applications and the social work centres of burdening decisions on certain applications. The introduction of an IT calculation will simplify the procedures. For annual rights, the amendment proposes the introduction of an automatic IT calculation, i.e. the annual allowances for children's allowance, the state grant, reduced pay for kindergartens, subsidised food for pupils and pupils. In this case, the approval should be extended automatically each year. The Novela also foresees the elimination of inconsistencies with the Constitution, which was pointed out by the Constitutional Court, of a clearer definition of income scales in nominal amounts, which we consider to be particularly important, and of the importance of reintroducing the children's allowance for the 7th and 8th income classes. Thus, in 2018 about 45,000 children will benefit from the child allowance. In this National Assembly, we have already seen criticism that the current government is not doing enough in the area of family and social policy and that the current economic growth must be reflected in the release of the austerity measures imposed by Zujf. Family and social policy are also very important to the government. Let me mention only some of the measures released: partial exemption of the 5th Income Class for State grants, an increase of 10 % in the 5th and 6th grades, an extended range of eligible children for lunch and lunch subsidies, as well as others. The new ZUPJS, which we are dealing with today, is another step in the release of the so-called Zujf, pointing to the fact that the Government is giving great attention to family and social policy. The new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which foresees some important measures that can also have a positive impact on young people’s decision to create a family, is also being considered. We will therefore support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u51	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u52	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. We are aware that changes are necessary as the current situation in this area needs to be modernised, as well as the final decommissioning of austerity measures in the field of child allowances, which would have been long overdue after Zuyf if they had not been extended on a proposal from the current Minister. Improvements are also needed in the area of faster and more transparent decision-making on social rights, as the current situation is too bureaucratic for citizens and citizens who have to apply for different rights from public funds each year, as well as for employees at social work centres who are suffocating in bureaucracy. The Law on the exercise of rights from public resources therefore provides a legal basis for the introduction of automated IT to eliminate the burden on customers by making annual applications for public funds rights and the burden of social work centres by administrative and administrative procedures. The draft law also eliminates austerity measures in the field of child allowances. Children in families belonging to the 7th and 8th income classes will also benefit from the child allowance next year. In addition, the proposal removes the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution by proposing to eliminate the alleged recognition of income from activities of 75 % of gross minimum income, except to take account of income at the start of the operation. In addition to these solutions, the law also introduces changes that should have been adopted long ago, such as the alignment of income scales with the rise in prices of living needs, the burden on customers to report a change of residence, simplification in the area of payments of municipal subsidies and rents. In general, we can see that many words by the Minister of Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Anja Kopač Dark are intended to be one of the three projects that are supposed to be in the direction of reorganisation of social work centres. Minister Anja Kopač Mrak and, of course, her party of Social Democrats are obviously working past the profession at social work centres, as employees in social work centres are speaking the opposite way. Such a partial and gradual reorganisation of social work centres can only make these activities worse. Instead of dealing with people living below the poverty line and of course getting close to people, the situation is quite the opposite: they are suffocating in additional bureaucracy. If we are to make changes in this area, it is essential to systematically approach the reorganisation of social work centres, where the main word will be the independent profession and users of social work centres. Unfortunately, we note that the area of social work centres cannot be systematically improved as long as social democrats are responsible for this area, which have priority in introducing solutions that constitute additional political staffing and the inefficient use of social protection funds that are increasingly less accessible to those most in need.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u53	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 November. 12. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I also put to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. One of the major amendments to this proposal, which concerns or does not concern the introduction of informational calculations, is the establishment of income scales in nominal amounts. It is said that instead of calculating the eligibility income limits according to the shares of the net salary, they are determined by nominal amounts and it is therefore stated in Article 7 that the eligibility income limits are aligned with the increase in the cost of living once a year in January. This is in principle all right, fine and fine, but then in Article 27 of the transitional provisions it is laid down that this coordination is not carried out in 2018. The explanation behind this proposal is not at any point of content; it formally refers to Article 69 of the Budget Implementation Act, but it does not have any connection with the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. In Levika with the amendment, we propose that this coordination should take place earlier, so that coordination does not wait until the next year, but this year – why? The reasons for social justice are obvious here, and in support of some other figures. According to the Statistical Office, the annual price growth in November 2017 was 1.2%, and the prices of the goods were 1.2% higher in November 2017 than in November last year and 1.3% higher on average. Prices of goods of daily consumption increased by 2.3 %. In short, the argument of social justice suggests that this coordination takes place without delay and that it is not expected for another year. In conclusion, I also point out that we are working in Levica to ensure that the child allowance is not taken into account in the exercise of social rights. We already proposed this at the beginning of the year and went to the parliamentary committee in March. This proposal was rejected by the Committee and adopted a decision on 17 March 2017 to propose to the Government that by the end of 2017 it should prepare its proposal for a solution to the exclusion of the child allowance from the criteria for the exercise of social rights, which has not happened until the end of 2017. As I have already said in my presentation on the views of the Group, this is one point where, in particular, the coalition Members, who have supported and voted in favour of this decision, should insist and be held accountable by their own Ministry of Labour. Because then how much are your votes and your representation in Parliament, if you take a decision, you put something on the government and then it doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u55	Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Let me say that I will support the amendment of the Left. Of course, I wonder why the determination of income scales, nominal amounts, should not be applied until January 2019. I don't see why. We are just before January 2018, and if the austerity measures have been released in all the other segments of our society, I think it is right to relax in the area of families. Why do families have to wait in line? We can't agree with that. We do not agree with this in the New Slovenia Group. Of course, the law brings some good, positive solutions, I have to say about the children's allowance for the 8th and 9th salary classes, but I will stop here again, where one month ago I am also alone, as advocates in the New Slovenia Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Grants in the field of scholarships – here I still do not understand why students are not granted a state grant and why children's allowances are still included in the calculation of the income of such a family. I can go any further. I don't know why student work has to be taken into account in the calculation of public funds rights and the student doesn't receive a state grant. Why? What do you want him to live on? If he had a state scholarship, he would probably be able to study and not have to work. Thus, his work to survive and to pay his rent and that he can spend a week or a month in Ljubljana or Maribor or anywhere else, in colleges, he is counted in the calculation of rights from public funds and at the same time affects all other relatives, brothers, sisters, in the family. This is not a just society for me and this is not a just social policy for me! I call on the Ministry, but make a policy to separate the part that is intended for social affairs and the part that is intended for family policy. This is the only way we can talk about a fair policy. Everyone will know, and the student will know what he will get, so he can get one piece of social and one piece of family policy. I do not understand that decisions are easily postponed in January 2019. Some of us will or some of us will remain in the National Assembly even in 2019, I am interested in what we will then be able to do in 2019. Too much. We have the opportunity to close things with the new year already as of January 2018. I do not understand that there is always a reason why something should not be done, and then the law that predicted this, which had a basis also in the calculations, is rejected and it is said that "we will save it, the government will solve it" and then we see how things are being resolved. Whatever it is, we've mentioned the minimum wage before. It takes too long — including extending the status of pensioners — to take too long to find solutions. How do we get to the finish line?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u57	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already said that I am in favour of this law, and I will also support this amendment tabled by Levica, especially for a reason – I have now listened to my colleague Dimic and I think that a number of Members and Members who are sitting in the National Assembly are sensitive to this subject – that everything that this government is going to do and what this government is trying to give with or return to people is being passed on to 2019, 2020, 2021 and so on. This is no problem, for everyone can do so now that he is in power, but now that he has to accept the solutions, now that the child’s allowance should have been returned after Zuyf a long time ago, if we are talking about it, she has not done so. This seems distasteful, inappropriate, and extremely corrupt to me. Because when it adopts this legislation, it imposes on the next government, in which maybe the Social Democrats will not even be, which they would have been recently – that they would not be. Last time! To impose on those governments that they will have to do certain things that this government has imposed on that government — why has it not done so now? Why didn't she do it already 2015, 2016, 2017? Why didn't she do it? She had all the conditions. All conditions! Economic growth was more than 2.5% and so on. Now to smarten up, to try to alert Slovenian people and Slovenian voters and voters, six months before the elections, to make decisions that the next government will then solve in 2019 – the same as pensioners, Desus, were preparing legislation that they have now tabled in parliament to solve the problem of pensions in 2019, 2020, 2021 and so on. What have they been doing so far? What were they doing now?Oh, my God! I'm asking them! It's simple. It's simple, it's the same as if I'd done the loads or taken the credits and my daughter had to pay them. It's not a problem, anyone can load it. That's rude, that's irresponsible! The next government that gets the scissors and the canvas in its hands will have its hands tied. It will practically not be able to do anything, because with the current decisions – although these decisions are urgently needed – I must stress this, but they should be implemented now. Pensions could now be increased by 4, 5 or 6 %, not only by 0.1% or 0.5% or one 1%, and then we would not need to burden the following governments. The next government would then be able to ensure that pensioners would really get the pension they needed once so that they could survive. Same thing in this area as regards social services. It's the voter and voter fraud, because it's six months before the election, and I can't understand it! I hope the voters and voters understand that this is the wrong way. But when they were in power, they did nothing in this area. Now, in the last half-years of rule, they would have done nothing but burden the next governments to come. Because in such a composition as now, there will certainly be no more, because the Slovenian people are betraying and electives and voters have been able to see what this power, this government and these coalition partners can do. I hope that the next team in the National Assembly will be completely different, one that will actually be able to do what needs to be done for people, not to protect the privileges and privileges.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u59	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to hear the response to our amendment proposal from the representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Labour, and finally the coalition response. First of all, on the subject of the specific content of this amendment, it is said that the coordination of eligibility for social transfers in the light of the increase in the price of living costs is already taking place this year, not until 1 year. Like I said, I think it's the only social justice move. The cost of living has increased and there is no argument that this would not have happened. That's the first one. Secondly, I challenge the coalition Members to say why they do not call their governments to account because they ignored and did not implement their decision, if you wish, with 17 March of this year when we proposed the elimination of the child allowance from inclusion in the conditions for the exercise of rights from public funds in Levica. In order to refresh your memory, I should like to read the decision: "The Committee for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare an appropriate legal solution concerning the non-inclusion of the child allowance in monetary social assistance and to submit it for consideration and acceptance to the RS National Assembly by the end of 2017 at the latest." This decision speaks of the law that we are considering today, but of this solution and of this measure in the same law, it does not hear the spirit or hear. In particular, here I call for discussion and definition because we are in plenary meetings, and even more so on the committees, we see that the representatives of the executive branch do not comment on certain opposition proposals that we bring to the table in Levica. Well, they're there. They're quiet there, waiting for the mine debate to blow over, hide under the table, and then that's it. And the Members are voting, as the Government tells you, regardless of the argument. More! It also happens that the government party loses the argument because, as in this particular case, it has no argument in fact, it does not. In particular, coalition MPs often question this and again act like some kind of voting machine. You often don't even know what the vote is about, just waiting for that moment to come and press the button. Given how the debate is now taking place at this point, I am afraid that this story could be repeated in this amendment, so I am once again calling on the government representatives, why coordination only with 31 December 2018, but not this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Don't worry, Mr Kordish, as you well know, I always come by before you call anyone, and there is no need to worry that there would be no appropriate response. As regards the release of austerity measures in child allowances, let me say that this enters into force with 1. 1. 2018, Mr Pojbič. So we don't postpone anything to 2019, we don't delay, we don't postpone it to another government to release the children's allowance for the 7th and 8th classes. 1. 1. 2018 shall apply and all those belonging to the 7th and 8th income classes shall then be entitled to the child allowance. 1. 1. This Regulation shall However, the content of the amendment and what we are explaining to be happening in 2019 is the harmonisation of the income scale on the basis of which the individual beneficiary class is to be judged and that the harmonisation of this scale that you are receiving today is to be determined in nominal amounts. Not in percentages of the average wage that has been paid so far, but in nominal amounts, in order to make it clear to everyone when they calculate what income they have, in which income class they belong. That's accepted today. This income scale shall apply from 1. 1. 2018 and therefore there is no immediate harmonisation as they will then apply. With 1. 1. However, 2019 shall begin coordination. What did we do? The reconciliation of income scales has been excluded from the ZIPRS restrictions, which have been exempted from the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and families. We took them out. Why did we do that? Because we don't want to keep the mismatch going. We do not wish to do this, regardless of what will be adopted in the future ZIPS, or whether it is further frozen under the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and families, but we have entered the legal basis for coordination in this law, Article 21 of this Act and in future provisions stipulate that coordination under this Article will take place for the first time in 2019 and since then every year. Therefore, if we want to ensure this coordination already for the following year, the amendment should be proposed in a way that deletes this fourth paragraph without prejudice to the ZIPRS and the ZUTPG, since in 2018, the ZIPRS and ZUTPG income scales will not be applicable, because we have established a specific legal basis precisely with a view to exempting them from those freezes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. What we have received is a formalistic response that does not drink water. What we have learned is what we already know, so there will be no harmonisation for 2018, no peak, no end. Isn't it? At the same time, the reference and entanglement with ZIPRS, which in fact has no connection here, is due to the fact that the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia is not directly applicable and does not apply to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. Legal objection to why this harmonisation in 2018 cannot be, is not, but is not, as you have just explained, and as you have just explained, you are, in principle, agreeing with us. All we are proposing is that this harmonisation takes place already in 2018 and is not expected to take place in 2019. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u66	When I discussed this amendment, I hope that it is understood that we know what we are talking about, but at the same time I wanted to point out through the debate why it did not bring such a law as the Government has now, six months before the elections, to the table three years ago. That's what I'm asking. This is an important and crucial question! Then it would not be possible for these austerity measures, as far as the 7th and 8th income classes for the child supplement, to be carried out until this point, but this problem would have been resolved three years ago. Since there was 2.5% economic growth, this problem would have been solved by then. Why now that it is six months before the elections and when the Social Democrats want to convince people in every way that they will vote for them? This is totally unfair and unfair and also irresponsible work of the current coalition. This solution, as it is now in law, could have been proposed three years ago because it was all the basis. All the floors! Zujf also stipulated that when 2.5% of economic growth takes place, these issues must be settled. This ministry has extended these measures and cannot tell me. It's extended these measures! And if, at the time of 2.5% economic growth, it was known when it was, this situation could be resolved. The government could also come with this law, but not that it is now being argued in all possible ways that the situation is such that it is now six months before the elections that it has come with this legislation. Although this is absolutely necessary and thank God that it is, all I am saying is that three years ago, or at least two and a half years ago, I could have invested it. Then one would say that he is serious, not now that they are, once again, at the door of the national elections; next year or perhaps at the beginning of the next year. That's why I talked earlier about why I think such an approach is wrong, and then that things are moving on to 2019, 2020, 2021 and so on. Any marriage that comes six months before the election seems incorrect. All those who make such legislation could have done so three years ago when the Government was adopted in the first year of the mandate. Then people would believe, they'd say, yeah, these people are serious, and these Members, these Members of Parliament, they're serious. But you can see exactly why things are done and when things are done. I hope that the Slovenian people will understand this and will no longer fall for these established tricks of the leftist political elite.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 17th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a protection law before the Ionising Sevents and Nuclear Security within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Lady Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Government and others present! The existing Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia more than 15 years ago and was subsequently amended and supplemented several times, most recently by an amendment in 2015. This time, the proposer proposes the adoption of a new law, as in particular the requirements of a very large Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom laying down basic safety standards for protection against risks due to ionising radiation are transposed into the Slovenian legal order. The proposed law continues the process of adapting Slovenian legislation to the latest knowledge of radiation and nuclear safety protection. In addition to the extensive body of links provided for in the Directive, certain minor changes in the field of nuclear safety are also introduced under the provisions of Council Directive 2014/87/Euratom of 8 July 2014 amending Directive 2009/71/Euratom establishing a Community framework for nuclear safety of nuclear facilities, i.e. the so-called amended Directive on nuclear safety issued during post-Fukushima activities in the European Union. The transposition of the most essential requirements of this Directive has already been carried out by adopting new regulations on radiation and nuclear safety factors and on ensuring safety after the start of the operation of radiation or nuclear facilities. However, some of the provisions of the Directive, in particular as regards international cooperation and the provision of data to the public, will be transposed by the proposed new law. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make very quick progress in the main innovations brought by the proposal of the new law in view of the existing regulation and resulting from the new basic safety standards in the field of radiation protection. In particular, the news refers to radiation protection due to natural radiation sources, including protection due to radon in workplaces and accommodations, and measures to reduce exposure due to construction materials and to raise awareness of all stakeholders, control of general use items from the radiation protection position, management of contaminated areas that cannot be cleared, clear separation between existing and planned exposure, and exposure between emergency events, cooperation and coordinated action by all EU Member States in the event of an emergency, uniformisation of exemption and elimination of control over radioactive substances, involvement of medical physicists in carrying out radiological interventions causing higher exposure to patients, requirements for ensuring and verifying the eligibility of medical radiological interventions, evaluation of exposure to age and gender, reporting to administrative authorities in the event of non-intended exposure to medical needs, including an assessment of the need for medical examination of the need for medical examination. In doing so, further simplifications are proposed with regard to the implementation of radiation activities, as the new law for certain less dangerous forms of radiation activities also offers the possibility of registration only instead of obtaining authorisation. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that a third consideration of the law be held at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u70	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 35th meeting, on 29. 11. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety submitted by the Government to the National Assembly on a regular basis. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and Space explained that the proposal for a law to the Slovenian legal order was in particular to transpose the requirements of a very extensive Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom of 5. 12. 2013 laying down basic safety standards for protection against ionising radiation hazards. This continues the process of adapting Slovenian legislation to the latest knowledge of radiation and nuclear safety protection. The proposal for a law also introduces some minor changes in the field of nuclear safety resulting from the provisions of Council Directive of 8. Seven. 2014 amending Directive 2009/71/Euratom establishing a Community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear facilities issued during post-Fukushima activities in the EU. The transposition of the most essential requirements of this Directive has already been carried out by adopting new regulations on radiation and nuclear safety factors and on ensuring safety after the start of the operation of radiation or nuclear facilities. However, some of the provisions of the Directive, in particular as regards international cooperation and the provision of data to the public, will be transposed by this proposal. In addition to this, some further simplifications have been proposed in the draft law regarding the implementation of radiation activities, as the proposal for a law for certain less dangerous forms of radiation activities also offers the possibility of registration only instead of authorisation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service had given a written opinion on the draft law. The comments were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, while certain clarifications were provided by the competent ministry in respect of some of the other comments. Mr Verbič, President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, explained that the Commission supports the proposal for a law and proposed the addition of Article 177 of the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, providing that compensation for limited use of space is paid monthly. In the debate, members of the coalition and the opposition, like the Commission, unitedly pointed out the necessity of maintaining the existing regime whereby the operator of the nuclear facility monthly indicated compensation for the reduction of the financial resources of the local community and compensation for the reduction in the use of the value of local infrastructure facilities of the local community. In the absence of these provisions in the draft law, the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the SDS and the left-wing groups to Article 177 were subsequently tabled, expressly stipulating that compensation for limited use of space is paid monthly. The Levica Group also expressed its opinion on the 31st Article that the operator of the radiation activity should optimise the protection of people and the environment from radiation in such a way that they are at the lowest level by exposure, taking into account the social factors. However, it was also pointed out in Article 183, which lays down procedures for obtaining licences for the execution of a radiation activity, which they considered would also be subject to a provision which limits the authorisation to operate on a temporary basis. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a number of amendments, which are reflected in the report contained in the online system of the National Assembly. He then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The new law before us is without prejudice to the fundamental principles and objectives of the existing law, but to a greater and substantial extent aligns the law already in force with the legal order of the European Union. It is not to be overlooked that Euratom, together with the European Coal and Steel Community, is in fact one of the pillars of the development of the European Union and that such laws, in an important part of the evolutionary sense of the development of the current communities, constitute an important step forward, especially since ionising radiation protection is regulated in so many areas, whether safety at work within the healthcare system or the greatest potential threats to general safety, namely nuclear power plants. We can therefore find that the law is certainly worthy of support, but in the most important part the energy concept of Slovenia, which is in reception, and the question of the possible construction of the second block of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, have the most significant impact on the strategic security of Slovenia. Therefore, allow me to recall at this moment only the commitment that, in the light of the law we are dealing with today, a consultative referendum should be announced when a decision is made to build such a bloc. But as far as the novel ahead of us is concerned, we will support it by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u74	Your Honor! A law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety was adopted long ago in 2002. Over the past 15 years it has been complemented several times, one of the more extensive additions it has been two years ago. Due to the newly adopted European directives governing nuclear and radiation safety, which need to be transposed into our legal order by the end of next year, the Government, as a proposal, has assessed that a more comprehensive regulation of nuclear and radiation safety is needed, and that is why a new proposal for a law is before us. The proposed law is without prejudice to the objectives defined in the current law. The law protects against ionising radiations, in order to minimise harm to human health due to exposure to ionising radiation and radioactive contamination of the living environment, and to enable the development, production and use of radiation sources and the implementation of radiation activities at the same time. The law regulates the implementation of nuclear and radiation safety measures when it comes to the use of nuclear goods, as well as specific safeguards, for a source of radiation aimed at the production of nuclear energy. Radon contributes most to exposure to radiation and is the second most common cause of lung cancer in addition to smoking. The medical profession claims that radon causes about 10% of cases of this disease, so the new European Directive provides for much stricter criteria and implementation of programmes to reduce this proportion of death compared to that in 1996. As thousands and thousands of people die of lung cancer each year in Slovenia, we can conclude that about 100 die because of radon. The bill proposes new criteria and rules to reduce premature deaths due to radon. To manage long-term health risks due to radon exposure, the Government is committed to adopting a national radon programme. This programme will lay down, inter alia, a strategy for managing increased exposure due to radon, which includes health risk reduction targets and performance indicators. The reference level of radon concentration in the workplace and the criteria for determining multi-radone and specific radiation protection measures in these areas will be established, and the method and methodology for determining the annual average of radon concentrations. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the draft law brings effective and good solutions to our legal order, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Of course, we also need to ask ourselves what is the problem with this law, which you have all identified as non-problem. Krsko nuclear power plant, of course. The rated power of 676 megawatts, has an operating permit for an indefinite period, all other radiation facilities have, will have a operating permit for ten years, must be regularly renewed – only the largest and potentially most dangerous nuclear facility can operate indefinitely. This can only be logical for someone who is strongly influenced by a nuclear lobby. The adoption of the amendment by the Left Group at the hearing of the home labour body showed that there is agreement in politics on this and also on the awareness that the law must apply to all the same. The pressure of the nuclear lobby then led to an amendment being tabled by the coalition at this plenary session, which once again exposes and recognises some special status. The management of the nuclear power plant in its letters underlines that the operating authorisation was amended in 2013 and that a similar safety review must be carried out in 2023, which must be positive, so that it can operate for the next 10 years, and therefore the time limit on the operating licence should not be necessary at all. There is more illogicality in this claim. If the nuclear power plant is so well, clean, then there should be no problem of first aligning the operating permit with the provisions within one year, i.e. by the end of the following year 2018, and then extending it every 10 years. The nuclear power plant is expected to operate until 2043, which means that the nuclear power plant should, in the event that the operating permit is limited to 10 years in force, re-align the operating licence with the law and then extend it twice by the end of operation. This is not a huge administrative burden or expense for a nuclear plant. The reason for the violent resistance of the nuclear lobby lies elsewhere. On the basis of the safety review, a safety report shall be made and the nuclear safety authority shall, on the basis of this, confirm the further operation. While the approval of the nuclear safety management and therefore not subject to a broad opinion of the professional and interested public, domestic and international, it is different in obtaining an operating permit. It is subject to national rules, such as the Environmental Protection Act and the Environmental Action Regulation, which require environmental impact assessment, European Directive 85/337 on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, the Convention on the assessment of cross-border environmental impacts and so on. These require an assessment of the environmental impact of nuclear facilities and thus public participation, which is essential for a facility such as the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. This is essentially what the nuclear lobby wants to avoid because they want to continue to produce nuclear energy below the price that this energy actually represents for the environment, because the costs of production and waste management are shifting to the next generation and because they do not want to face the fact that nuclear energy is becoming less and less acceptable in the public. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment in Levica for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly, which provides for the harmonisation of the operating permit of someone with the proposed law and is technically perfecting it. The coalition is expected to kneel again in front of the nuclear lobby and has tabled an amendment that will allow the nuclear power plant to continue to operate indefinitely. In short, we have not only a chance, I would call it, but we also have a political responsibility in the National Assembly, which is a legislative body to do so. If we do not do so and the amendment of the coalition will be adopted, we will, of course, vote against the adoption of this law in Levica. More in the definition of an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. The use of nuclear energy for the production of electricity and research and the use of radiation sources in research and industry and in other areas are now indispensable parts of meeting social needs in the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the risks associated with the use of nuclear energy and the sources of ionising radiation, and also in order to reduce the adverse effects of natural radiation sources, it is important that this area is also adequately regulated, both at legal and sub-legislative levels. The main objective of the new law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety is to properly and effectively regulate protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety in order to ensure the satisfaction of human economic, social and other needs offered by the use of radiation sources and the peaceful use of nuclear technology. The law is a result of extensive additions due to the transposition of European legislation on protection against ionising radiation. The news brought by the new law in view of the existing law, which is the result of new developments, including post-fukushima actions, and of new basic safety standards in the field of radiation protection, relate, inter alia, to radiation protection due to natural sources of radiation, including protection due to radon in the workplace and in the accommodation area, as well as to measures to reduce exposure to building materials and radiation protection. With a view to managing long-term health risks due to exposure to radon, for example, the law requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a national radon programme for a period of 10 years, setting, inter alia, a strategy for managing increased exposure due to radon, which includes objectives and performance indicators for reducing risk to health, the reference levels of radon concentrations in the working and living environment, criteria for determining multi-journey areas and specific radiation protection measures in these areas, and the method and methodology for determining the annual average of radon concentrations. The law also regulates any planned or existing exposure in the event of an emergency containing a risk of ionising radiation and cannot and cannot be ignored in terms of radiation protection. At the same time, the regulation and control of general use items from the radiation protection point of view are being reintroduced, and we also have in mind the outbreaks of fires, and there is a clear separation between existing and planned exposure and exposure between an emergency, and cooperation and coordinated action by all EU Member States in the event of an emergency is also being exposed. According to the assessment of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, the law adequately addresses all the issues raised during the period following the adoption of the existing law, which is why it will support the law. It will also support the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, which in fact restores the regime as it was in the existing law. According to our assessment, the area of operation of the nuclear power plant has been adequately regulated so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Messengers and Members! The draft law is without prejudice to the basic objectives and principles of the law in force, but after more than 15 years of law enforcement and the repeated amendment of the law and the transposition of the new European directives into the Slovenian legal order, the applicant decided to prepare a new law. Most of the amendments or additions to the existing legislation are related to the transposition of the new directive resulting from a 20-year debate of the profession in the field of protection against ionising radiation and laying down basic safety standards in the field of regulating the protection of people against ionising radiation. The deadline for transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order is 6 February 2018. Some of the requirements of the new directive will be transposed at the level of the sub-legislative rules, the main innovations brought by the law, inter alia, relate to radiation protection due to natural radiation sources. At the same time, the area of measurement of radon in residential buildings is regulated and funding for these measurements will be provided by the State under the budget of the Radiation Protection Board. The initiative of the Municipality of Krško to Article 177 of the Law was also taken into account, which defines the liable person for the monthly payment of compensation for the limited use of space due to the nuclear facility. Because of all the facts mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! After more than 15 years of application of the Law on the Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety and numerous novelties, we finally have a new law before us, which does not affect the fundamental objectives and principles of the applicable law. Of course, one of the reasons for the new law is the transposition of the new European directive, which is the result of a 20-year debate on the profession in the field of protecting people from ionising radiation. In view of the practice so far, several recent governments have given us a positive surprise that we are not even late for the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order since the deadline for transposition of the Directive is February 2018. One of the innovations brought by the bill and will also be noticed by ordinary people is that an authorised medical physicist will also have to be present in the event of intervention of nuclear medicine and computer tomography, and not just in radiotherapy. This increased role of an expert in medical physics will, of course, require additional employment of such personnel in hospitals. The proposal for a novel gives increased attention, inter alia, to radiation protection due to natural radiation sources, particularly radon, which is present both in our accommodations and in our workplaces. Radon, according to experts, is responsible for as much as 10% of thousands of deaths per year attributed to lung cancer in Slovenia, so the more acute conditions regarding the use of construction materials, where radon is very often found, should contribute to reducing mortality due to radon. For the Ministry to take seriously with increased supervision, it is also seen that for the purposes of monitoring, the GDP is increased by 3 to 4 times in 2017 and 2018. This means that more measurements will be carried out in schools and kindergartens where our children spend more and more time and are therefore exposed to such severe risks. Otherwise, the competent ministry is already co-financed by the rehabilitation of educational facilities facing the problem of radon. We are pleased that the Ministry has listened to the appeals of the Municipality of Krško that compensation for limited use of space should be paid monthly, as the amendment entered into the text of the law at the meeting of the home working body. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 December. I am putting to the debate Article 183, as well as the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD and the Levica Group of Members. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nothing unexpected, or I would even hope to say something that might be labeled a definite event in the language of probability. When it comes to energy, most of the crossing of the National Assembly and the political space manifests itself through the human river of the glimmer, the sum of the britches, then the Left is some lonesome. In the autumn of 2014, the United Left initiated a call in this Chamber for public disassembly of opinions on where to go with energy, in essence on the energy concept of Slovenia. At that time, the Energy Concept 2015 was promised by the Ministry of Infrastructure. We may get it 2018, it is written by the energy lobby itself with the support of 90 minus 5 Members or 4 Members, one Member. That's basically a fact. In our amendment, as I have already said in my position, we expect only some normality in an approximately serious and normal country that the potentially most dangerous nuclear facility has a time-limited operating permit. That's basically the whole story. As I mentioned there, we talk about nuclear costs, we say, it's great, it's cheap, it's up and down, but we're hiding some of the costs of the future. I like to talk about pennies very specifically. The Decommissioning Programme Neck cites an estimate of decommissioning costs between €1.15 billion and €1.7 billion. We have some fund that collects these pennies, some data at the end of 2015, now it's not much better, with dividends, with interest we're not yet at 200 million. At the end of 2015 there were 190.9 million, little late data coming in. Then we have the so-called “NASRAO” as we used to call it a nickname, the landfill of low and medium radioactive waste Vrbina, which is said to cost us between 150 and 180 million, then it goes to almost double the amount. We well know that Croats have somehow raised their hands from the fact that this mixed state commission is almost not meeting, and now, after a long time, few have met because they repeated one of their friendly views under the citations. Well, the profitability of the portfolio is above those expected 4,29, but whatever we're turning, by the end of the operation of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, this block, we won't have half the pennies we'd need for decommissioning. Where do we get them from? In Maribor, we'd say we'd take them from the lunatics, take them from the budget. These are some things we don't talk about. The nuclear lobby is working very seriously on nuke 2. Even some elementary schools, because they have a lot of money, send some folds that are mildly misleading. Some of the non-governmental, more ecological organizations want to do a little bit of talking about it, but they don't even come into the media. And if we're looking at this whole cost, then we should also ask ourselves whether Gen pays enough or not, and so on, but we don't ask ourselves that. Member of the SD – as I would like to say, my former student – who comes from this more energy lobby of the Social Democrats, is already clearly talking in advance about nuclear power plant 2, about some consultative referendum. We know how we feel about the consultation referendums or the referendums in general. In the history of democratic, at least on constitutional paper, the Parliamentary Republic of Slovenia does not remember a referendum that politics would not abuse at least half if not completely. So much for that. This is now some kind of square circle that we have, and some effort, will, has turned out to be the responsibility of the legislative body, which, after all, the National Assembly is to step on that cat's tail and then this cat doesn't have to growl. The energy lobby's on edge. Member Trček was almost a year without discipline in Maribor because he talked about it. However, there is another reason that LDS did not pay some electricity in 2002 and 2003. Earlier he told me down at the bar of an expert, 30 years in the National Assembly: “You know the LDS never fell apart, just a little bit...” So much for some of the customers who are coming and who will once again be in favor of this and such an energy lobby, but the omiks in Maribor will growle over the billboards and then everyone will talk, all of you are the same. I'm just about to start suing people when they start telling me this, but I'm not exactly John Janša or Dimitri Rupel or anyone to sue people. I think we need to talk about things seriously. Of course, we always have a story, there's a European directive coming, and this time it's not even late as some previous government. Tragically, this is said by a party who has been in all governments since 2000 when it reads opinions and is fine and safe and radon up and down when we have had a problem with radon in kindergartens, which is still not adequately solved in many today, but other pollution, including some shrubs that are planted in kindergartens, and will eat that and die, is not being addressed in practice. That's the third key task of the National Assembly or if you want a fourth. The first is to somehow address where we want to go, these are strategies, the second is appropriate legislation, the third is to bless the right people with proper functions according to Peter's principle, the fourth is how things happen in practice, which we often forget. In practice, things happen scandalously. A while ago, a gentleman on one of the social networks wrote, when Milka Planinc was then the Prime Minister was at their home because they were family friends, and said, "We are very bad at running this society and the country." I don't think I'm nostalgic about any old systems, just going from bad to worse. It seems extremely irresponsible to me that — except for this exception of five, well, also former comrade Hanžek, six — all other Members and Members of Parliament are somehow subject to the energy lobby. Of course, when you come to Slovenia to politics, they weigh you first, if you're a little bit important, they threaten you first, how they kill you, that's who we are, then they tell you if you want to survive in politics, not to scratch in an energy lobby, not to scratch in a bank lobby, not to scratch in a concrete mafia, not to scratch in an infrastructure-meter lobby. And now the vast majority of you accept this recommendation to the detriment of all of us. This damage is, of course, accumulated. This is so Over-Mura Moving Cake, this is some movement that we have been looking at for 26 years now, and then we wonder where we are – why pensions are like, why now the Social Democrat, the leader of the parliamentary group, is saying that raising the minimum wage will mean breaking the middle class. Where do you have a middle class in Slovenia? He's almost gone! In short, let's stop blinding ourselves. Of course, European directives are often a convenient thing to hide something, and then in these positions first, if the Government's proponent comes from the government, someone talks about the substance of the law, then the parent's body rapporteur talks about it, especially if it comes from the coalition, then we have five, six, seven opinions, because it happens five more times. You know, time is money too, and as long as we sit in Parliament like this, most of them - I mean, because if it's told twice what the law is, why does it have to be repeated five more times? Then one would expect the views of the members of the groups to actually tell us where the problem is. But if you want to do this, of course you have to read it yourself, your experts have to work too late in the night to pay too late. Why would we do that if it suits you the way it is, doesn't it? Unfortunately, I'm afraid people won't miss it, because we'd need more than an ophthalmologist's exam, because our eyesight is already depraved, not just in the field of energy. We'd need one serious operation and then things might change. As we have heard from these announcements in our positions, you will not support our amendment, and of course we cannot, as a result, support such and such a law. The draft energy concept that we have ahead of us shows that we are in the field of energy, I hope to say, 30 years for neighbouring Austria. I could now, I still have time to talk about local, regional energy self-sustainment, which also needs to be integrated into economic and industrial policy, which needs to be attached to smart specialisation, which needs to be attached to economic diplomacy and exported to the region. But come on, these are some stories that the Mad Duck tells on behalf of the Left. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u85	Thank you very much. There's no more applications. Does anyone else want to discuss it? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed regulation on motor vehicles within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u86	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 35th session. 11. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the Proposal for a Law on Motor Vehicles submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Jure Leben, stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law partially implements three European vehicle directives and regulates fully the conditions for placing motor vehicles and trailers on the market, their registration and participation in road transport or the performance of agricultural or forestry works, for the placing on the market of parts of these vehicles and protective devices for drivers and passengers, and for the management of vehicle databases. The proposal lays down the centralised competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure for the systematic management of vehicle-related issues, the powers of the Public Agency for Transport Safety to carry out operational tasks and professional supervision and the powers of inspection are conferred on the Infrastructure Inspectorate and certain other inspectorates. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Samo Dijak, said that the comments from their written legal opinion were mostly duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and additional written explanations were provided by the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding the remaining warnings. With regard to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 49 to which the Legislative and Legal Service has not commented and has extended the time limit for technical inspections of vehicles owned by voluntary firefighting companies used for the transport of a group of children, the proposed extension was not duly substantiated. With regard to the amendments of the NSI Group, it was appropriate to consider in Article 51 excluding the liability of the owner of the vehicle for the offence of manipulating the number of kilometres transported if he did not know about it. Mr Jernej Verbič, Councillor of State, presented the written opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the bill and has no comments on it. However, he drew attention to the proposaler's findings that some of the tasks envisaged in 2010 were not carried out or carried out to a lesser extent due to unrealised staffing support at the competent ministry. In this regard, the Commission expects new jobs to be structured in the competent institutions as soon as possible, as the decline in the quality of work in all the institutions involved in the field of vehicles and the lack of supervision in the whole field of vehicles is a poor traffic safety. Mr Borut Mišica, representative of the Section for Professional and Registration Organizations of Motor and Trailer Vehicles at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, objected to the proposed amendment to Article 49, which, by the way, addresses the material situation of voluntary firefighting companies, but could have a negative impact on traffic safety. In the debate, Member Zvonko Lah presented the amendments of the NSI Group, which prevent abuse of the status of kilometre counters and sanctions for the offence of such manipulation or the owner of the vehicle. The representative of the applicant explained that they did not support these amendments, since the number of kilometres transported is only an indicator and does not affect the safety of the vehicle. In 2018, the Ministry of Infrastructure, together with the Public Transport Safety Agency, will develop a new instrument to identify such manipulations, which will be made publicly available online. They agree, however, with the comment of the Legislative and Legal Service on the exclusion of the liability of the owner of the vehicle, who did not know for manipulation what the committee followed with the adoption of its amendment. The Committee then adopted a larger number of amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups and its amendment to the 51st Article. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the NSI Group to Articles 30, 63 and 87 and did not vote on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 51, as it was withdrawn by the proposer. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u88	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! The Motor Vehicle Act is a law that has been amended or supplemented by the Government for the second time in a good year. Let me remind you, last October, we Members adopted amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act, which introduced a new definition of motorcycles with engines or mopeds that do not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. As from 1 May, these mopeds must be registered and protected by law and carried out by technical inspection. We've discussed this nonsense a lot. At the time of the adoption of this novel, Infrastructure Minister Peter Gasperšič announced the drafting of a law with comprehensive amendments that we are considering today. At the initiative of the Section of authorised dealers and repairers with motor vehicles at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, we tabled several amendments to improve the proposal of the law and on the working body were rejected, although we had good and professional reasons to adopt. A large proportion of used vehicles come to Slovenia from imports. The measures to prevent the reduction of the situation on kilometres in these imported vehicles are not provided for by law, introduce a fine for the owner of the vehicle in which the infringement will be detected and a fine for those who have manipulated the counter. But who will find them effectively? This is not understood in the bill. We are pleased that the Legislative and Legal Service has recognised the good purpose of our amendment to Article 51 of the bill and has proposed an amendment to the committee that addresses the issue of imposing a fine on the owner of the vehicle, where the infringement will be detected if he knew about it. In the New Slovenia Group for the Prevention of Abuse in Used Vehicles, we propose to verify and record the number of kilometres transported in the process of identification and assessment of the technical condition of the vehicle. The data should be copied from the contract for the purchase of a used vehicle. If the counter position has been reduced from the time of identification until registration, the vehicle should not be registered. We have also proposed this with the amendment to Article 87 of the bill and you have not supported it in the coalition. Today we have tabled it again, as well as the amendment to Article 30. The adoption of both amendments of the New Slovenia Group would, however, slightly improve the bill. We expect the two amendments to be supported by reason and support. Otherwise, we cannot support the draft law in such a form in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The new Motor Vehicle Act, which we are dealing with today, is necessary in order to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union. These are the Directives on regular technical inspections of vehicles, vehicle registration documents and roadside inspection of the technical integrity of commercial vehicles and the Annex to the European Infringement Regulation. The law fully lays down the conditions for the placing on the market of motor vehicles and trailers, their registration, their participation in road transport or for tractors for the management of agricultural or forestry works and for the management of vehicle databases. It also lays down conditions for the placing on the market of parts of motor vehicles and protective devices for drivers and passengers. This law and regulations, which will be issued on its basis, will regulate all technical requirements for road vehicles. All vehicle conformity assessment procedures and the conditions to be met by legal persons and independent entrepreneurs are also regulated by individuals participating in these procedures on the basis of public powers. The law takes into account the centralisation of competences for the systematic management of issues relating to motor vehicles at the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is the fundamental principle of this law, with the powers to carry out operational tasks assigned to the Agency for Transport Safety and the powers of inspection to the Infrastructure Inspectorate. Two amendments have been tabled to the bill. In Article 30, by which the applicant proposes to attach to the application for registration, in addition to other evidence which is not available to the registration organisation, a certificate of the condition of the kilometre counter of the vehicle issued by the person registered for maintenance and repair of the replacement vehicle shall be attached. The Ministry of Infrastructure has already explained in its consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the parent working body that the meter of the km transported in the road vehicle is one of the indicators, which means that it is not a legally prescribed instrument of measurement, but that its data serves only as information to the driver, unlike the speed gauge for which there is an approval rule for its operation and testing. In addition, the kilometre counter does not have a direct impact on the vehicle safety, since the way the vehicle is used, the frequency and quality of the vehicle’s maintenance and the conditions under which the vehicle is used have a much greater impact. In addition, the Ministry of Infrastructure, together with the Transport Safety Agency, is already preparing other ways to prevent harmful manipulation of kilometre counters. However, in our view, the amendment to Article 87 is not necessary at all, since, with the amendment of the coalition adopted on the home working body, we have responded appropriately to the question of the further validity of the vehicle registration procedures both for technical services, professional and registration organisations and for persons registered for the vehicle sales activity, as we provide that the applicable powers remain in force on the day of the application of this Act. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the law, but we will not support the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Motor Vehicle Act partially implements the three European Vehicle Directives and fully regulates the conditions for the placing on the market of motor vehicles and trailers, for their registration and participation in road transport or for the carrying out of agricultural and forestry works, as well as for the placing on the market of parts of these vehicles and protective devices for drivers and passengers, and for the maintenance of databases on all vehicles. The amendment adopted by the coalition on the abuse of the changing state of the kilometre counter does not solve this problem, since the added diction, if he knew about it, still allows manipulation. In order to prevent abuse in used vehicles, the number of kilometres transported shall be checked and recorded during the identification and assessment process of the technical condition of the vehicle. The procedure should be copied from the contract for the purchase of a used vehicle if the condition of the counter has been reduced from the time of identification until registration, the vehicle should not be registered. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the addition to the law and, of course, if the amendments are rejected, we cannot support such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! We have before us a proposal for a law which, due to extensive amendments and additions to the implementation of the provisions of the European Vehicle Directives, needs a thorough overhaul. The key solutions introduced in the new law are in the areas of regular technical inspections of vehicles, vehicle registration documents and roadside inspections of the technical integrity of commercial vehicles. This reform does not affect the principles and objectives of the existing law. At the same time, the draft law regulates the conditions for placing motor vehicles and trailers on the market, their registration and their participation in road transport and the maintenance of vehicle databases. The Ministry also implements the commitments made to regulate the problem of mopeds, whose maximum speed is limited to 25 kilometres per hour, so that technical checks for these mopeds will be carried out every 5 years. The Public Agency for Transport Safety will be given additional powers to carry out operational tasks and professional supervision, and at the same time the Agency will be given the opportunity for additional employment. In the Desus Group, we expect that the additional employment and additional resources that have been allocated to the Agency through the latest amendment of the Drivers Act will be reflected in greater transport safety, which will not only be based on the imposition of repressive measures on drivers, but mainly on awareness and awareness and prevention activities that should start in early youth. At the very meeting of the mother’s working body, we also heard warnings of abuse in changing the status of the kilometre counters. In the view of the Ministry of Kilometers, while not affecting vehicle safety, they committed themselves, together with the Public Transport Safety Agency, to develop a new instrument to identify such manipulations which will be made publicly available online. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, the draft law lays down the conditions for placing motor vehicles and trailers on the market, for their registration and for their participation in road transport or for their appropriate industrial use. Given that the law has both the support of the State Council and, following the amendments tabled, the coalition parliamentary groups, adequately addressed the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service, we estimate in the Group of Social Democrats that it is suitable for adoption or further consideration. However, it is important to follow some of the concerns at this point and to note that too often interference with the same law, in this case in the Motor Vehicle Act, does not, of course, fully follow the principle of legal certainty and the rule of law, precisely because this law is being dealt with for the second time in the same year. It would be important that in any case it is clear to everyone what the law is and that the changes that we are also adopting in this assembly are not so common that the beneficiaries of this law do not find themselves in a situation where they are constantly familiar with the novelties, the new mechanisms, the new principles and perhaps the new objectives of the law. As has already been said, the existing law is necessary in two respects. The first one has already been presented, and the second one is, of course, harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union and, last but not least, the additional powers and tasks of the Public Agency for Transport Protection, as we do not yet achieve all strategic objectives in transport as a country. For we must find that the presence of alcohol, illicit drugs, and dangerous driving on our roads have not yet been reduced to a level at which they can be proud. Of course, the key question is how the law will benefit the public agency. In the Group of Social Democrats, we hope that this will not only mean new job systematisations, but also increased efficiency in preventing possible risks in transport and in particular upgrading our transport policy, particularly in the area of preventive action and the active involvement of citizens and citizens in ensuring the strategic objectives of the country. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 11 December. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. We tabled this amendment because the situation on the counters is changing. Those who import cars lower the number of kilometres on the counters and then sell them. In this case, if later, when the owner of the vehicle has sold the vehicle, it finds that the situation on the counter is not correct, the owner of the vehicle shall be liable, although it is innocent. Therefore, we propose that the situation on the counter be copied from the contract when the driver or that company or legal person bought the vehicle and that in the contract itself, the situation following the vehicle from the start is from the buyer to the buyer, so that it is finally known who is to blame if the correction on the counter has occurred. This is our proposal, because it is a huge drawback because serious legal entities that deal with it and are responsible, also provide guarantees, do it, and some minor espouses do not do so and exploit the ignorance of buyers and thus sell them cars that have substantially more kilometres transported than the situation on the counter.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 87 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the course of the sitting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill on critical infrastructure within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Andrei Katič, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u100	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I apologize for coming directly from the Civil Protection Headquarters. With regard to the Critical Infrastructure Act, in Slovenia we started to work more actively on the protection of critical infrastructure after the adoption of the European Critical Infrastructure Protection Programme in 2006. In 2011, the European Critical Infrastructure Regulation transposed the Council Directive on the identification and determination of European critical infrastructure and on the assessment of the need to improve its protection. In 2010, a definition of critical infrastructure of State importance was established in the Republic of Slovenia, and criteria for determining critical infrastructure and its sectors were adopted in 2012 and the Government established critical infrastructure of State importance in 2014. The shortcomings identified during this period are that we do not have a comprehensively regulated procedure for identifying and determining critical infrastructure, defined principles and obligations in its protection, specific responsibilities and responsibilities of the authorities and organisations in ensuring the continuous functioning of critical infrastructure and established relations in information, reporting and supporting critical infrastructure decision-making, as well as in the area of ensuring the protection of critical infrastructure. All of this needs to be addressed in particular in order to ensure preparedness for emergency events in the operation of critical infrastructure and crisis caused by the failure of critical infrastructure and to respond effectively to such events and crises in the first place to critical infrastructure managers, as well as to sector and government operators and, last but not least, to all other stakeholders in the field of the protection of critical infrastructure from the public and private world. The adoption of this law or its progressive application can be expected to achieve, above all, the following objectives. A comprehensive regulation will regulate the area of critical infrastructure of State importance, i.e. national critical infrastructures, all bodies and organisations responsible for sectors of particular importance or activity for or in the Slovenian society, will be required to take into account, in their work, the requirements for ensuring the continuous operation of critical infrastructure, that is to say, the aspect of the protection of critical infrastructure. All authorities and organisations in the field of critical infrastructure will be required to respect the same general starting points and guidelines. Appropriate relations will be established between authorities, critical infrastructure organisations, in particular in terms of sharing their competences, responsibilities and tasks in the protection of critical infrastructure. The individual sectors of critical infrastructure will be required to complement regulatory regulation or even regulatory regulation if it does not yet exist in terms of the protection of critical infrastructure. All of these will contribute to increasing the level of resilience of Slovenian society to modern security threats and risks. The amendments adopted by the Defence Committee as a working mother follow the proposal of the Legal and Legislative Service and, according to our assessment, improve the proposal of the law. I also believe that the proposed amendment of the coalition parties and the content of the same amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party relating to the integration of facilities providing systemic resilience and redundancies follow the objectives of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of the Critical Infrastructure Act, conditions will be created for the work to be started in this area to continue and to achieve such a level of protection of critical infrastructure in the country with which the resilience of Slovenian society to modern security threats will be increased. As a result, this also means greater security for our citizens and citizens, so I propose that you support the critical infrastructure law. At the same time, Mr Vice-President, given that the amendments have been tabled in less than a dozen articles of the bill, I propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jan Mahnic, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Today we are quite fast, the agenda items run counter to expectations, and probably the minister was in a hurry to come to Parliament, and I hope this is the reason for your breathlessness and not something else. At its 19th meeting, on 1 December 2017, the Defence Committee considered the draft Law on Critical Infrastructure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and published on the websites of the National Assembly. Amendments to the coalition and to the Levitical groups were tabled within the deadline. The introductory explanation was given on behalf of the applicant by the Minister of Defence, Andrej Katič, who said that the Government adopted the definition of critical infrastructure of State importance in 2010 and that the draft law now systematically regulates the identification and determination of critical infrastructure of the Republic of Slovenia and the protection of that infrastructure and covers all activities contributing to the continuity and integrity of its operation. The basic purpose of the proposed law is to determine the continuous functioning of critical infrastructure. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was presented by Mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek. The SPS examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and made comments of a legal system nature and specific comments to the individual article of the bill. In view of the coalition amendments tabled, these proposals were then also taken into account. The National Council of Law supports, and the Commission received all relevant information and clarifications as it expected in the course of the proposal. In the debate, Commissioner Miha Kordiš said that the area of critical infrastructure was already regulated by sub-legal acts, but so far we had no comprehensive and systematic arrangements for this area. The Government now regulates this area by means of the proposed law, and it has been disturbed by the fact that the Bank of Slovenia is not subject to critical infrastructure within this law. It believes that Banka Slovenije in this way has an extraterritorial status as a country in the country. A member of the SMC committee, Marko Ferruga, praised the Ministry of Defence's efforts, which have placed a great burden on us in the drafting of the proposed law. He pointed out that the issue of the proposal was complex as it included a large number of vertical and horizontal levels and the number of documents, with the adoption of that proposal of the law, it was expected that action would be rapid, effective and operational if needed. The Committee adopted the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 13, 14, 16, 17, 20, 21, 24, 29 and 31 but did not adopt the amendment of the Levic Group to Article 22. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted and which you have also received by Members, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The Critical Infrastructure Act speaks more or less of the technical determination of critical infrastructure and its protection. In Levika, he would not be opposed if he did not re-establish and confirm the status of Banka Slovenije as a country not subject to any supervision of the European Central Bank, an institution whose only concern is the welfare of the current way of controlling Europe. Banka Slovenije has some kind of extraterritorial status with us as a country in the country. This is shown in the following facts. It is persistently opposed to the possibility of its operation being audited by the Court of Auditors, even though Banka Slovenije is an institution that owns 100 % of the country [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, thank you, if I may continue after we finally adopted the amendment of the Banka Slovenije Act at the meeting of the National Assembly in September, it submitted an application for constitutional review to the Constitutional Court. [[…]] In addition, with the support of the management of the European Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia is attempting to obstruct a police investigation into the rehabilitation of banks or investigations of the National Investigation Office. Banka Slovenije, an institution with 100 % public ownership, sets itself the level of wages and sets itself an internal rule, including the basis for the level of wages and sets itself an internal rule, including the basis for the discharge of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, even though he is a staff member of that State. We object to such status in the left hand side. We oppose him because the institution in 100% of the state's property cannot have the power as a state in the country and write the rules itself. Secondly, we oppose it because such a way of protecting the Bank of Slovenia prevents democratic control of monetary policy, one of the key levers of the country's economic policy. Among other things, monetary policy decides whether we will put price stability first, as it is now doing, or whether we will put the employment of the population first, as is done by all other central banks around the world, except for the European and, of course, its members. Although Banka Slovenije is recognized as part of critical infrastructure, the provisions of this law are not applicable to the critical infrastructure law we are adopting today. This, as I have said, reaffirms its independence and we are opposed to it in Levica, so we cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague, colleague! I am particularly pleased to present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre on the Proposal for a Law on Critical Infrastructure prepared by the Government with a view to systematically regulating and determining the critical infrastructure of the Republic of Slovenia and defining how to protect it. To date, this area has only been regulated by government conclusions and normative documents within individual critical infrastructure sectors. However, the adoption of the law sets out in one place the relations between the different authorities and the actors responsible for the operation of critical infrastructure and seeks to simplify the approach and principles of their operation. In the SMC Group we see the adoption of the law as the first step in achieving the objective of protecting critical infrastructure of national importance for the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, the period of six or nine months after the entry into force of this Act, in which the Government will designate the operator of sectors and competent authorities and draw up a list of critical infrastructures. Under the terms of critical infrastructure of national importance, which is quite abstract for non-experts in this area, we understand all those capacities and services that are crucial for the country. In the event of their destruction, non-action, interruptions or disruptions in their operation, this could also have serious consequences for national and human security, our economy, vital social functions and for our well-being. In the SMC Group, we expect the Government to carefully prepare the exact criteria and final list of such infrastructure, so that certain infrastructure reflects the needs and protects the key interests of our country and people. In determining and protecting critical infrastructures, the role of the Ministry of Defence in the first place is guiding, but as such indispensable. The proposal for a law divides responsibility for the protection of critical infrastructure into a large number of actors at a number of levels, including many planning documents and a set of measures according to the specific situation. In view of this, we have high expectations for the Ministry of Defence as an expert and custodian of the area and the national contact point for the protection of European critical infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia to guide the further development of the area in the direction of coordination and action and to ensure the best possible communication between all organisations and bodies. By drawing a parallel to the area of protection against natural and other disasters, it turns out that the real coherence of all stakeholders is crucial for preventing and responding to such events, the consequences of non-synchronous and partial operation can also be very severe. In our parliamentary group, we will unitedly support the bill's proposal in anticipation of its early entry into force and effective implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Vice President, once again. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The law that we have before us, which we have dealt with in the Committee on Defence, is, in some ways, just a start, we can say, a pressing issue and a subject that, unfortunately, we are getting late at the end of our term of office. I recall, as well as other members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, that it was on this committee that we had several discussions at closed meetings that critical infrastructure should be defined and, last but not least, the necessary measures should be prepared. Now it's just the beginning. The government will have to do a lot more on the basis of this law in order to first define the overall critical infrastructure and then take measures in other areas in order to be able to establish a system of effective protection of critical infrastructure. I believe that Article 19 states that continuous action must be ensured. These are the elements of hybrid warfare that we have witnessed – to remind us of the hacking attack two weeks ago on one of Slovenia's companies, where about 4,000 600 bitcoins were stolen, about 57 million euros, in short, a cyber attack, one of the elements of hybrid warfare – can also be made of various elements of critical infrastructure. I think that a few months ago, at a closed session of the Defence Committee, we were looking at a cyber attack that took place in several countries around the world, and at that time a cyber attack on the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana was successfully prevented. Surely, UKC is part of critical infrastructure and we can argue, with the development of technology, that the most frequent attacks on critical infrastructure will certainly be cyber attacks. As far as cybernetics is concerned, in Slovenia light years are behind what today knows how to develop the world not so far away from us. Some European countries, notably members of NATO, which, as Article 5 of this North Atlantic Treaty, also see cyber attacks, are seriously preparing, building defence and their capabilities primarily in the cyber area, while we are still discussing some typical conventional warfare and preparing our forces in this direction. We have never had in this mandate – perhaps on any individual committee, when there have been specific problems, we can say, hacker attacks – some serious debate about what capacity Slovenia has, better said, what it does not have and where we want to go. Here, too, we can say that we only detect hot water. As I am aware, the Director of the Office of the Government for the Protection of Secret Data, General Dobren Bozič, is preparing the law, I hope that he will come before the Members in this mandate. But effectively providing some cyber defence on the fact that the whole Owl, with the exception of the janitor, the sentence, I don't know where we came from in this country, that at a time when cyber attacks become everyday, we are just talking about how this area of cybernetics, in particular cybernetic defences, will be brought into the framework of law. Not to mention the capabilities we have or, rather, do not have. It takes time — this time we have missed — money is needed — money is spent in other sectors, and it does not help us to adopt a critical infrastructure law if we do not then take the necessary steps in the direction of actually protecting this critical infrastructure not only on paper but also in real life. Nevertheless, we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u110	Mr Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! We have before us the proposal for a law on critical infrastructure, the fundamental purpose of which is to ensure the continued operation of critical infrastructure. If we just mention two resounding cases in the coming year, such as the cyber attack and fire in Kemis, we quickly see how urgently we need a normative legal act that systematically regulates the area of national critical infrastructure. The law sets out more clearly the responsibility and management of crisis situations, regulates the tasks of authorities and self-organises in the field of critical infrastructure. The definition of critical infrastructure itself clearly states that the failure to operate these capacities and services would cause great harm to national security, the economy, fundamental social functions, health, safety and protection, and social well-being. This is therefore an infrastructure related to national security. Disruption or destruction could have serious consequences. Inaction would thus cause great social damage and possibly also a crisis situation. It is precisely in this limited operation of critical infrastructure that we are aware of how vulnerable we are, as the normal functioning of the country itself is at risk and as a result the daily course of life of every citizen. From the above, we see that this proposal is for a law to defend against modern security threats and risks. However, once the critical infrastructure protection planning is accurately established for operators, the transfer of responsibility, the clear case of which is the fire already mentioned in Kemis, ceases to be carried out. We should all be in the interest of keeping national infrastructures safe and, therefore, in the Desus Group, we will, of course, support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, thank you very much for having succeeded in this meeting in due course, despite the fact that we are ahead of schedule in the National Assembly. I believe that, at this point, it is more important than the very treatment of this law in order to ensure the uninterrupted life in all parts of our country, where yesterday's, as well as part of today's weather conditions, has cut off our residents and residents from logistics connections, electricity, and water supplies. Therefore, once again, please also transfer our greetings to the National Civil Protection Staff in the hope that what is most important from the point of view of the State will be the protection of citizens and citizens, to the fullest extent possible. It may be, unfortunately, but today is one of the more picturesque when adopting the critical infrastructure law of state importance, just from the point of view, because it demonstrates why what is self-evident is far from being forgotten, but there is something that we need to pay particular attention to. Critical infrastructures, such as logistics connections, ICT, electricity and energy networks, are, despite the fact that most of the time in our lives they work completely smoothly, constantly at risk of being transformed from a platform that enables the modern life of today's society into a platform that is the basis for either natural or even human disaster. It is therefore a fundamental task for the State to prevent any of these scenarios in its full capacity. However, if scenarios that may be more or less catastrophic occur, it must be fully prepared to respond to these situations. What does this mean in reality, the most picturesque, for example, is the case of the acorns, when, although briefly, a small part of our country has lost electricity for more than a week. If we had to borrow electricity from neighbouring countries in that situation and allow our citizens and citizens to supply drinking water, it probably should never have happened again. It is therefore important that we deal today with a law whose primary purpose is to ensure the smooth functioning of critical infrastructure of national importance, in particular the regulation of the tasks of the authorities and organisations operating in this area, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the institutions of individual sectors of critical infrastructure, managers, ministries responsible for each sector, and, lastly, the National Critical Management Centre. Under this law, as well as logically, the highest national authority that defines and directs and coordinates critical infrastructure policy, managers and owners, which is important and critical infrastructures are the first responsible and responsible for ensuring the continued operation of critical infrastructure, irrespective of the ownership structure of critical infrastructure. The law will, of course, be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. And once again in this place, let me thank all those who are all night and who are likely to be concerned in the coming days that life will be restored as soon as possible to the usual tracks where yesterday's grip interrupted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u114	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon. The 21st century is changing dramatically. If we look specifically at what is happening in the field of warfare, then we can see that practical warfare in the 21st century is moving to cyber space. Even NATO recognized cyberspace as one of the areas of importance years ago and therefore identified it as an area of operation. The battles of the 21st century will, of course, take place in cyberspace, perhaps not even with tanks, with guns and guns, but mainly with the Internet. Let's look at the past. Remember Estonia in 2007. Russia's cyber attacks on Estonia and there have been total collapse of key systems of the country, from public administration, the health system, the banking system for 14 days. The country was practically impressed for 14 days without Russia using one rifle, one cannon, or one tank invasion. Consider the case in 2014 in Ukraine. In the middle of the cold winter, there was a cyber attack on one of Ukraine’s power plants, and during the harsh winter, about 200,000 people lost their energy. Then we know Israel's example of how she used a sophisticated cyber weapon, which was on a small key that one of the Iranian nuclear scientists picked up in the parking lot, put it in his computer out of curiosity, and this program, which was loaded on this key, prevented Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Consider the second example of China. China has practically used cyberspace intensively for economic espionage over the past ten years. If in the past they have developed some semi-products, simple products, today they are developing modern technology with stolen technology. Ask yourself what is the difference between Samsung and Huawei. You will practically find that there is no difference, except that the manufacturer is different and that the price is different. In Slovenia, we felt these cyber threats and all these cyberspace-related science fiction happening out there somewhere far from us, which does not even concern us, but in recent years Slovenia has systematically become the target of cyber attacks. One such concrete one that caused economic damage there is an attack on Revoz. When he practically shut down the company's operation for a few days and thereby caused tremendous damage to the company. It is only in these last months or, if you like, in the year that Slovenia has also fallen. After action began in the European Union, including in NATO, the country began to pay more attention to the cyberspace and after the attacks in Slovenia took place. When the Bureau of Secret Information took over General Christmas, things began to move in this area. There is now legislation that we will have at least a legal basis so that we can centralise cyber defence in one place, which is good. Today, however, we have before us the Critical Infrastructure Act, which in some ways sets out the systemic critical infrastructures of state importance with one goal, and this is, in due time, to detect and prevent any security threat or risk to national security, the economy and other key social functions. So today we are simply setting the legal framework for Slovenia to respond adequately in the 21st century during many cyber threats. Therefore, of course, New Slovenia will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the amendments tabled of 1. 12. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD and SDS. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go, Mr. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I think this topic is extremely important, because in some ways the future of Slovenia will also be important. As I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, today we are laying only the basic legal foundations for the effective organisation of cyber defence, but to be operationally established, and there is still a long way to go. Today, among NATO members, 16 countries have offensive opportunities in the field of cybernetics. Today in Slovenia we are just talking about defensive capabilities, that is, about defence capabilities. So we're already a long way behind other countries. Unfortunately, we have also come into a situation where concrete experience with various blackmail viruses has had to force us to take action in this area. It seems important to me that the state does everything in its power, but above all it prescribes protocols for action, what someone is obliged to do in the event of an attack on critical infrastructure. I told you the 2007 Estonian case. This is a completely comparable country for us, and in this particular case you can see what happens to you if you are hit by some kind of world power, such as Russia, which also has offensive capabilities. And if we don't prepare for this kind of thing, cyber attacks on us, and that's the most frightening thing that cyber attacks can do us even more harm than conventional weapons. Imagine what would have happened in Slovenia if we had been electro-distributed, what would have happened if we had been attacked by the Krška nuclear power plant and could have been listed. I don't want to scare you, but I want to say that in today's wild, sometimes even a strange world, there are tools, knowledge when you can't argue, if you want terrorists, they also use such activities. It is therefore the duty of the State to do everything in its power. One thing that appears to be problematic in this area is that we need people who are highly qualified to deal with such threats. Informatics, people who are good at math, physics, engineering and more. The problem that the state and state institutions are facing so far is that these highly qualified people are simply hard to pay to come into the public administration system because they have much better offers on the market, if you want to be in the economy. Today, some programmers, computer scientists can easily get a job in the economy, but of course the state needs them to help protect its cyber infrastructure, critical infrastructure and, above all, the functioning of the country in the event of cyber attacks. In the past, this country has already faced completely with, say, banal administrative complications. When the Slovenian Armed Forces, at least as a contractual reserve, wanted to employ some cybernetic computerist, the first obstacle to employment was that this individual did not serve military service and then fell away as a potential opportunity for the Slovenian Army to serve at least as a reserve. I know this thing is banal, but we're dealing with this kind of banal stuff now that we're setting up a cyber defense when we're building it from the bottom up. In other countries that are very advanced in this area, these problems have already been faced in the past, but they have been addressed in a smart way, I will say, using a healthy farm of intelligence. For example, for cooperation, or that you may be a member of an armed force, or an army around the world, it is most likely necessary and normal for you to conduct at least some minimum military training. But when the armies around the world wanted to acquire computer scientists in their own kind, it was one of the fundamental problems and they came to abandon such training for such personnel because they are completely useless and ineffective for such a type of people who focus or face working in the field of cyber threats and security. In short, Slovenia will now have to remove bureaucratic obstacles over all these stages, remove banal issues that prevent us from getting highly qualified people, and, above all, establish a system to attract people from outside, from universities and to create an environment where the country, university and the economy can effectively participate. I am confident that these cyber threats will not allow the country itself to face and that an environment in which all these elements can participate will urgently need to be established. I think the economy has an interest in participating in such matters, too, because look at Revoz's examples of what happened. They were carrying direct concrete damage. Here we are placed in circumstances where both the state and the economy have an interest in doing something to make things better and to avoid such attacks. There is some experience in the economy, and in particular the banking system, due to electronic banking, already has some experience in this area. Other areas in the economy have experience in protecting their infrastructure, and all these matters should be linked and from here on in building our defence. I only hope that we will be effective at this and that the results will be good. Unfortunately, we are at the beginning of this moment, and therefore certainly my statement, when I once said that, as far as cyber defence is concerned, we are naked and bare, is not out of the vine, but is based on real facts. The good thing about today’s law is that things are moving forward and that we have stopped squeezing sand into our heads, as if these things do not concern us that these things are of no importance to us. And I will personally support this law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Mr. Mahnic, Jean-Mahnič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported. It is practically the same as the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, adding critical infrastructures to sites that provide systemic resilience and redundancy. It is also about energy being an important part of critical infrastructure, and it is right that this concept is also defined in the third article of the law by a new addition. Just in case, as we have also mentioned in the explanatory statement, if there are problems in this area, only the Termoelectrica Brestanica can ensure such action to prevent up to €10 million in damage, and I am pleased that this amendment will be supported. What is essential is what I have already said in my position and what is well explained by my colleague Tonin, who personally engages in this area, particularly in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Just yesterday, it is no secret now, given that it was already on TV, we were members of the parliamentary committee to oversee the intelligence and security services in Owl, and one of the talks was also a current sentence. The Director said well, I think it's not a secret to say that there are problems in the recruitment of personnel; the personnel that are familiar with cybernetics, the personnel that are excellent in the computer field. Why? Because of the wage system in the public sector! Because someone who comes from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and Computer Science, where they are top experts, you just can't stimulate enough to come to the Owl for what I know, 25th to somewhere in the 30th pay grade, if you say Styerac goes to neighbouring Austria, gets three times, four times that. Such experts today in the world are open doors in all areas where enormous amounts are going around and someone who can work for a few thousand euros abroad will simply not be attracted to work in the Sovo for 800 to 200 euros. Apparently, also Minister Koprivnikar is not aware of this when he spoke yesterday at 24 hours yesterday about how the country invested in such a person through the education process of EUR 300,000 and then went abroad and instead of somehow returning this education to the country by hiring here to pay taxes here, contributions so that the country, in particular its cash register, would have some of it, of course it pays abroad. This is why young people leave, and professional staff do not stay in Slovenia, but if, of course, they go to private businesses, where they have significantly better conditions for work and where they also get their education, especially practical knowledge – which is quite relevant in cybernetics or in the field of computer science – they get more than in the state administration. We can adopt a hundred more laws, we can't even know how many offices in the cyber area to fight this kind of crime, but unfortunately we're still far from that, the question of whether we'll ever be at a point where we can build some offensive cybernetics, we haven't even made defensive ones. But if it doesn't come to people who are willing to do something in this area, we'll pay enough in the government to get there in their interest – because, you know, for example, for those who feel a little more patriotic, it's certainly pride to work in an intelligence agency. But with that pride, you cannot pay the bills, you cannot pay the necessities of life, you cannot afford what you can afford if you work for a company where you cash your knowledge for two, three, or more, in foreign lands. In short, when we are aware that we need these people and that we can only get them in such a way as to properly pay them for their work, then we will also be able to put into practice what we are now accepting in the National Assembly and what we will certainly still be doing. But until we change that, the hacker attacks will line up. Estonia is now one of the most clear examples in Europe. As I was monitoring foreign media, they were talking about this hacker attack where bitcoins were stolen, but it's a private company. But I can't imagine what would happen if someone actually threw down the Clinical Center, an electrical network, any element, any object of critical infrastructure that the Government will define under this law, of course, could be a cyber attack. Without proper defence, especially without people who know the right defence and who are able to set up, there is no law that helps us. I expect that these debates will also open up and find solutions to how to get experts, how to get young people in the field of electrical engineering and computer science, and of course other technical professions that will then be able to do in practice what we want to do with the legislation. Because the foundation is now being laid, unfortunately, very late, but there will be a serious operational work to be done, and I fear that, under such conditions and with such a set as we have now, we will not be able to arrange it. That is how we need to think about it, and even as soon as possible, even though those who have actually put something in this area – at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union, then many times talk about it – will be difficult to reach in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u119	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u120	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, let me say that I will support the amendment to Article 3 of the Law, because it is an important amendment to Article 3, which says that the critical infrastructure sectors of each of the substantively rounded whole operation of critical infrastructure, including facilities that provide systemic resilience and regularity. The predecessor, Mr Mahnic, spoke about this amendment and also made a concrete case, but it is not just one critical infrastructure that has also been mentioned. We need to take it more broadly, because we know that the electricity system represents only one whole, and within this whole, critical infrastructures have a vital, essential role to play in relation to other sectors, to information, communication, transport connections and so on. Because what damage we can imagine, in some part, we have witnessed when it happened to the pharynx, but yet it was only one part of our country, and now we imagine if there is a systemic attack or a breach of our critical infrastructure system, especially if it comes to an electricity system. I think it is clear here that really in the next steps it is necessary to define this critical infrastructure very carefully, to describe it, and then also in all the departments, and in those environments where this infrastructure is located, not only should we think about physical infrastructure, but we should think about services, the system. These are even more important than an object itself — if one thinks only about an object. And there's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. We must not just look at the public sector or the state infrastructure here, but we must take the whole, including the private sector, into account. If we look at anything, let's leave a few days ago there was an invasion or a place of bitcoins worth around €57 million, it's a private company, but only the results of the investigation will show what was in the background, it could have been something else. That is how we must take the whole here and also when Mr Tonin – otherwise he did not talk about the amendment, but he spoke more generally, he stopped quite a bit on cyber threats. It is true that these things are very connected and I think we must take this seriously now in the next steps – I believe that the last case has given us much thought – that so far it has not happened [[…]] Well, the law is before us, I am glad that we are all thinking in the same direction that we do not differ in some essential things, and I think that we can also count on, in the next steps, to take this serious and final aim of really doing such a protection and security system that will minimize any attempt at attacking this critical infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Colleagues, colleagues, I find no, so I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in 45 minutes according to the timing of the assembly, that is, at 13.50. I hereby end the 16th item of the agenda, as well as the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed by the vote, as already stated, at 13.50. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u122	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 4, 5, 17, 11, 12, 16 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Minimum Wage by Short Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Minimum Wages Act is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist group Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u123	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Members of the Left Group will, of course, vote against such a decision. Our law is technically and substantively appropriate for further consideration, and we have said this both at the home work body and at the plenary session of the National Assembly. What do we propose with this law? We suggest that the minimum is paid at 1. 1. 2019 increases to €700 to be made from 1. 1. 2020 is starting to apply a formula whereby minimum wages should be at least 20% higher than the national minimum cost of living calculated at the current calculation of EUR 736 and we propose that the minimum wage should be equal to the basic salary. Why are we suggesting this? Firstly, because, after years of economic growth, it is time for prosperity to reach people, in our proposal, there would be less than €120,000 in the public and private sectors that currently have salaries. See, for them the situation does not improve despite economic growth, and only politics can help these people to break through by a better tomorrow. Secondly, this proposal would eliminate poverty among employees. We know that each of those 300,000 people who live below the poverty line, which every fifth regularly employs, is true to work 8 hours a day and cannot survive from his work. This is because our minimum wage is fixed at minimum cost of living, and we say that whoever works 8 hours a day has to get at least a little more, we propose 20% more. Third; the question is justice. Now we have in most collective agreements in the country of basic wages starting below 400 euros, and then people are only paying a variety of allowances to date a statutory minimum wage. We propose that the minimum becomes basic wages and that overtime, holiday work, hard work and other reasons for paying the allowances are paid for this minimum wage, not that they are conditioned. Can the economy afford that? We have done a calculation: by 1%, all the labour costs that were last year would increase and by 4% would be reduced by year. This is the direct financial impact of our proposal and we do not see any reason for it to be inappropriate for further consideration. Of course we'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u124	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? An explanation in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, chairman. One point among the reasons why I will support the continuation of consideration of the Minimum Wage Act is the following. In most industries, we have collective agreements that place basic wages below minimum wage levels. Even in those where workers have the best care for their standard, and these metal industries, they are the first wage classes below the minimum wage. What does that mean? This means that people who work 8 hours a day and 40 hours a week do not receive a minimum wage for their work, but the amount they receive from the work title is below the minimum minimum wage level. Only with additions do they achieve this level. If these are some supplements that are included in the definition of minimum wage, they will receive a lower salary than those above the minimum, because they are simply not eligible for these supplements effectively. And that's wrong, it's at odds with fundamental social justice. Two people do the same thing, they both get the extras, they know each month in the account, they don't know each other. Therefore, our proposal to raise the minimum wage is part of Enka's long-standing demand. So the lowest basic salary can be at least as much as the minimum wage. Whatever it is, it's unworthy, it's unworthy, and it's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u126	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it myself. I listened very carefully to the debate or the position why you would vote for some “family” that did not even appear at this point, and of course from these views it was because you had some crazy problem with it. All was full of some words dignity, dignity, dignity, dignity, dignity Today you have ruined my word in half an hour for the rest of my life. [[…]] Personally, I think that the minimum wage in Slovenia should be at least EUR 800, personally I also think that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia should say this: Wait, Levica! 700 euros is too little, it has to be 800 euros. Some of you have been in politics a lot longer than I have. Some are studying in Germany, and so on, but apparently no one has tricked you into looking at the revenue side of public cash registers. The minimum wage, as laid down, and this shift in the minimum wage will not yet eliminate the fact that we are unfortunately working in future poor pensioners. And what kind of client representing this should be talking a lot about it. Of course, I would like to say, as some other irresponsible politician, that I would like to make the minimum wage a jure. Of course I'd like that. Who doesn't want to? But this country and country you put the second in a quarter of a century in your friendly-stolen feudal form where you are. Now, recently, I have just received information about how much money is being paid to the government's advisors – in this mandate. What kind of advice? With these funds, we could raise the minimum wage for all in the public sector and the state administration to these 700s, such as our proposal. Somehow you're against it; you're saying there's no dialogue. The dialogue isn't because you're real, so I'm going to tell the slaves of our so-called economists who, unlike Kordish, I find it hard to call capitalists because they're not, because they're sagesters who are [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u128	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you, President. It's two things that are on the scale today. I think that most of the arguments today that have tried to defend the majority of the parliamentary groups have been why, of course, they will not support our law and why they will vote for this to be discontinued, that more or less things are not aligned with the social partners and that they could thus jeopardise the competitiveness of the economy. Here's the two things on the scale. On the one hand, 3.2 billion net profits generated by the economic last year increased by 70%. On the other hand, we are talking about 1% of the wage, which would increase there in the ranking of some 120 million. You're putting it on the scale. I don't understand how 1% can threaten the whole economy, the whole competitiveness, but I know what can happen if this law isn't passed or if we don't start talking about how we're going to change the definition of minimum wage and what it should serve. Those who receive a minimum wage today find it difficult to survive in a month if the basic salary is substantially lower than the minimum wage. And all these people are going to jeopardize the competitiveness of the economy, and that's what's on the scale today. Are we prepared to give one piece of this cake to the people who need it, or to leave the situation in the status quo with Flossules such as social dialogue and the continued concern for the competitiveness of the economy? This status quo does not say anything but that such a way is unjust. That's why I'm going to vote against it, because I think these people who make this profit, 70% more than they have in recent years, deserve something back.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u130	Explanation of the vote in its own name Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. I'll tell the coalition, "You'll give it sooner, you'll be cool." You know very well that the Left won't give up. The same has happened in the diet of children living below the poverty threshold, where we listened to various very absurd arguments, but in the end you gave in under pressure from the public and the media. Look, I'm not surprised by the SMC, which is ultimately a party without smell, color and taste, but by the Social Democrats, who by their default should be concerned about social justice, I'm surprised, but even more so by Desus, who is fully aware that the low wages of catastrophically miserable pensions are later in life. Those who work full - time and despite full - time employment cannot pay their basic living expenses and feed their children are — normally — angry. They're angry and frustrated. And then you just finger them, I don't know, the recipient of social assistance, you show them the migrant, you show them the Roma, and they're angry -- and that's how people radicalize. You know, in 1933, the unions were going to, and this data put me at risk, to raise the minimum wage when people lived the same way today, but employers and the government said, "No, we can't. And what happened? In 1937 they gave in, but it was too late, we already had fascism. Today you have a great responsibility [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Nazism, along with fascism, you stepped in, my dear fellow. Shortcut [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I finish? I'm gonna get you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u132	An explanation of the voice in its own name is this. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u133	Yes, and I want you to not correct me and not touch my word. For see, this measure, even if you support our proposal today, will be felt by the employees, the poorest in society, only in 2019 or 2020. [[advertising from the hall]] It'll be too late for a lot of people. So I'm going to vote absolutely against it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u134	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 19. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned item 5 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on intervention measures in the field of the labour market following a reduced procedure. Since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11 12. 2017. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 17. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 60 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 21. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of Article 27 of the Left Party. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes in favour and one against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 17 and 21 of the amended bill. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes in favour and no one is against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 17 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety in the context of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11 12. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 183. If this amendment is adopted, it will become the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2 irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Ionizing radiation, yes, you can see that we haven't done enough with this, and we will have a point which, in the sixteenth one, will be a relatively strange Act on Critical Infrastructure – as it is written, is also nomotechnically problematic – and we have a nuke which is potentially, if anything goes wrong, the biggest threat, but at the same time this nuclear power plant would not be limited by time. [[…]] That this is a problem has been found on the parent’s working body. At that time, there was some political maturity, not just will, but then — I even say to him — he had a little energy rush, he didn't need much, probably. And now the coalition is putting in some kind of amendment that overwhelms it. In this light, then, all that you've been saying or what you're going to say, what I'm going to say is, I'm going to tell you about the critical infrastructure law, some duality. In some serious society, of course, we also need to have serious environmental impact assessments and if we have a nuclear power plant, it is a facility where this is more than necessary; of course, even with the time limit of the operating permit. That's the story. This story goes to our amendment, which, of course, you will overrun. And since you're going to run him over, we're not going to confirm this law, I've already said on behalf of the Left that this is extremely irresponsible. It is extremely irresponsible to hide behind some of the European directives, because you have done a lot of singing about the problem of gas radon, although we still have a few kindergartens to deal with today, but this is just, unfortunately, this. This call will evidently come true in this direction that most Members and Members will become Mira Cerar, or moral theologians. I hope that the next reference in the secular state will be less morally theological. We will vote against this amendment of the coalition. Because, of course, it's a legislative body and because we don't agree to what they teach you when you come into Slovenian politics – don't mind the energy lobby. We also set legislation for energy, not some gentlemen who have 42% higher wages than wages on average are different in Slovenia. In energy there are 42% higher, and they are also paid by my omikales in Maribor on the stand! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u136	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups under number 1 has been adopted, the amendment of the Left Group has become irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the State Assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 183 of the amended law. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 5. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 11th item of the agenda. We continue the 12th item of the agenda – second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Motor Vehicles, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11 12. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 30. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u137	Each of us has probably already bought a used car and turning the counters back is number one for car dealers in Slovenia. I don't think it's possible to buy a car today from Slovenian drug dealers that wouldn't have a rewinded counter. If you compare the situation in Slovenia and, for example, in a slightly more regulated Germany, they will be able to tell you that the rotation of the counters there is fear and trembling because the penalty for each overturned kilometer is one euro. But with us, such intermediaries and drug dealers are cheerfully flourishing, even threatening to write the state of the miles in a purchase contract, thus preventing them from defrauding the next customer. My father recently bought a car that was 65,000 miles [180 thousand km] on the counter. When he took him to the service, and when they put him on the computer, the computer found that he had had this car for over half a million miles. And it seems to me that we, as decision makers and as legislators, are obliged to do something to combat this kind of crime. I don't think we need to look at the ground, I don't think we need to know, but these things need to be punished more severely, and with this amendment we're proposing in New Slovenia, we're just going to tighten things up to this point. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u138	May I have some peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u139	Obviously, this is a very interesting topic, it's all a bit of a turn-on because you've obviously all faced similar problems, but if the state doesn't firmly intervene in this thing, then the dealers will continue, I apologize to the expression, to the citizens and the citizens. I am convinced that the system should be arranged in such a vehicle that has its counters reversed and that the counters have been reversed, they could not even register, and they punished the seller – of course. The one that's been spinning back for miles. We can watch the table, we can move around, but I'm sure this amendment is at least trying to fight this kind of practice. I hope and wish that some of the Western principles will also be transferred to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u140	On behalf of the MP? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, if I understand correctly, for Mr Tonin's father. I've seen something like this in a car myself. But then I was glad that this car had a Tone Pavček before, so I was happy to ride with it. But I have some other problems. I would not like all Slovenian practices to be transferred to Slovenia, for example, Volkswagen fraud. If they are already teaching the right in Germany, look at the revenue side of the budget, look at the ownership of banks in Germany, and if I go back to the point, look at public passenger traffic. You know, if we're talking about pensions, if we're talking about minimum wages, for three-quarters of people in Slovenia there's a car too expensive, but it's a necessary cost. We should start dealing with this — public passenger traffic! In the mid-1980s, Switzerland decided when GIS began to develop, no one would have more than half an hour to the train station, except for a few people on which Alma was used to optimize passenger traffic. This composition of the National Assembly is a little too “felt” and you wouldn't be insulting, you're a little too crazy about cars. We should be moving away from this. I said I was expecting a government president and a country to say: I am going for two mandates in this and in the middle of my second term, half the cars sold in Slovenia will be sold today. That's how it's supposed to start. Yeah, you just sigh. That's how you should start looking at it. In Estonia – we have been in Tallinn, the capital of Estonia – since 2013, if memory doesn't bother me, they don't pay for public passenger transport, yet they do plus for this public passenger traffic. These are the things we should be dealing with. This is what New Slovenia is now generously proposing from the experience of a father, after all, it is a policy to look around a little bit, and on behalf of the Left and personally I think that we should settle ourselves at the level of a sub-law. You know, because I have such stories to extend each session for three more days, and today we will finish it at two, Mr President of the National Assembly, instead of working on Thursday. We don't all live around the corner of Parliament. It is also a kind of relationship to people and to movement in time and space and in traffic. All of this will have to be done, you know, by the ears, and you'll have to get out of your own mud and seriously start dealing with a transport policy that you're not dealing with. This also shows that when the government swears, the BMW is already parked there, and because of the bend you drive to the government, even though you could walk there. These are the themes for the next composition of the temple of democracy, as you like to call it. We'll hold on to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u142	We are voting on an amendment, which is called an article that speaks of conditions for registration, if perhaps we do not know. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Regardless of who buys the car, the one who buys the used car in our country actually risks buying real miles or not buying real miles. Who in this country today can guarantee that when you buy a used car, the miles are real and that the matter is fair? I don't think he's practically gone. And since other countries know the practice of being consistent in controlling such speculative and exploitative and ugly weights of those who cannot afford a new car, I find it extremely inappropriate. That is why we have also tabled this amendment in New Slovenia, which speaks, what procedures and who will be responsible for this. To prevent such exploitation of those people who cannot buy a new car, these are socially weak. That's why I've been thinking, Comrade Duck, that you, however, will still be like a party on the social side, but still protect them in this area that people will also have some security in this area. Let me also say, indeed, public transport in Slovenia is a disaster! Three hours to Ptuj from Ljubljana, 15 euros in one direction. When is this gonna change? But still, people who don't have money for new cars have to be protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u144	I mean, now this is where the debate got heated, not even about the amendment, but about all the things about it. Could you please stop saying whether or not you will support this amendment if it is still [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] I'm adjourning the session. It's expected if it's 15 minutes, at 2.45 p.m. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u145	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u146	Mr President of the National Assembly, I think your warnings about the explanations of vote at our amendment were incorrect because, I think, outside the context, you have warned that what the debaters are saying is not related to the amendment, and it is still connected because this amendment we have tabled is about the conditions for registration. Among other things, we added a point that tells us that if it is found that the car has turned kilometers back, it cannot be registered. Why this is important — because you have a whole range of drug dealers, such as Western Europeans, who buy cars that have a large number of miles, over half a million, they bring them to Slovenia, they roll the counter back, they register and then they sell it. This provision, which we propose, would make it impossible for these dealers to register and resell such cars at all. Therefore, all the debates, the President of the National Assembly, which have today turned around about this, are still quite meaningful and related to this amendment. Dear President of the National Assembly, my procedural proposal is that you allow Members and Members, when they explain their vote, to also touch the contents of the amendment, and that is exactly what the content of the amendment is.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u147	I will quote you quite nicely, you said, “all debates”, and we are at the point of explanation of vote. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Of course I won't argue, I'll explain my voice. I will abstain in this vote. Why? Because, as I have already said, I personally think, and even in Levica, we believe that this is a matter that should be regulated at a sub-legislative level. Is that a new problem? No. Probably every one of us, if he hasn't experienced it himself, knows someone who's experienced it. For the past two years, this should have been given to three of our quotas by a government official at the department ministry, which, as you would like to say, even at the youngest party near Levica, from our quotas there; I could have mentioned specific names, but I will not. The Left often manifests a lack of social or socialism, but, you know, that's essentially the problem, because people don't look beyond the captivity we're in. In Brno we solved this: the city bought some combined vans so that the disabled could also come up on the trolleys. Those who can't afford a new car and hard-to-use have called and said, but then they should be there. We live in the 21st century – Member in chair 90, whether we are digital or not – the program considers this to be the most environmentally effective, and gets back a text or a call to and where it is picked up. This is how we want to get rid of this in the future. This is the way we view the traffic problem, but of course light years are far from the prevailing view of it. That's why I think it's a valuable populism, and that's why I'm going to be here. However, I hope that we will also move in this direction in different ways towards transport. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u149	Is there any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Some of you are members of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, which is the parent working body where we have dealt with this, is exactly the same as the amendment of New Slovenia. At that time and today, I have said in my position that the Ministry of Infrastructure is preparing some solutions in this regard. The solution is aimed at entering the data on the status of the counter transferred kilometres from the purchase contract into the record of the certificates of conformity issued from this record in the register of registered vehicles and from this record to the eGovernment portal where all citizens with the so-called VIN number that you all have there at the windshield or elsewhere could check the status of the transported kilometres. The Ministry of Infrastructure – the Secretary of State is nodding – will prepare this solution early next year. Now two other things about Western principles. [[…]] Most vehicles are imported from Italy, Germany, Belgium, little less from Austria and other countries because of the price, as well as because of the kilometres. In most cases, high-priority brands are imported because these cars are comparatively much cheaper than ours. This is about, I will not mention brands, you know which ones, and even now, citizens or those who are involved in the import of cars can communicate the VIN number and you can usually check the exact state of the miles through the official service network in Slovenia, and I recommend to all citizens, of course, that used vehicles are bought by authorised traders who provide guarantees for transported kilometres. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u151	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u152	I will vote in favour of the amendment because this amendment makes it impossible for vehicle dealers to register vehicles that have their cars spinning back miles. The difference between our amendment and the Government's or the Ministry's proposal is that citizens will be able to look at the state of the kilometres, of course, and it will be possible to do so, and that registration of such vehicles will still not be prevented, and they will still be able to resell such vehicles. Just drive yourself to Celje. When you turn off the highway and head towards the center of Celje, you have a whole bunch of these kind of drug dealers on your right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u153	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 87. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats Group, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u154	This amendment removes bureaucracy. The current arrangement was such that if you bought a new car — those who could afford it — they bought it — and in the first few years you do not need a technical checkup. Therefore, the authorised service providers, those who have worked for you, have also had the possibility that you have only extended their registration. Now the government has come up with a solution that the extension of registration will no longer be possible for authorised repairers, but you will have to, although you do not have to do a technical review in the first years, take your car to a technical inspection and extend registration there. I think we all understand here and we know that this is a classic lobbyist article that someone has brought in through a coalition because they're going to do technical checks in this way. Because, of course, now the authorised repairmen have taken part of the business away from the technical controllers because someone who has a new car may have extended the registration when they made the service. So you've taken the car to the service and at the same time extended the registration, now this government coalition will make it much more complicated, and obviously, at the conclusion or conclusions of this coalition, there are now such and different lobbyist articles coming in, of course, that will provide some great profits. Let someone explain to me if he knows what it's like to see things go all the way down here, and that an individual can't do the same with a technical repairman, that is to say with a car repairman to extend registration. If anyone understands that, I just don't, and like I said, I see it as a lobbyist article. That is why New Slovenia has proposed an amendment proposing that the matter should be put into its original state. So where you take your car to the service, you can also extend your registration. I think it's more than an understandable amendment debirocratizing what you've proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u155	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you very much, President. It is the fact that those authorised organisations that are representatives of certain manufacturers in Slovenia can do so. So far, a number of these organisations, around 10 which had this mandate, had to prepare a special space, a panel with glass, then a vault, of course, for the plates and everything necessary for these documents, so that they could also extend these registrations. At the same time, when the service was made or the owner brought the car, when his registration expired, just prior to that, the service and this trader, authorized, extended his registration. With this law, it's overturned. Thus, it is a damage to all these authorised repairers, because this space will no longer be needed and this activity, someone will come to service the car to the authorised service and then have to go to the administrative unit or to the technical inspection where the technical checks are carried out in order to extend the registration. Tell me if that makes sense. It is probably a purely lobbyist law in this work that those who perform technical checks will also know who have primate in Slovenia want to make it their own, just like for mopeds. With this amendment, we are putting it into its original state, it is only those who have so far had powers and those who are authorised services and representatives for certain car companies. Not for anyone who can extend the registration of some screwdriver.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u157	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Besides, I didn't mean to make an explanation, but given what I'm listening to, I think it's best if I take a call. Dear colleagues from New Slovenia, I don't know if you've read this law and the report on this law or not, but what I'm hearing, I have a feeling that you didn't. Let me remind you; what you are exhibiting today has indeed been exposed to the initial proposal that came to the National Assembly, but we have listened to these warnings and have also amended the law accordingly. What you're saying today is not true. In short, we have adopted a provision that those legal persons and independent entrepreneurs who are registered for the vehicle sales activity and have the power to carry out registration procedures on the day of the application of this Act, in order to remain in force. I don't understand what you're talking about. So the law, as it is, has listened to those who have pointed out certain shortcomings in the original proposal and I think it is to be supported. Unfortunately, your amendment does not solve anything because, if you want, we have already rushed to the committee and we have properly corrected those critical points there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-12-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u159	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 16 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[There were 46 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments and second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and 14 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 12th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Draft Law on Critical Infrastructure in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11 12. 2017. Since the amendments made by SMC, Desus and SD and the SDS Group amendments to Article 3 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups and on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against and three against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, 65 were voted in favour and one was opposed. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present and 65 were voted in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. We will vote on the proposals for decisions on the basis of a review of the proposals for decisions by Members and Members for a discussion on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 12 July. 12. 2017, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the first proposal for a decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin in connection with the failure to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, U-I-269/12-24. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present and 18 were voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on a second proposal for a decision. In accordance with the proposal of Member Bojana Dobovška, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of the sale of Nova Ljubljanska banka, d.d. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the third proposal for a decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr Vinko Gorenak on the number of employees in the State and public administration and the necessary resources for their salaries. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth proposal for a decision. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, to the question of Mr Lach's mission concerning the construction and financing of the southern part of the third development axis. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the fifth proposal for a decision. In line with the proposal by Mr Marijan Pojbič, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matej Vraničar Erman on the question of the matter of taxation of cross-border labour migrants by Mr Marijan Pojbič. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the sixth proposal for a decision. In accordance with the proposal of Member Daniel Krivac, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen to Daniel Krivec's question on the legalisation of objects under the new Construction Law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the seventh proposal for a decision. Following a proposal from Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to Ms Tomaž Lisca's question on the Emergency Medical Services Regulation. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the eighth proposal for a decision. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of electricity from France Breznik. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the 9th proposal for a decision. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiša, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to Miha Kordiš's question on payments for long-term care. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and interrupt the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
