ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Violeta Tomić, Irena Grošelj Kosnik, until 3:30 p.m. Franc Trček until 17.30, Matjaž Hanžek from 16.30 to 7.30, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Jože Tanko from 16:00 on, Dr. László Göncz until 15:00, Jernej Vrtovac from 18:00 on, Danilo Anton Ranc to 18:00, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec until 10 a.m. and Matjaž Han from 16:00 to 19:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending the Public Order Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Janji Slug, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much. At its 35th meeting, on 11 May 2017, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law. Following a further explanation by the applicant, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, with regard to Article 1 of the draft law, said that it amends Article 71(2) of the Public Procurement Act and adds a new third paragraph. It should be taken into account that the second paragraph of this Article refers to the first and provides that in cases where this is necessary, the Government shall prescribe for individual procurement items that contracting entities shall take into account social, ethical or environmental aspects in procurement proceedings and the way in which these aspects are incorporated into the subject matter of public procurement. With regard to the amended second paragraph, she pointed out that it was not clear which other conditions the contracting authority was required to prescribe in the cases referred to in the first paragraph. The second paragraph only makes sense if the contracting authority decides on the additional social and environmental conditions, identifies them and lists them in the publication and in the procurement documents. If these conditions are mandatory, they must be laid down by law or provided for in the Government Regulation referred to in the first paragraph. However, the first paragraph of Article 71 already in force is sufficient. In addition, the proposed second amended paragraph of this Article also contains illogicality. The contracting authority must provide for social and environmental conditions, but only if they are listed in the contract notice or documentation relating to the award of the contract. This means that the contracting authority’s obligation does not apply if these conditions are not set out in the notice of procurement or documentation, since the contracting authority itself forms the contractor, so it is for the social and environmental conditions to decide in any case. The obligation to establish social and environmental conditions and criteria is thus effectively eliminated by the second conditional part of this paragraph. With regard to the amended second paragraph, the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that there is still a discrepancy between the objective of the draft law and the proposed solution in the amended second paragraph. The main objective of the proposal is, inter alia, to improve the quality of food in public institutions. The amended second paragraph of Article 71 of the current law provides for the obligation of all contracting entities, i.e. all contracting entities referred to in Article 9 of the Law and not only public institutions, to make mandatory determination of the social and environmental aspects of public procurement, not just for the procurement of foodstuffs, but for each case of public procurement. With regard to the third paragraph, she pointed out that the law in force did not provide for the award of tenders and that it was only a method which had been put into practice. In view of this, the proposed provision on 50% of possible points is inconclusive, as it is not clear which points it refers to. In view of the above, he is Chairman of the Committee of Mag. Mr Verbič, under Rule 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, proposed that the Committee decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the debate on the draft decision, the opposition Members expressed their support for both the purpose and the reasons for the proposal for the bill, while agreeing with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that it was the wrong way of putting the provisions into the current legislation. Members of the coalition warned that the proposed solutions were non-professional and superficial, which they warned both the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service. They further pointed out the legislative and legal service's warning that there is a discrepancy between the objective and the proposed solutions to the proposal and the Government's warning that the proposed solution for misplacement in the applicable law is contrary to the objective that the proposal seeks to achieve. With regard to difficulties in implementing existing provisions on the possibility of ordering locally produced food, the necessity of linking farmers has been highlighted in order to make it easier for public institutions to provide a reliable supplier who could supply the desired quantities of vegetables and other crops all the time. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the proposal for a decision, the Committee adopted the following decision: The proposal for a law amending the Public Procurement Act is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u3	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Mag. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government was invited by the National Assembly to give its opinion on the proposal for a law amending the Public Procurement Act submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Andrej Chuš. It adopted its opinion on 6 April this year and in its opinion the Government opposes the proposal for a law for two reasons. The first is that the proposed regime is contrary to the objective that the proposal seeks to achieve because of the wrong placement in the law. In fact, Article 71, which is the subject of this Act, does not regulate the criteria, but lays down conditions which include social and environmental aspects. This provision also does not apply to the procurement procedure and not to the selection of tenderers, but refers to the execution phase of the contract, i.e. the contract, and therefore cannot affect the selection criteria and does not follow the objective that the applicant seeks to achieve. Moreover, this doctrine applies and binds all contracting authorities, not just public institutions. The second reason why the Government opposes the proposal for a law is that the proposal regulates the matter which is already covered by the current Public Procurement Act, namely the UNC-3, is already fully regulated in Articles 71 and 84 and the Green Public Procurement Regulation. The selection criteria are governed by Article 84 of the ZJN-3, paragraph 8, and it is already laid down in paragraph 8 that priority should be given to food products in quality schemes such as selection criteria for the procurement of foodstuffs. seasonally produced foods, in an integrated way seasonally grown foods, in an ecological manner and so on. In addition, foods produced under national food quality regulations and foodstuffs which have been produced and processed in a sustainable manner and which are guaranteed higher food quality in terms of greater freshness or lower environmental transport burdens. The current Green Procurement Regulation also regulates the share of quality elements in the selection of the operator and also sets a mandatory percentage of the proportion of organic food. At present, we are in the final stage of inter-sectoral coordination of the amendment of this Regulation and it is envisaged in this part that, in addition to the proportion of organic food, contracting authorities will also have to take into account as criteria the freshness standard for at least 5% of food, as well as the quality standard as defined for this purpose in the established schemes. In view of the above, the Government does not support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u6	Your Honor, the President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law amending the Public Procurement Act requires that public institutions in the selection criteria not only verify the price but also take into account other criteria that have a favourable impact on the movement of goods and services in the local environment. Where food, drink and agricultural crops are ordered for human consumption, those criteria should cover at least 50% of the possible points. When choosing food, the price cannot be the only factor in choosing. Slovenian farmers produce excellent quality and quality food, and local crops are certainly better quality due to the very short transit. Such products retain more fresh and nutritious substances. On the other hand, such a proposal would improve the position of Slovenian farmers and support our rural areas, which we all know is more empty every year. We believe that the implementation of this proposal in local areas would create a symbiosis between public institutions and Slovenian farmers, from which everyone would eventually have something. The proposal for a law from a nomotechnical point of view may be somewhat embarrassing, but in New Slovenia we are disappointed that the government coalition does not listen to the solutions contained in this proposal in a substantive sense. The government has an apparatus that could in a very short time draw up a new proposal for a law that would achieve the objectives set out in this proposal accordingly. This bill deals with the regulation of public procurement of public institutions, including schools and kindergartens. Above all, our youngest in the opinion of New Slovenia deserve quality food produced in our local environment. Let me remind you that the Commission has also understood the content of this proposal for the State Council and has supported the law. In Novi Slovenija we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending the Public Procurement Act is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u7	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mr Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u8	Your Honor! The novelty of the Public Procurement Act is part of a package of poorly substantiated and prepared bill proposals, to which the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has taken a harsh and critical position and rejected them all as unfit for further consideration. At the initiative of Mr Cuz, the Committee also considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Agricultural Chamber of Slovenia, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, the amendment of the laws on value added tax and income, which are also part of the package, and a similar fate was experienced by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. As in all the proposed laws mentioned above, the solutions are also non-professional and superficial in this law, which is pointed out both by the Government and by the Legal and Legislative Service. The legislative and legal service points out that there is a discrepancy between the objective of the bill and the proposed solutions, as well as the Government points out that the proposed regime for misplacement in the law opposes the objective that the bill seeks to achieve. According to the proposed solutions, the applicant did not follow the current discussions on the development of the short supply chains currently being held in the professional public and did not learn enough about the measures it has designed, adopted and implemented for this purpose by the Government. Promoting local sustainable food supply is one of the important objectives pursued by this government in its work. The increased enforcement of the principle of short purchase chains and thus a greater share of locally produced food and Slovenian food products in public procurement in public institutions was also one of the main objectives of the 13 regional conferences on public procurement of food and many round tables and consultations at all the Agra agri-food fairs in Gornja Radgona and the last focus on this topic in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Last June, a consultation was organised on the public procurement of food for all 26 Slovenian hospitals. The competent departments also participate in consultations organised by other partners, such as education for school food organisers organised by the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia and others. The activities carried out during the Slovenian Food Day, which is marked every third Friday in November, are also important. One of the main activities is the project Traditional Slovenian Breakfast, which is carried out in kindergartens, primary schools and educational institutions for children and adolescents with special needs. For breakfast distributed under this project, schools and kindergartens offer children bread, butter, honey, apple and milk produced or processed in Slovenia. This includes a school fruit and vegetables scheme, which is a European measure of the common agricultural policy, which means the free distribution of an additional meal of fruit or vegetables to children in primary schools and institutions for the education and education of children and adolescents with special needs. On permanent consultations and education, contracting authorities and food providers meet and face each other. Despite the fact that the contracting authorities are independent in the design of their public contracts and cannot be prescribed to order local Slovenian food, steps can be taken to increase the enforcement of its share in the entire public procurement of each contracting authority. It is also awareness-raising producers and food processors to report on public tenders issued by public institutions. In order to reduce bureaucratic barriers, an e-application project is under way for public procurement of food prepared by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In particular, the application is intended to simplify and facilitate the ordering of food in educational institutions. The model could then be passed on to ordering food from other public contracting authorities – homes for older citizens and hospitals. Within the framework of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, cooperation will, more specifically, be awarded to a beneficiary, organised as a partnership between several agricultural holdings with a leading partner, which is a cooperative, independent entrepreneur, an individual or an economic company, if one or more public establishments is supplied with local products. In this way, the strategic objectives of integration, promotion of locally produced food and increased supply of public institutions with the products mentioned above are pursued. For these reasons, we will reject or support the amendment of the law in the SMC Group that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Yesterday we discussed the law on early treatment of children with special needs. There was no representative of the Ministry here after us. Later, a representative of the Ministry of Labour joined. Today we are considering the proposal for a law amending the Public Procurement Act and there is no proposaler. President, I hope it doesn't ever happen, but you won't be sitting here alone when we're dealing with some points.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u11	This can't happen because then you can't start.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u12	But anything is possible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the draft amendments to the Public Procurement Act tabled by our colleague Andrej Chus. The Public Procurement Act should be a key element of transparency, transparency and clarity in the procurement of goods in the open market. The most common criterion for selecting tenderers in the procurement process is the price. However, the positive effects on the local economy and the quality of public procurement in public institutions are neglected. The fact is that in the area of self-sustainment, the situation in Slovenia is not the best, so it is still necessary for legislation and policy to allow institutions to move towards an improved situation in the area of local food production and sales, and thus to improve the quality of life of pre-school and school children in particular. Undoubtedly, the law would contribute to higher incomes on our farms, local connections, shorter transport, especially when it comes to so-called food products from field to plate, and the impact of foreign suppliers would also be reduced. The main solution, or amendment of the Public Procurement Act, which we have already endorsed on the home committee, is that public institutions in the selection criteria not only check the price but also take into account other criteria that have a favourable impact on the local environment on the movement of goods and services. It's just the subject of this change. Finally, I would like to say that it is not enough for the country to carry out media promotions for food products of Slovenian producers, but it would be right to make it easier, but, of course, according to the law, a certain route to the buyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, which will be brief and concise. The proposal for this novel Public Procurement Act is part of the so-called Couche Farm Package. It saddens me that the applicant does not have the will and the energy and the respect to present this position today. Let me get on with it. By this proposal of the Public Procurement Act, the applicant intervenes in Article 71 of the Public Procurement Act with the aim of including other criteria that have a favourable impact on the movement of goods and services and not simply checking the price. The applicant indicated that this amendment and the addition of Article 71 of the Public Procurement Act, which lays down conditions that include social and environmental aspects, would lead to the reduction of environmental pollution and the improvement of local connectivity and the improvement of the quality of food in public institutions. We believe that the proposal for the amendment to the Public Procurement Act is primarily prepared superficially and indeterminately. This is a discrepancy between the objectives and solutions of the bill proposal, which has also been identified by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government. Accordingly, we will support the decision of the home labour body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u15	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration mag. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The main objective and purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications (ZEKOM-1C) is to ensure the full transposition of Directive 2014/61/EU on measures to reduce costs for the deployment of electronic communications networks and services into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia has so far notified the rules in force and has thereby ensured partial compliance with the Directive in question. In order to complete the transposition of the Directive, a proposal for amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications with Content should also be adopted, as proposed. The transposition of the directive into our legal order is in a hurry, as the harmonisation of the ZEKom-1C proposal has been complex and time-consuming because of many stakeholders and their many conflicting requirements. However, with these additional consultations and coordination, we wanted to ensure the most effective, quality solutions, so that there would be no difficulties in its implementation in practice. In addition to the content related to the comprehensive transposition of the Directive, the law also regulates certain improvements in parts where it has in practice proved necessary. The proposal for a law by content, as it is said, is largely based on the requirements of the Directive, this is a directive of minimum harmonisation which still leaves countries with a considerable degree of flexibility to regulate certain specifications, national specifications. Slovenia has already introduced certain advanced solutions before this Directive and the proposal for a law in certain places exceeds the minimum requirements of the Directive. ZEKom-1C to the fullest extent intervenes in the chapter on the construction of networks and related infrastructure and in the section on the provision of competition. The solutions proposed are aimed at promoting the construction of public communications networks, the development of services for end-users, the reduction of construction costs and the promotion of the common use of existing infrastructure, not only of electronic communications infrastructure, but also of other economic public infrastructures. Some other essential solutions that the law also has. With regard to the determination of the number of points for the calculation of the payment paid by the operators by AKOS, i.e. the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, for its operation, we have followed the aspect of the proportional burden in the search for a solution, so that only half of the annual revenue from these services is taken into account by operators on a reasoned proposal for revenue from the public communications services of international transport, which is entirely originating and ending outside Slovenia. In the radio spectrum section, disagreements in the interpretation of the provisions of the ZEKom-1 and the law governing the media have led to the elimination of some inconsistencies in the delimitation of powers between the AKOS and the Broadcasting Council in the process of assigning radio frequencies for analogue broadcasting. For the benefit of end-users, in the interests of clarity, the provisions on contracting contracts are complemented and it requires operators to provide opportunities for monitoring and control of the use of data services. The powers of the Council of the Agency shall also be increased, which shall adopt the work programme and the financial plan and monitor their implementation. The requirements for candidates for the Director and members of the Board of the Agency to ensure the transparency of their interests are also increasing. We propose that the bill should be supported by a vote, thus allowing its further consideration and thus ensuring that the law is adopted as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u17	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications brings Directive 2014/61/EU to the Slovenian legal order. In view of the current requirements for the construction or reconstruction of multi-family and business buildings, and in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU, the proposal introduces an adjustment to the arrangements according to which the communication infrastructure in the joint parts of the building must be placed in the physical infrastructure of the building, i.e. in empty installation channels. It is precisely because of the possibility of later connecting end users to the high-speed network in New Slovenia that we support these adjustments. In addition, in order to provide information as well as to make sense, we see the possibility that a network operator, when basic information on existing physical infrastructure is not available in a pooled cadastra, will request this information from any infrastructure operator in the area concerned. The proposal provides that the Agency must explain its decision on the public call for radio frequencies accordingly, which is welcome for ensuring transparency. The proposal also allows users, within the framework of their domestic consumption, to be familiar with the use of data services or to set a financial or quantitative limit which they cannot exceed without specific authorisation. The possibility of setting such a limit, in our view, primarily for users who are slightly less skilled in the use of data transmission, increases online security. In New Slovenia we welcome the obligation to transfer emergency calls from vehicles to the authorities they deal with. This is a European Union project that implements a mechanism that automatically informs Call Centre 112 in case of an accident and thus saves a lot of valuable time to rescue. In accordance with this proposal, the authorities will have to upgrade their emergency call detection equipment and its transmission to the authority handling the call. It's about setting up a system to save lives. The proposal for this Act also requires the Agency for Communications Networks and Services to publish on its websites a link to information on the conditions and procedures for the authorisation of construction works needed to establish elements of high-speed electronic communications networks. The Agency’s concern is also, for example, to provide stakeholders with an opportunity to learn about relevant information. Since the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications makes some meaningful changes, in the New Slovenia Group we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u20	Your Honor, the President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications with the effects of the implementation of the European Directive and certain amendments to existing legislation are essential to ensure, in particular, the full transposition of the European Directive, aimed at facilitating and accelerating the establishment of high-speed communication networks by reducing costs for them, and improving the applicable legal arrangements in the workplace, when national provisions or wherever possible, where there is a clear and better way of transposing Directives than have already been transposed by the law in force. The main solutions to the draft law include the rationalisation, networking and related infrastructure, then the regulation of the radio spectrum where the distinction between the conditions and criteria relating to the evaluation of programme content is eliminated in the tendering process for radio frequencies, so that there can no longer be a systemic blockade in the preparation of frequency calls. So far, the powers between the Broadcasting Council and the Agency for Communications Networks and Services have overlapped or been unclear. It is further improving the security of networks and their operation in emergency situations, as cyber security, in the light of a recent attack at European Union level, has become a very important area. Access to building physical infrastructure and access to existing physical infrastructure is also being regulated. However, changes in the way a universal service provider is identified, where minimum requirements are laid down, ensuring that the law ensures that people in remote areas receive as much as possible. What is very important is the obligation imposed on operators concerning the transfer of emergency calls from vehicles. We're the first country in the world to put this in place. In particular, it is important to systematically improve the transparency and quality of operation of the Agency for Communications Networks of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the ban on the participation of the Director of the Agency in areas governed by the Agency. The procedure for the work programme and the Agency’s financial plan shall be further detailed. It is very important that the Agency should also be obliged to publish a minimum three-year regulatory strategy. In addition to the proposal for a law on mandatory transposition of the European Directive, it also introduces other appropriate measures to reduce costs and build high-speed electronic communications networks, which is essential for the spread of high-speed internet, the digital infrastructure of which is in fact supported by all sectors of the modern and innovative economy. That is why we decided in the SMC Group that we would support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u21	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u22	Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications. This is a proposal for amendments that have been falling apart since 2014. In view of the many proposed amendments, it would be much more useful to have a new bill on our hands today. Finally, the proposal is also critical to the professional public. As a result of this, we have also asked the Slovenian Democratic Party to hold a general debate on this law, and further consideration of the law will also lead to the necessary improvements. We believe that there should also be a public presentation of the opinions of the professional and interested public about the law, which we expect in the SDS Group will prevail in the coalition and will also support such a proposal. Why? We have a bill on our hands, and as many as 10 pages you have, respectably, within these various comments by different actors. Ten pages! The main purpose or objective of the proposed amendments is to transpose the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to reduce costs for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks into national legislation. Interestingly, the Directorate for the Information Society pointed out that Slovenia has already introduced advanced solutions from all areas of the Directives into the Slovenian legal order. If this is true, we should discuss today in particular what the effects of these advanced solutions have been, so we should certainly have a thorough analysis of the current implementation of the law and the other legal provisions related to this area before the amendments to the law and should also have an accurate evaluation of the effectiveness of the implementation of the 2014 EU Directive at the tables. We expect the representatives who are with us from the Ministry to present this today. It is worth noting that the law provides for changes that have never been part of a public debate. The only public debate, which was respected, was in 2014, and it is therefore legitimate to ask the question on what basis these changes were made at all. This will be the most overlooked warnings when it comes to protecting consumer rights and legal certainty. It also raises the question whether the law-makers are in line with the draft law, and this proposal is now on the table, completely succumbing to the interests of individual actors or rather the elite. The drafter also did not listen to warnings from the professional public about the necessary changes in the management of the Communications Networks and Services Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the shorter AKOS. Finally, the Ministry of Public Administration, as a proposal for amendments to the law, also ignored the decision of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth of the National Assembly, which called on the drafters of the law to clearly define the powers and tasks of the Director of AKOS in the law. ACOS is thus completely subordinate to politics and, in fact, without proper control. In such an important area as electronic communication, where a lot of resources are being converted and where many are justified and unfortunately also unjustifiable interests, the Agency would certainly need collective guidance. The current political takeover in all three worlds operating in this area is harmful and dangerous, as such a structure prevents serious professional work. In doing so, let me point out that the proposed amendments also remove an important role for local communities and favour operators. In fact, from the moon you can see who the changes to the bill are written for. This is a way of amending the legislation that, unfortunately, we are already familiar with this government and represents a wrong and harmful path. Legislation must be neutral and in particular seek innovative approaches to networking where the local community should play an important role. The law shall also contain a restriction on the restriction or termination of the operation of telephone connections in the event that that restriction is made to facilitate the operation of network connections with the so-called advantage. In this place, I warn, respectable, of the great degree of caution that there are no different forms of abuse in restricting users. In such a form as the proposed law is prepared today, where a number of comments by the professional public are neglected – once again I warn you, you even have some of them mentioned in the bill – where the important role of local communities is taken, we cannot support the law in this part. However, with all due respect, given that everything has been going on since 2014, there is sufficient time for the law, which also brings some improvements and has been highlighted by the predecessors, so I will not expose them, improve them, and make public representations of the opinions of the professional and interested public on the basis of this proposal of the law and do not take into account the public debate on the opinions that took place in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u23	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u24	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! We have before us a proposal for a law that we will unanimously support in the Desus Group at first reading. Its purpose is to strengthen the functioning of the internal market and to promote coverage through the broadband network, which is a condition for the development of the Digital Single Market. With the adoption of the law, we will bring into the Slovenian legal order a directive introducing measures to reduce the costs of building high-speed electronic communications networks. We expect positive impacts on the prevalence of the use of high-speed internet, whose digital infrastructure supports a modern and innovative economy. The proposal provides that only half of the annual revenue from public communications services of international transport, which originates in full and ends outside Slovenia, shall be taken into account by operators in determining the number of payment points paid to the Agency. In the area of construction, it is stipulated that the communication infrastructure in the joint parts of the building must be placed in the building physical infrastructure, i.e. in the empty installation channels, due to the possibility of further integration of end-users into the high-speed network. At the same time, categories of buildings for which this obligation does not apply shall be determined. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services undertakes to draw up at least a three-year radio spectrum management strategy and to publish it on its websites after obtaining the Government's consent. Since cyber security at EU level has become a very important area at global level, broader action is also envisaged at national level and the proposal for a law also allows future development in this area, irrespective of the body responsible for cyber security. In the Desus Group we welcome the purpose of the bill to provide services for public mobile information and alarm systems in the event of major natural and other disasters. A more important solution is the solution that requires operators to upgrade their emergency call detection equipment and to transmit it to the body that is dealing with it. The bill will therefore, in addition to the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, improve the legal regime in force and we will therefore vote in the Desus Group for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President, again for your word. Today, we have a comprehensive proposal for a law, both in terms of articles and in terms of scope, and from a substantive point of view, it is a very difficult law. The area covered by electronic communications is met daily mainly by the use of the internet, telephone, television receivers, but it is much more complex and important than anyone at first sight thinks. But it takes a lot of knowledge and integration to get through material that's so important and so technical. Why? Electronic communication infrastructure is very important for all sectors of the country, and professional and interested public were invited to prepare the most possible regulation of life. It is clear from the material provided that a large number of stakeholders were involved in the preparation of this proposal. Or this also means improving the law and it will be seen in the next legislative procedure. The main objective of this novelty is to introduce measures by means of the transposition of Directive 2014/61/EU that will help to reduce the costs of the construction of high-speed electronic communications networks. Reducing costs and improving the efficiency of the construction of high-speed electronic communications is essential for the spread of high-speed internet, whose digital infrastructure supports virtually all sectors of the modern and innovative economy. The time limit for transposition of this Directive has expired already in January 2016 and is therefore in a hurry to adopt the law. However, the European Commission's threat to the Republic of Slovenia because of the non-transferability of the Directive must not be the reason for the swift and reckless amendment of those provisions of the Electronic Communications Act, which are not bound by the Directive, and between the professional and interested public it brings more disagreements as a solution. Electronic communications are part of our daily lives today, and it is therefore very important how and how this spine will be protected from hacker intrusions into the main infrastructure systems of the country. At the same time, it is also necessary to provide for the supervision and processing of personal data and the protection of the privacy of electronic communications. In the radio spectrum section, disagreements in the interpretation of the provisions of the ZEKom-1 and the law governing the media and, in the opinion of the applicant, are eliminated with regard to the delimitation of powers between the Agency and the Broadcasting Council in the process of assigning radio frequencies for analogue broadcasting. The powers of the Board of the Agency shall be enhanced to adopt the Agency’s programme and financial plan and to monitor their implementation. The Board of the Agency will no longer have the power, as proposed, to propose the appointment of the Director of the Agency, as the requirements for candidates for the Director and members of the Board of the Agency for ensuring the transparency of their interests are increasing. In order to avoid potential conflicts of interest, the irreconcilability of the Director’s and his deputies’ functions through their other activities extends to prohibited business, to business cooperation in relation to an activity under the responsibility of the Agency. I have only mentioned some amendments and additions to this important regulation. However, at this point, I might also take the proposaler’s conclusion on the Constitutional Court’s decision of 3. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Court has repealed the entire chapter of the law relating to data storage. The Constitutional Court also decided that all information obtained under Article 163 of the Act must be destroyed immediately after the decision was published in the Official Journal. In addition, it should be stressed that the European Union court declared the Data Storage Directive, which Slovenia has transposed into the national legal order, invalid. We are confident that the debate on the appropriateness of individual solutions will only develop in the course of the legislative process, due to comments from both the professional and the interested public, but we believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u27	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u28	Dear Mr. President! Dear Members and Members! The area of electronic communications is one of the key areas for the future of Slovenia, as well as for the development of the world at all. In the areas of new technologies, we can talk about two conflicting logics. One is the one who closes and uses these technologies primarily to control and pursue commercial interests, and the other is the one that opens up, with new technologies, to create new opportunities for broad participation and to promote public interest. It is in this light that we in the United Left are assessing legislative proposals from the fields of electronic communications. As far as regulation and the legislative framework are concerned, the situation in Slovenia is not exactly pink. We have some examples of arrangements that are brighter exceptions, where we are better off than other European countries, because our solutions are among the more advanced. This is the case with the current regime on internet neutrality, but I will talk more about this further, but unfortunately the general electronic communication in Slovenia is still inadequately regulated. For years we have been able to hear calls for the necessity of a new Law on Electronic Communications, so-called ZEKom-2. We have heard promises from the ministries on numerous occasions that this will happen. We already have them today, or we will, I'm sure of that. There are currently two key problems in the area of electronic communications regulation. The first is inadequate consumer protection or better said inadequate protection of public interest, while the second is a wrong and ineffective control and management framework. Here I am referring to the triangle of the Akos, the Electronic Communications Council and the Broadcasting Council. When considering this new amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications, we must count on the fact that all the work so far and all the words so far have been confirmed. Minister Koprivnikar advocates that trend, which wants to use information technology in particular for the pursuit of commercial interests, for increasing subordination of public sector employees and supervision of citizens. The Ministry of Education in this field is not better or more successful. The transposition of the directive, which is the central part of the novel under consideration, should be carried out by the end of 2015, which means we are two years behind schedule. With regard to the novel, I would like to point out four points. The first is internet neutrality. In the previous draft, which was sent to public hearing a while ago, the Ministry of Public Administration wanted to turn online neutrality into the worst in accordance with a regulation adopted by the European Parliament and was lobbyed by the largest multinationals in the field of telecommunications. The European Parliament adopted a regulation and the regulation contained a number of dedicated legal loopholes that would allow large telecommunications companies to unfairly discriminate against Internet traffic, thereby jeopardising the openness, neutrality and democratic nature of the media. Fortunately, the Association of European Supervisors of BEREC then issued guidelines for the functioning of national regulators, which took account of their commitment to the principle of internet neutrality. However, every word of Article 65 of the novel should be carefully considered, as the provision is still questionable in terms of the neutrality of the Internet. The second is the change with regard to AKOS. In the light of past experience, it can be found that the change in the functioning of AKOS unfortunately makes the situation worse but not improves. During the time of the Government of Mir Cerar, it has proved that AKOS is not independent of every political or party interest and is even less independent of commercial interests. Attention should be drawn to the problem of so-called rotating doors; those who are supposed to supervise come from or depart from positions in controlled companies. The stories about profit practices of the highest official, sublime business cooperation and so on are also resounding. [[…]] At the same time, the Council for Electronic Communications has become an extension of the policy, while at the same time the issue of its competence or placement. In other words, the Council has no role to play. The law does not solve this; it even complicates the situation with some articles, which will lead to even worse functioning and even more imprudent. The actual consequences of this novel will be that there will be an even greater political subordination of the AKOS. The third issue to be mentioned in the specific novelty is the transposition of a directive aimed at promoting comprehensive coverage through broadband. At the abstract level, of course, this is an urgent and very positive objective that we welcome in the United Left, but it is a directive of minimum harmonisation, which gives Member States more flexibility in regulating this area widely in national legislation. However, the arrangement brought by the novel to the Zekem goes into great detail. Why? For the novel is not written neutrally, but according to the measure of known actors. The law is written on the skin of the largest operators, and it also assumes certain powers for local communities. In the case of broadband coverage, the private interests of telecommunications capital, rather than the public's interests, are being promoted. The fourth point is consumer protection. The provisions of the novel do not eliminate critical points in consumer rights, and we know, for example, from the practices of the biggest Slovenian operators such as Simobil, now A1, and Telekom, that in the field of electronic communications there is a great deal for consumers of harmful practices, not to say even fraud and abuse. We would need clear and decisive solutions, but only beauty corrections are proposed and in a way that leaves a lot of open space for harmful practices. Finally, the legislative process and the draft show that the Ministry, led by Boris Koprivnik, did not take into account the comments of the interested and professional public, taking into account to a greater extent the interests of private companies and their lobbyists. In the United Left of the New Law on Electronic Communications, we cannot therefore support and do not understand it as suitable for further consideration. Not only does it prolong the inappropriate state, it consciously goes in the direction of the wrong logic that I mentioned at the outset. However, as the coalition appears to confirm the amendment, in the United Left we will propose appropriate amendments to the law, which will put public interest and consumer protection first in the fields of electronic communications.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u29	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I don't have much time, I want to talk a little bit more about electronic communications, and I say that, of course, the Law on Electronic Communications is extremely important. I also argue that Slovenia, I mean all governments here, simply did not understand the European Commission when it published the European Digital Agenda. At the time, I listened and read, and I still read today what this digital agenda for Europe actually brings. When presented by the previous President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, I made an extrapolation for Slovenia from his prediction, and this extrapolation showed that, when implementing the digital agenda in Slovenia, we would need 3 000 ICT engineers by the end of last year, because we do not have that many. I expect and recommend and suggest, Mr President, that the next composition of the National Assembly be set up by the Committee on the Digital Economy or the Digital Society. We're all talking about eStorities, about the Digital Single Market, and of course, because we all know, I repeat myself, you're already tired of me, probably who won't be digital, won't be that! And that's a fact. I believe that. I really believe that. When we were, a group of friendships with Germany in Bundestag and talked to the Committee on Digital Society and the Digital Economy, we saw that it would be very good for us to raise this working body in the next term. Well, the hot water's open. All you have to do is carry it to us. Speaking of the Digital Single Market, we also need to talk about whether all citizens and citizens have the opportunity to go to the Digital Single Market. Do we all have access to eServices? The answer is no. Today, the answer is very clear — no. So we have two groups of citizens; one who have this privilege, which is not actually a privilege today, is a simple communication road, a highway, and others do not have this option. So they're discriminated against. And I've had a lot of laughs, but I meant very seriously, if we wrote down the right to drinking water into the constitution, we should actually write down the right to access the internet to the constitution. Otherwise we cannot talk about the Digital Single Market, eStorities for everything, etc. Since some simply do not have these options, they are long-term citizens. Very concretely, I will speak very hard, if we have a serious purpose, it is necessary as soon as possible, therefore, a serious intention to realize what our wishes are and what we say at the declaration level, so everyone can access the Internet and not any kind of speed – what the Digital Slovenia Strategy says, writes 100 megabits per second for each connection, for every household, if you want. [[…]] If we want to make this happen, I want to see it in the budget, maybe in the balance sheet for 2018, the item, high 300 million euros to build it. Or maybe private capital needs to be invested, but then some people have problems here again, and her privates won't do that to us. Really, why not? Thank God we have people like that to have this interest! Another thing I have to say here at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable that our eServices, specifically eTaxes, are simply not allowed to be used with certain browsers. Of course, most of you don't even know that. Recently Furs published a notice to users to turn off the Firefox upgrade, a web browser, because eTax will work for the Firefox 52 version, and you know that applications, including the Firefox browser, are always updated. Why? Because they're incorporating security elements. It's about security. This is unacceptable, unacceptable, that eTaxes, so some very important eService cannot spin, if I may say so, on the web browser, which is the second most widely distributed in Slovenia. Data for April 2017 show: 50.8% Chrome browser, Firefox is second, almost 32%, third is Internet Explorer with 9.2%. Look, these are numbers, but we have to start talking numbers here once. And again, here I am talking about another subset of citizens who are discriminated against because they have and love Firefox. I mean, that's unacceptable. True, I have to be corrected, Furs said that by the end of May this mistake — they admitted a mistake — would be overturned. I have too little time today to talk about cybersecurity in this context. Look, we just kind of learned and thought we knew everything about information security, already there's cybersecurity, some new concept. This is information security, which is also the safety of applications, network security and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u31	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The present law, as we have heard, was created on the basis of the European directive, which follows the objectives of facilitating procedures and promoting the establishment of high-speed communications networks, including by reducing the costs of this arrangement – in one part. In the second part, there is also a change in national legislation, which has proved to be a mystery in the past, if not problematic. The value of investments in the electronic communications sector is increasing from year to year, especially the total revenue from services provided and interconnection services. It is also true that the revenue from the public telephone network has been reduced in a fixed location because it is a trend that fixed telephony is offered as part of a package operator and is mostly in place in various institutions, institutions, business entities and very rarely at home, because we are all simply used to having mobile phones. This means that, through operators, two thirds of fixed telephony services are provided in the form of IP telephony, as well as access to television channels where the number of IP connections is growing. While, as it is said, the trend of cable TV connections is declining or decreasing. So the picture of our space, if I may say so, simply shows a change in time, as well as technology, and it seems appropriate for me to follow these changes properly. I think it is very good that the bill, including through the directive, optimizes the construction of networks and infrastructure in a way that will require much more transparency in the planned work, as well as the communication infrastructure in the joint parts of the building, in a way that will facilitate the subsequent integration of end-users into the high-speed network. It seems good to me that this will require a detailed definition of the use of public funds for the construction of the network, including by the need to carry out a process of research on market interest in construction. What I also think is good is the provision of a law that obliges AKOS to draw up at least a three-year radio spectrum management strategy that must be accessible to the public. At the same time, the issue of controversy or confusion between AKOS and SRDF, including because of their different interpretations of ZEK in the allocation of radio frequencies, has already been addressed. It seems to me that a step forward has been taken here; that is, the law will make it clear in a new way that the Agency will determine the conditions and criteria. This seems to me to be the case because the Agency is also the supervisory authority, while the Broadcasting Council will issue a written opinion on the initiatives. However, the Ministry of Culture will have, as a department that runs or is responsible for the media landscape, its consent to the conditions and criteria laid down by the Agency will also be required under the law. It seems to me that, with regard to these complications, which we have also been briefed by Members, this, if I may say so, has cut off the apparent Gordic knot. However, I am not saying that reading is, of course, not possible or justified, for example, correction or at least discussion of any possible, perhaps other solutions. In their position, some have also disputed governance structures within the Agency in a way that is intertwined with politics. It's very difficult to define myself. But what I can assure you is that if there is actually this overlap, it is certainly not by the SMC, as it somehow wanted to be staged in some perfidious way through the United Left. I myself think that if this interlocking occurs, it certainly occurs in some other specific political structures that also have a specific agenda in the field of the media. It also seems good to me that the CCOS is required to ensure competition in order to draw up a minimum three-year regulatory strategy, which must also be accessible to the public. The law also proposes a provision whereby the Agency may allow a network operator to apply for access to unused fibre optics by the owner of another type of economic public infrastructure. It can also regulate access to building physical infrastructure, which I think is good, but of course this must not be an infrastructure that somehow belongs structurally to the police, defence, protection, rescue, assistance. So, in some part, it is also a matter of providing some kind of cybersecurity, which, as already mentioned in recent attacks, has certainly become our global reality and that, in fact, the law also provides for broader national action in such cases, also with the possibility of setting up a suitable body. Personally, I do not think that the establishment of an organ can be a question: yes or no. Above all, it seems to me that this is a matter of time and it should be a matter of will, because I personally think that we need such an authority to know each other about such, if I may say so, cyber attacks are also an appropriate response, even through an authority that can then coordinate certain things. What I think is good is that it is also an obligation for operators to ensure that, when we talk about cyber security, they also ensure the functioning of networks in a way that provides alternative routes in the event of an attack, especially in order to support the operation of critical infrastructure determined by the Government or its security authority. However, here I agree with colleague Bah Žibert, who has already mentioned in her position that this can be a sensitive area concerning abuse, so that these criteria must, of course, also be very clearly defined. I would also like to point out that in achieving or pursuing the objective of using electronic communications for all good, I would like to suggest certain changes in the way a universal service provider is identified when the call for tender fails to achieve, somehow, an economically more efficient identification of the operator. This, of course, also applies to places that are, say, geographically more remote, so that it is also listened to, if I may say, to provide citizens with adequate access to the Internet. Thus, given that the law addresses some issues that seem to me to be somehow relevant to today, we will, of course, support this first reading in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u33	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and the mags. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to set a different frame of reference to this law and the solutions it brings to the beginning, but not to be misunderstood. In recent years, ministers, political parties and even competence over the information society have been replaced by ministers from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Ministry of Public Administration. Well, the Director of the Information Society Directorate, Mr Turk, remains. And if you are wondering why many ideas for the benefit of corporations remain in the proposal, and if you are wondering why public debates, despite certain modern solutions, favoured openness, neutrality to the user in this law do not at all want to, this may be part of the answer. But let it not be understood personally, but it often happens that in this circle we are responsible for everything, despite the fact that on the table, regardless of the circumstances, we get laws that someone else is constantly preparing in one and the same line without resistance. Well, and although I support the law at first reading, especially in order to be able to make a public presentation of opinions, and in particular in order to be able to face all possible good and bad solutions within the Committee, I must say that I hope that this law will come across at least once, I think, a healthy amount of resistance in a way that brings those solutions that are urgent and good into law through second reading. Since the preparation and the attempt to enforce this law, at least that is my impression, has delayed so long as at one of the meetings, such as today’s – with a little less willingness to discuss, perhaps in relative silence and moderation, with the absence of a debate between Members and Members – these solutions are cleared up. What's the key to this? Firstly, I would not repeat what has been said about neutrality, nor would I go to the Agency, to be appointed, under the authority of the Director, to the urgency of leaving everything in the hands of one person, although of course I understand the logic. If we just focus on something that is already in the core that is incomprehensible to be found in marriage, it is that the construction of broadband networks, open broadband networks, the legislator or the bill-maker thinks that self-governing local communities have nothing to say and that there is no need for us to ask them, nor do we need to cooperate with them. No problem, we'll be from Ljubljana, we'll be from the center. Okay. Well, you won't! At least I won't give you a vote for it! I will support this law at first reading, with great joy, because in digitisation, in the information society, without delay, we are going back in many ways. And it is very difficult to walk around San Francisco or at the University of Madison, where the Ph.D. is currently completing the Fulbright Scholar Jernej Stromajer, our professional associate in the parliamentary group, and to see what is possible, what is with the great simplicity to achieve, and this is not going well with us. Of course, Mr. Turk, I'm looking at you! And it is also an important part of your responsibility from the past, the present and I hope that tomorrow will be something more responsible for this assembly and that we may hear more easily what the establishment has been able to hear. On purpose or not. It is my sincere expectation, and I commend all the drafters of this law, that we will take this as good work materials and that we will make a good law with this good work material, with the help of a public presentation of opinions and with the help of committee work. Because, you know, the interest on the part of corporations in implementing the principle of equal access and equitable development is not one way or another, so it is a matter of control over the use of public funds, if there is an interest, for example, in my places somewhere on the slopes of Šmartna near Paka, that one of the private capital institutions decides to build, I mean, this is great, but it will not happen and it will not happen. But what is essential is that you put them in semi-comprehensible articles and ignore the warnings of those who have to say the most. Not you, Secretary of State, I've been in a cabinet that's fallen for the same stunts, so I know, and this time I'll be much more careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u35	Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare the mags. Branko Grims and Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, and I'm a very good-bye! The objectives and principles and the main solutions of the bill are also to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of building and high-speed electronic communications, which is essential for the expansion of the high-speed internet, which is supported by digital infrastructure in fact by all sectors of the modern and innovative economy. I'm going to ask you a very simple question. If we really want to achieve very easy and fast access to the electronic network via an optical network, why do we not simply bring the optical network into every household through a network that is built for electricity. So, just like the electric cable goes through the air to the house, it can also go to the optical cable, and it's the simplest and cheapest solution and it's actually feasible right now. So whether we will approach such a way of rescue and, of course, allow rural areas and also all those who want to have modern communication as soon as possible to enable them to do so. Not everything is about digging up and putting these optical cables into the ground, it is extremely expensive, building expensive shafts that are practically empty; in short, it is very irrational to approach it. So whether this will happen in this way, because we are still faced with cases that, for example, the Old Church Primary School in Kočev municipality is still connected to the telecommunications network in an entirely inadequate way, that any more serious lightning strikes or thunders cause the system to fail, and if this happens before the wages are paid, the entire collective will remain unpaid, because without electronic communication it is not possible to do so. How is it possible that the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia does not react and issue a decision to arrange this immediately? Therefore, we are faced with the fact that it is easy for the Communications Networks Agency as a regulator not to do its work, and this has also been pointed out on several occasions by the Electronic Communications Council, including on the working body in which I was present when we discussed the Agency's report, we have adopted conclusions to address the uncertainties in the implementation of the Agency's tasks for Communications Networks. This law does not resolve this, and on this occasion I also point out that, as drafters of the law, you take into account the guidance of the parental committee at the time and that the relationship between the Director and the Council of the Agency is clear, especially at the stage of the adoption of the financial plan and the work programme. The fact is that this law has deprived the Council of its competence, because it does not give consent to the financial plan, and here the field of non-transparent action is reopened. If we add to this a system of pricing or tariffs paid by users, then we find that the Agency is actually preparing priced post festivals, that is to say, it is somehow adapting them to some interested groups, and at the time when we start adapting the system to interested groups, citizens and citizens are paying a high price, because these services are actually being auctioned out uncontrolledly in Slovenia. If these fees are not cleared, this law will not really bring about much progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u37	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Prepare Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert and Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Since it is the first debate, we are talking about goals, principles, what is in marriage and what is not. Let me begin by continuing the thought of the forerunner. The embarrassing thing about what he suggested is that there is also a directive for electric water to go to the ground in settlements, because this is supposed to reduce radiation burden. Thus, this solution is not as simple as mentioned. But it certainly makes sense that these things are being solved at the same time. The whole developing world puts in the ground a pipe and then through these pipes, one and the other things are carried out by the appropriate waters, and for each of us there is a single dig and it increases costs and damages on infrastructure and so on and so on. In short, it would be reasonable and rational to actually solve these things at the same time. What made me stop by is what's not in this marriage. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been three years since the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions relating to the collection of data from electronic providers, which, as you all well know, are also used in criminal proceedings and so on. Nothing's happened since. Three years have passed, and there is no legal basis for this gathering. It happens that suppliers collect these data for their commercial purposes, including those on subscribers where there is no commercial purpose to issue an account or anything like that. Which, of course, means that everything that is then used and actually used by the police is being used illegally. And it is a great, clear and obvious danger that, in the case of complaints, all such data will be based on procedures flying the entire line. Unless it's someone's goal to get a "bankster" in the end to be nicely forgiven and everything's going to go under the rug, there's going to be a ten-euro robbery, or someone's house will be confiscated for 100 euros. It's not a legal state, you all know that. As a result, at the last session of the Commission, which I am leading, the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, because this is also our competence, we have taken this issue seriously once again and we have taken the decision unanimously that the Government should, however, speed up the preparation of an appropriate legal proposal and complete this legal void and establish an actual legal order so that the harmful consequences will no longer be affected. Of course, two must be taken into account; one is the interest in making the procedures effective, that the criminal law is based on the relevant legal bases and that the trial is held back, and on the other hand, that things are placed in such a way that the human rights of everyone and everyone are fully respected and that they are unnecessary to no one and never interfere with their privacy. Therefore, that respect for human rights is consistent and in the first place, on the other hand, it is necessary to provide an adequate legal basis for the prosecution of persons who commit criminal acts. Three years, ladies and gentlemen, it's been three years. It is high time to do so, because if they do so, they will also be responsible for all those who, by abandoning individual actions, contribute to such harmful consequences for the country and the Slovenian nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u39	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Let Dr. Dragan Matić prepare, and then let us turn to the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you, President, for your word. Well, today's debate showed how right we were when we proposed a general debate in the Slovenian Democratic Party on this bill. The fact is that the coalition also comes to the fore, and so is the fact that the bill leaves a lot of open things behind. Now some, particularly by Members of the largest coalition party, have stressed all that is good in the law. In a way, it's probably normal to pick political points. But it's an area that's more than important in this country that's the most developing country and that's, in fact, very sensitive in some way. We've already highlighted some of this today. But you know, the change of law is, I'm not gonna say pointless, but it won't bring the right solutions if we don't settle the summit itself. This has already been said in my position and then something in the debate. The fact is that we have problems between the AKOS and the Electronic Communications Council, and this amendment does not solve this. In one article, you tried to change things there at 174th, but that's not it. The fact is, it's the authorities and it's about, then it's about the director of AKOS. Look at the appointment! The E-Communication Council is proposing to the National Assembly, and AKOS is proposing to the Government. There are already some boundaries here, which should also apply to certain obligations and also to the added value of individual work. This is not arranged, and you have been warned, and this has also led to the decision of the Committee of the National Assembly that these matters should be regulated — and this law does not regulate them. In particular, you mention that this is a directive that needs to be implemented, which I have already said in my position, in 2014. On the other hand, the Directorate for the Information Society says that a lot of this has already been implemented. I have already called on the Ministry's representatives to tell us what is being implemented or where we are in this area when it comes to bringing these high-speed high-speed networks into use. Where are we? Where are the effects? On the other hand, I know above all that many citizens and citizens still have no basic connections and that we have problems. Previously, it has been said that many times and especially now users are going from classic telephone networks to so-called electronic GSM and so on apparatus, but we still have parts of Slovenia that are not covered. They are simply parts of Slovenia that simply do not have the opportunity to use such means of communication. That is why I have also pointed out the dangers when it comes to giving priority to a network with priority connections in individual areas or moments. This is, of course, well-intentioned, I believe, and it is, but now tell me these many areas where already this mode of communication is very bad, which they already have on the border, I don't know if there are many operators, they all fall down, the networks break. They will continue to be second-rate, because this point will have priority and will be deprived of ordinary users and will now be legalized and will not be able to complain about anything and no one. That's the problem. There may also be abuses here, that everyone will say, that is the advantage and so is, but we will not do anything to build upgrades, so that the system works so that we do not need such advantages at all, because they would act on their own, perhaps in some way, in their own network. Even because of the various cyber attacks, it is certainly important that we are very strict on these points with priority and that we may also be able to distinguish this from some general utility, but not that we are already putting into law how we will essentially justify it when users do not receive access. But today, actually, there's a long-distance job going on. Today, if somehow there is no access to these networks, many systems, including a small company, can blink. We are not just talking about large systems, we are not just talking about these systems with priority, we must avoid such solutions, where other users will have to be limited. We are looking for solutions so that all users will have constant and rapid access. This is the future. The future is not about finding limits, the future is about building things up. Speaking of why we are also proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there should be another debate and a debate of the public concerned, the professional public. In 2014, there was a consultation, then actors had the opportunity to present their opinions, their proposals. What kind of proposal came from the draft itself today, when this one is on the table, shows that the legislator has succumbed, I will say, to the lobby. According to the solutions that they are, they are subject to individual lobbying. However, it has not been taken into account that the professional public actually engages in professional activities and has no other interests, because we all know that there is a lot of money around here, including a lot of tax money, the money of all of us, and that is why we need to be even more careful in these areas. And now, just for the intermezza. See, sometimes it also applied to the so-called Agency, the Electronic Communications Council, so that they could give separate opinions on individual matters. Separate opinions that have been taken into account. This time, the Director of the Electronic Communications Council made it impossible for a separate opinion to come forward when we are talking about a proposal for a law. And the separate opinion was most focused on the AKOS-Electronic Communication Council relationship. If I take a healthy farmer's mind, it means it's in someone's interest that there's no clear picture here, that there's no situation or arrangement here, a state of affairs that works. We all know the problem is there, but I call on the coalition to understand, to stop such a law, to stop such a law, or to make things better, and not to let it go on until these things are settled in the country. Because the picture becomes even more hazy in this way, it is easier to spend money and things are not being solved in the right place. But the fact of this law is one thing: that things do not want to be solved where there are the biggest problems: between one world and another the third world, as previously said, this triangle. And it remains unclear and remains unclear in jurisdiction if there are unclear powers, there is no transparency, then there is an excuse for each other's responsibility, others say that they are responsible for one thing, others are not responsible for the other, others are not talking about interference, etc. Those who, of course, serve this fine service — the caravan goes on, and you did not save anything with this law. Of course, there are some pleasant solutions in marriage when we talk about so-called security numbers and so on. That sounds really nice to the public, and, I'm not going to say, a very smart solution. But look, it's moving away from what's still the problem with this marriage. 2014 – Today we are 2017, and you are talking again about how to hurry because we are late. Of course, we are late because it was in the interest of someone to miss it, so that we could quickly get it back under the roof again, but everything in that essential part will remain the same! Obviously, the legislator, now that you've transferred this to the Ministry of Public Administration, does not follow the decisions of this National Assembly. First of all, you whistle at the legislative branch of power, you whistle because you have a conclusion that things are going to work out, and they're not. They're not in this marriage. And I don't understand, respectable coalition, how you can spit in your own bowl. You are Members here, we are here to take legal solutions, we are here to take decisions on the committees, and then the Government, your government, ignores it. And you say everything is nice and right and let the law go forward and of course, because it will be when it is. Here I welcome, in essence, the position or debate of the SD, in particular my colleague Škobernet and Mr Weber, who have pointed out some things. They also pointed out the problem of literally ignoring local communities. You're gonna centralize everything! Practically, look, they don't have a word about what's going on in their area. These are, however, questions that are fundamental to the whole country. And it is true that even in the constitution we would have written down that we all have access to this form of network, the Internet. Today in the world, children are actually doing everything remotely, a lot of things. We're a long way from here. And now we're gonna rule out local communities! Actually, it's a nice way of abolishing the congregations. In each marriage we take something and then we reduce the average, then we say that with another law we will take measures that will make it easier for them to work. Look, this is for the fine destruction of local communities, such a sophisticated way. There's something about every marriage. Certainly, look at the 10 pages already in this bill, where there were only 10 pages, but 10 pages short, how many comments have come from different sides and how many more comments have been made, respected! I mentioned the case earlier that the separate opinions of the professional public should not have gone any further because the Director has prevented them despite the rules of procedure which provides that they may have a separate opinion and a separate opinion should be communicated to the following or subsequent bodies. That didn't happen. It means there's something very wrong in this area. Today, you will let this bill go forward, but I urge you, this triangle needs to be regulated very precisely and very specifically, otherwise there will be no transparency in this area, it will be blurry and the elitist pockets that have served for many years in this area will still be filled. But I hope it's not in anyone's interest. First of all, it is our interest and it must be that citizens and citizens have access to make it possible for them to use, to have a protected country on the other hand, as regards the modern cyber attacks, which Slovenia is likely to be unable to avoid, at least as far as the latest cases are concerned. And above all, let us regulate this area as it advises us and the real professional public. Consider, indeed, I invite you to consider the initiative to hold another public debate, because it was in 2014; it was then a draft, today is a proposal. Why are you afraid of that? There is only one reason – because you would run into so many contradictions that you know that such changes to the law could not go on. And at that time, the distinguished representatives of the ministry – and you are not to blame for the fact that the law was breaking from one ministry to another – should have a new bill today that would have made a number of more advanced solutions. The things Brane Grims spoke about, as well as more emphasis on cybersecurity. And we don't have an orderly or a main triangle yet, but it's just an interest; not that it's not possible. The interest is that the area is unclear, and the interest is that the area is not transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u41	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. After these apocalyptic speeches, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and her colleague, Mr Grims, would nevertheless try to calm this matter down in the direction of the debate. I think the law is good. In order to improve it further, I can also agree, in particular with regard to these comments on the integration of local communities, it is likely that there will be a need to consider what else. In any event, these references on the need to ensure that access to the Internet is enshrined in the Constitution in the same way as the right to water has been entered into the Constitution. This comparison seems a little inappropriate to me. Water is the physiological need of man since the precivilization times when he lived in caves and needed water. And as long as a man exists in one form or another, he will need water. But the Internet is something we've had for the last 20 years. I agree that there may still be a need to think about strengthening any entry into the Constitution in the sense that there is a right to access information. But to start now with some technological solution that is currently in place, we don't know what development will bring us, because it's a leap in this area, but it's a little, I think, a populist proposal. Mrs. Gibert was talking about two things. First, that the drafters of this law on the one hand have surrendered to the lobbies and, on the other hand, that no comments have been taken into account. But on these 20 pages, if you look at it, some comments were taken into account, some were not. I did not exactly count them, but so quickly looked at, more comments were taken into account than disregarded. It is true, however, that comments were made by certain companies having an interest in these electronic communications and in certain interest associations. It is understandable that they have very specific interests in this area of this company and also want to enforce them in such a way as to comment on the proposal for a law. But now to claim in the same breath that the applicant did not take into account the comments, while at the same time giving in to the lobby – when the SDS party responds, it is those who propose comments that the professional public, if they do not respond, are lobbyists. I mean, that's very, very arbitrary, isn't it? We're just messing around with these stickers, which, of course, is wrong. In this context, there would be a slightly more principled and less populism in these debates when we talk about such a serious subject as the Law on Electronic Communications. It was obvious that this complication between SRDF and AKOS, which in the past, unfortunately led to a blockage in frequency allocation, was not resolved. That's not true. In view of the differences in the interpretation of the provisions of the ZEKs, the new law now stipulates that "... for the allocation of radio frequencies for analogue broadcasting, the distinction between the conditions and criteria relating to the evaluation of programme content and other conditions and criteria shall be abolished." The SRD will no longer define the conditions and criteria, so it cannot block the issuance of frequencies anymore but merely gives its written opinion in advance, and the conditions and criteria will be determined by the radio-spectrum management agency and is also responsible for its decisions. However, the Ministry of Culture, which has the competence to manage the development tasks in the media field, will, following the proposal for this legislative amendment, give its consent to the conditions and criteria to be laid down by the Agency. Thus, this blockade, which has been in the past and has also been pointed out at the Committee on Culture meeting, is lifted and what Mrs Anja Bah Žibert says is not true. As regards the issue of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, as discussed by Mr Grims, it should be noted that the proposal of this Act will amend Article 151 to read and quote: “Traffic data which do not relate to subscribers and users, and which has been processed and stored by the operator, must be deleted or amended in such a way that they cannot be linked to a particular or identifiable person immediately” – I emphasise that “when it is no longer necessary for the transmission of communications, except in cases where a longer period of storage has been established under this law with regard to the monitoring and control of data services” – it is said that the user wishes to know how much he has used — “the view of the call in force, as regards internal procedures, the security and the indelible registration of the provision of traffic and location data in cases of life and body protection, as regards the tracing of malicious or the competent parties to the communication referred to in Article 160 of the Rules of Procedure. It is said that this case is regulated in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court and it is difficult to claim at this point that the proposal does not make any progress. After my assessment, it's quite concrete progress. There has been a lot of talk about what the former Director has done wrong, and in this regard, the law has also systematically introduced significant improvements, such as "candidates for the Director and a member of the Board of the Agency are obliged to make a statement to reveal their links and interests which could be affected by the decisions of the Agency". Further, “in order to prevent potential conflicts of interest, the irreconcilability of the functions of the Director and his deputies with their other activities shall be extended to the prohibition of business cooperation with natural or legal persons engaged in activities in the field under the responsibility of the Agency. Membership in the administrative and supervisory bodies of legal persons engaged in business with natural or legal persons carrying out activities in the field under the responsibility of the Agency and holding the ownership shares of such legal persons.” So, the director should not have ownership in companies of some interest, and it may be suspected here that he has been contaminated, should not sit in the administrative and supervisory bodies of these persons, who might have a certain interest, which would conflict with his function, so that he should not cooperate with these natural and legal persons, and here the law seems to me that this potential spectrum of abuse or potential abuse of any director who would lead the agency is greatly expanded. Next, about the world. The Council of the Agency is given greater powers and, of course, this improved supervision. It monitors the implementation of the work programme and the financial plan, following a new one. It is therefore important to stress here that the Council of the Agency no longer merely issues opinions on the work programme and the financial plan, but accepts it. We have further heard that the Agency will also have to present at least a three-year regulatory strategy. All of these are concrete improvements that reduce the possibility of potential abuses and bad practices that have occurred in the past, so that the law will be declared bad at first, to appeal to coalition now, to dramatize, to call for understanding and so on, I think – exaggeration. Certainly, the law in the first reading, as I mentioned, is a possibility of improvement, these comments concerning local communities seem very on the spot and will certainly have to be considered seriously and taken into account in the next process of adopting the law. However, it is necessary to acknowledge the law-makers that they have taken seriously all the weaknesses that have been shown so far in the implementation of previous versions of the law and, in my opinion, it is a step forward and I believe that we will, of course, get a good or a law that will meet all the challenges that the development of modern technology poses. It is important to stress all the possibilities for public infrastructure or infrastructure in the public interest to be updated in a transparent way in order to ensure synergies between all stakeholders and all those interested in participating in this area. Thus, the overall assessment at this time is positive, with this addition, that certain improvements can, of course, still be discussed further, but with arguments and very concrete arguments. When it comes to this, for example, that there have been some subjugation of various lobbyists, it would certainly be expected that those who speak about it would specifically tell which lobby affected whom, and not least, that it would also be made public. It is also self-evident that if he knows something about this, he will inform law enforcement authorities or judicial authorities, which will also, of course, sanction these illegal lobbying influences. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u43	Replica mags. Branko Grimes. Okay. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, I'll give you a head start.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Now I'm gonna try to be really quick. Political speech, and respectable Matić, we are a political body. If you are an expert public in all areas – okay, let's leave it. But everything I've been saying, I've been talking about what the professional public says. I have made it clear that this is a problem for the SEK and that those working in the field of expertise have not been able to give their separate opinions further because they have been hampered. And don't say everything's fine. Secondly, it will be difficult to say that it is just some political pamphlets when we talk about the neglected and ignored local community. You don't care about it because you want to centralize the country; it is very important to us and it is also very important that each part of Slovenia is developed and has this accessibility. Don't turn around like that and don't talk about what I didn't talk about. I spoke exactly between SEK and AKOS, and now you're adding something third because you have, I know, a lot of interest, but here's the problem. And that is what the professional public, who operates in these organs, warns. It works in these organs! And the Director's will remains also after this bill and it is of great interest to someone to remain so.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u45	Mag. Branko Grimes, did you want to? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u46	Of course, it is a matter of respect for the constitutional decision and the legal void it created. Sometimes it's just fun to watch some respected coalition MP act like a happy kid in a sandbox, and he's playing a little bit, and he's happy. But unfortunately, these things are much more complicated than the sandstone. The article that you mentioned, as if it is now fully regulated by this problem that I was talking about, actually regulates the anonymisation of data; that is to say, it further protects human rights, and the problem that I was talking about, of course, is not completely addressed. This is a difficult matter for you, which was then also linked to a directive of the European Union, which was then also repealed, and it is an area which, due to constitutional sensitivity, needs to be very precisely and very well regulated in Slovenian legislation if we are to avoid the harmful consequences that I have discussed and, of course, this article does not accidentally regulate it in this way. Here we will have to take this very seriously and prepare an expert proposal, which, unfortunately, is not yet in this existing material. But it's been three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u47	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will be given the floor by a representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration. Mag. Tanya Rich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Thank you for the debate. It has highlighted the importance of appropriate legislation in this area, and for this we are also trying to address the problems we face in practice. I believe that the next legislative process is indeed an opportunity where we can further face different aspects, additional arguments and possible improvements to the legislative proposal. However, what I would like to do in this contribution is that some of the content has been exposed, which I would still like to comment on, may be explained. What was said from the point of view of why the novels of the law, why not the new marriage and not the promises themselves, that ZEKOM-2 will also come to pass. In this part, however, we are going through an intensive process at European level and it is also starting or considering the preparation of a new EU package on this work, the EU's electronic communications code will come up, and this part is in some way also a context when it is also prepared by ZEKom-2, and the shortcomings that we have now in the system may be addressed, so that we can further reward it. [[…]] While we believe that we are addressing ZEK-1, we are not changing the existing concept, but we are improving what has in practice proved to be flawed and not least what has been recommended and have also been exposed by some to the Council for Electronic Communications of the National Assembly. We believe that we have addressed these recommendations with a proposal for a law that we believe that powers are now more clearly defined, including the relationship between the authorities and the working bodies. It is important to point out what may not have been so clear from the debate, to add competence and to define more clearly the tasks performed by the Director, the relationship to the Board of the Agency, which is the supervisory authority, and then to the Council for Electronic Communications, which is the consultative body of the National Assembly. In this part, we believe that we have been addressed appropriately, of course, following the discussion, it is open that we should improve the dictatorship if this is not the case if it is not understood, but our purpose is precisely in this direction. I would also like to point out that we are also working in parallel at the Ministry of Public Administration also at the starting point for a systematic overhaul of the field of public agencies, where it is also important to address what the Court of Auditors has pointed out in the revision that certain segments should be uniformised in public agencies and, of course, individual specifics in particular areas apply. In this area, too, it appears, but this is not true that certain content and elements cannot be uniformised, and that is why I also stress that we wanted to address it, and we believe that it is appropriate. Of course, as we say, below, we are open to improving this. What has also been exposed; this management control part, the system of supervision in this area, as I have previously stressed. ACOS is an independent agency and we want to maintain this part of independence, which does not mean that we are not trying to improve the system in order to actually carry out the tasks that have set it up. The border is not fixed, so we would say, even hard to determine by the letter that then in practice there would be no problems, but we are also open here to improve this part as well. Which has also been demonstrated that one interest or some of the proposed solutions may prevail. This is what so much consultation has been aimed at. Not only was the consultation held at the public hearing in 2014, but in the middle of 2016 it was repeated, then also the presentations, such as at the Chamber of Commerce in September, even at the various round tables in December, that a new bill was published, where we also received different proposals, comments and definitions. A bill was also sent to the municipalities. Two comments were made; one was linked to exceptions to the publication of the envisaged constructions and we agreed to a greater extent on this exception and one was on the payment of the service. This is also how we feel, and we see no reason to eliminate them. Finally, our ministry is also a mediator to local self-government, so we estimate that we have just included them and that we will not rule them out with any of these solutions. We can, of course, also improve dictions below. This consultation, too, has been exposed to these ten pages as if this is a problem. We see them as welcome. We also wanted to address in this part what, last of all, is required of us by the Resolution on Regulatory Activities to show a legislative trail. In this part, we feel that we have done very well to show what has been exposed. We also believe that in this way we encourage the exchange of expert opinions or different opinions of arguments; and, on the contrary, we did not want to hide this, to hide it, to address it in a flat-rate manner, so that we also consider this part to be a good basis, working material even further, so that we do not repeat one thing, but perhaps we can only address it further and more appropriately. What was further exposed to the preservation of the Constitutional Court's decision. The fact is that we have been looking for a solution for a long time, operationally, which would be in line with what was and the decision of the Constitutional Court has been sent and so has the European Court. Not only do we have problems in Slovenia, but we also have other EU Member States and at European level we are looking for a solution to the so-called "date retention" and some other solutions, but we are all in a time-consuming situation because we want to provide an operational solution that is acceptable. Those who have now been available or have come to the point of expertise have been too restrictive or would not have been satisfied with these arguments, not least of all, or the objectives that have been exposed by Mr Grims. Thus, the procedure is effective and in fact what is meant to respect the rights of all and not to interfere with privacy. Which has also been previously exposed, and in the middle of the debate on digitisation, about the activities of our ministry. We are working to improve the situation in the field of digitisation, including digital equipment, access to electronic services and user value. We do not claim that all indicators are excellent, but we also find that there is a lot of potential and we want to speed it up with our activities as well. Thus, perhaps, if more specific discussions are to be held on committees, we will also explain what activities these are, because the law also needs to be read with other instruments to see how we manage the area and what policy we have in this area and what objectives we are pursuing. As a matter of fact, thank you for your initiatives. In what way do you see the improvement of the bill as well, and we believe that this is really a place to continue the legislative process and then we will actively cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u49	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing yes. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If she also wants to discuss the Government's representative, please also sign in by pressing the microphone key. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, also for this encouragement that you are willing to listen to what we say or what the professional public finds missing and what is essential in this bill, and this is the distinction between these authorities. You have, of course, mentioned that they are all adding more concrete tasks to the Director. I told you before that I think it's a very important area, that it's a unicorn. In order for some kind of collective body here to be more likely to be needed. Also because he has powers, and also because he decides on very important matters, and he also warns the professional public. So there won't be a misunderstanding. With regard to the integration of the professional and interested public as a whole – this was invoked before or when the bill was in the draft, it is also written on your 19th page, so these are your documents. I simply pointed out that after you had gathered all this together, when you received it, of course – and I commended that it was stated that how many different opinions, suggestions, concerns had come up – that it would be possible at the end, when this proposal was prepared, to make another consultation of the entire professional public. That's what we're proposing. The question is that someone pulls something together, which he thinks is appropriate in a given situation, and the question is whether these are the best solutions. Surely it would be good to hear all those who are working in this field. No matter what you say, we're late, but we've been late for a year or so. So I think if it's a month or so longer, it won't be a problem if we come up with a final better proposal. I wasn't talking about you not informing the local communities, but they're exempt from the law, that's essential. Some powers should be maintained, including with regard to local communities, because they must have a word on these matters. It's not that some things have not been informed. The question is also how much they were able to answer professionally at that time or how things were presented to them. We can all agree that there are changes to the law. Look, these are changes to the law. Once in the past, when there was another government, Justice Minister Klemenčič kept saying how laws must change, some general debates and how transparent they must be. Look, these are changes, they're for a new marriage. This is so much that they actually need to be in addition to experts if they want local communities and all those stakeholders to understand this. It is difficult matter – and you are right – difficult and also very developing matter. I really call for this, and I hope that some improvements will take place in the next debate when the hearing takes place on the parental boards, because it is worth it, regardless of the fact that this is the law, and that you have said that this is an implementation and that a new law will be drawn up. One more thing. I didn't get an answer, because the Directorate said we had so-called quick access already arranged. No analysis, no effects. Where are we? We didn't get an answer from you today and neither did the professional public. Who, then, gives the wrong information in this country? Do we have that or don't we have that? Do we have an analysis or don't we have it? We are changing the law to some other analysis where we say that we already have these things implemented – we do not! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u51	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! In the core of understanding our constitutional regime, it is at least wrong to say that the Ministry is an intermediary to local self-government. We don't have a hierarchy here where the chief executive tells the administrators on the ground what his will is to happen. We have local self-government; self-government, which is at least – if it is not already a will in Ljubljana, to understand that self-government means that in some territory, in the principle of subsidiarity in the maximum possible part, you manage and decide at the will of people – that it is understood that this is not a system of delegation. Personally, it bothers me very much. And that we have told the congregations because you will be able to cooperate, because it will be good I think – no! [[…]] We did not cooperate; we decided and made our own decisions! Under point A. Thank you, but I didn't get an answer about neutrality. I didn't expect to get it. Under point C. What about the relationship between providers, users, between corporations, open codification? Have you completely overheard this part of my debate? I absolutely agree, Secretary of State, that the law must be read with the instruments you are developing, with the measures you are financing, with the policies you are implementing. But I don't know, maybe someone else remembers, I didn't hear them explain and list them, so they enlightened us in our darkness here, what's going on. You have 52 minutes left. If I were mean, I would think it was tactful that now that we can't give them anymore, they would have walked, while, honourable Vice-President, I would gladly make an exception to the Government's return 52 minutes and to mention to us what we must understand and know in deciding on such an important law. 53 agenda items, if I'm not mistaken, are in this session. And clearly, we're going through legislation, and we're going to count on support and we're going to be able to face arguments here on the platform, we're going to have to make decisions. And I want to uphold the law. I know it's a necessary law, I know we're missing an entire term of office with this law, but not short, as usual, but the entire four-year term. But now you leave me under the impression that the law in the core is written for operators, and for providers on the side of large corporations, you leave under the impression that there is no legal security for people, you leave under the impression that the intention is inherently defined neutrality, the democraticness of the Internet, and you leave under the impression that the executive authority in Ljubljana understands local self-government as a channel that is communicated to him as a media, it informs. I can't support marriage like this. But since I believe that we may not be able to understand in the process work whether or not we understand the role of this congregation, at some point we may be misinterpreting what you want or do not want to say, I will support the law in the first reading in order for it to come to the committee. And I will support if the proposal is made; if not, I will give it myself for a public presentation of opinions, because we need to hear because we need to talk. And at least what it is, I expect the relationship to the user to change to local self-government. Because only by delegating tasks and commitments – I would not like to open up what happened to the white and gray foxes in the latest calls for funding broadband from European funds. There, however, the municipalities are to blame when the official part says yes, because we have made some changes in the tenders in the meantime, but the sanction will be 100% for local self-government. You're just gonna pay for it, god damn it. But the standard of kindergarten will wait, and there's something else. I apologize for being like a coalition nervous, but you're not giving me another reason. Well, thanks for the six-minute explanation!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u53	This also concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on amendments to the law on road traffic laws. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u54	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! In addition to the question of how some are allowed - first-class, of course - in this country, the recent disaster, the environmental disaster at Vrhnika, has raised another fundamental issue in this country, which should care for everything today and be the central thread of this debate; that there are people, firefighters who carry their lives and their health for sale in order to protect everyone else in the pursuit of their noble mission. And it's about them today. Because their work is a self-sacrifice for others, it is right to provide them with all the conditions that they themselves, as well as for all others when it comes to their work and the performance of their mission, make it possible for them to carry out their tasks as effectively and at the same time as possible. The proposal before you is linked to their arrival at work. You know we separate firefighters into eight categories. In doing so, it takes only one minute for the activation of the individual category in professionals or five minutes for the central or third, fourth and fifth categories; at the first fifteen, which is also extremely short, if you think about it, at the second ten minutes. This is the time when they must gather and go to work or work — to help others. When they respond to the call for help, of course, they rush because of the limitations I have been talking about today and because of their awareness that they want to help those who need help as soon as possible. This has also resulted in very serious traffic accidents, unfortunately, and of course they will. Therefore, in the SDS we propose to take into account the proposal made by the firefighters themselves, this proposal did not come from within the SDS, but came from a number of firefighters who asked us for help to enable them to have the same conditions as, say, firefighters in Austria and in other areas of the former Austro-Hungarian or German area, where this tradition is mainly voluntary firefighting or similar firefighting structures as in Slovenia, traditional and has common historical foundations. There, of course, they have the right to use a special sign when they go to a meeting place. With the use of the blue light, the rights we give with this bill and the corresponding sound signals, all participants in the transport would therefore draw attention to their urgent driving, which would mean greater security for them and greater security for other road users. In addition, this would allow them to travel faster to the collection site and thus shorten the time to start them from the collecting point, along with fire trucks and appropriate equipment, to help everyone else. From the point of view of assistance and security, there are therefore three key points: greater security for firefighters themselves, and for firefighters, greater security for other road users who would know what is going on, that someone is on an emergency journey and is in a hurry, and greater security for all those in need of assistance, that is, intervention by the fire department. In order to avoid abuse, we have foreseen, as our northern neighbours do, to regulate all the conditions that we should meet in this regard. In addition, anyone who uses this module should receive appropriate education. Only then would we give him an appropriate certificate for the time when he would be in this place. Because in order for the matter not to be too wide-armed, we've tied it all up to a municipal alarm plan. It is said that only those who are eligible under this plan, the first, which would be decided by the Fire Commander, would be entitled to do so. This could be done by tying the GPS module to the module module. If he were involved, then it would be accurate to know who and where he was going, which would prevent any abuse, and, on the other hand, it would be an advantage for the commander, since he would know how close his firefighters were all the time. Regrettably, the government here has given a shameful opinion to firefire, which then pushes everything, from the army to what, of course, the activation procedures are going completely different, and completely rejected the matter, obviously out of political prestige. I truly regret that. It's firefighters, ladies and gentlemen. For safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u55	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a law on amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Jozet Tank to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law proposes that the blue light and sound signal be used by firefighters of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth categories who perform fire service in firefighting units, using their personal vehicles on their way to the fire department when called for intervention. Candidates for the use of the blue lamp and siren would be appointed by the Commander of the fire liaison of the municipality on the basis of the municipal alarm plan. The latter would also issue, within 8 days, a written authorisation for the use of the blue lamp and siren, after the course has been completed. This would allow the use of a blue light with a siren to all fire extinguishers of all units, in order to respond as quickly, safely and effectively as possible to the call. The Act in force on road traffic rules in Article 101, paragraph 1, provides that vehicles with the advantage and accompanying vehicles shall be motor vehicles on which special light and sound signals, signs, are used to perform certain emergency tasks. Vehicles with an advantage to which it is permitted to install devices for the provision of special light and audible signs indicating vehicles with an advantage and in some cases the use of special light and audible signs on vehicles with an advantage shall be permitted, and shall be subject to the provisions of the fourth indent of Article 11(1) of the Law, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Therefore, the proposer of the Complementary Act on Road Traffic Rules wants certain vehicles to be designated by law with the advantage of installing devices for the provision of special lighting and sound signs indicating vehicles with an advantage. So the personal vehicles of firefighters first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth categories used by firefighters on their way to the unit when called for intervention. Other vehicles with an advantage to which it is permitted to install devices for the provision of special lighting and sound signs indicating vehicles with an advantage shall remain defined in a sub-legislative regulation issued by the Minister responsible for Transport in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. The implementation of the proposed regulation, a two-track regime, would constitute a breach of the principle of certainty in the drafting of regulations, as the principle of certainty requires the preparation of generally understandable and clear rules, which ensures legal certainty, trust in law and equality before law and prevents the different interpretation or application of rules in practice. In addition to that proposal, the law does not address the relevant issues on which the proposed regulation affects; for example, the determination of the reasons and conditions for the withdrawal of the authorisation, the composition of the course for users of the blue lamp, the coverage of the costs of carrying out the individual vehicle authorisation procedure and the upgrading of the vehicle, liability for damage in the event of a traffic accident, the determination of the financial consequences of the bill. In view of the number of possible users, we are talking about firefighters of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth categories who perform both voluntary and professional fire-fighting services in fire-fighting units, creating significantly more opportunities for abuse of vehicles with an advantage and thus having a negative impact on the safety of all road users. We must be aware that we have around 117 000 firefighters in Slovenia in this honour activity, which would, in fact, have granted this right to their personal vehicles, somehow amount to up to 10% of Slovenia's rolling stock has an advantage in transport, which is extremely large. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the first-signed Joze Tank and considers that it is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u57	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u58	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act proposes a solution allowing the use of a blue light and a sound signal for voluntary firefighters or voluntary firefighters using their personal vehicles on their way to the unit when called for intervention. In accordance with the current regulation, however, devices for giving specific lighting and sound signals indicating vehicles with an advantage may only be used in the vehicle rules with the advantage of specified vehicles, including fire extinguishers. The opinion on whether the above warning signals should also be made available to voluntary firefighters in passenger vehicles is shared and, from the point of view of the expert point of view, it presupposes that such a measure is not appropriate or even more that it may be harmful in terms of safety. It is important to be aware that voluntary firefighting is very developed in Slovenia compared to other countries. According to the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, there are about 132 000 members of voluntary fire companies. Of this, there are some 60,000 active firefighters and 133 000 of all members of voluntary firefighters. Compared to the number of professional firefighters who are around 860 and mentioned numbers, it can be imagined that the solution proposed to enable the use of blue light and sound signal also for voluntary firefighters or voluntary firefighters using their personal vehicles on their way to the unit would be a significant increase in the number of vehicles with an advantage. The latter may have a negative impact on the safety of road users. In addition, it is not negligible that as many as a quarter of voluntary firefighters under 19 years of age would be given the power to drive under special, substantially more risky conditions when proposed amendments are made as young drivers. In addition, the proposal for a law is also technically flawed as it opens up a legal void with regard to the rules and conditions for the authorisation and in the proposal for additional education for the use of the intervention light in passenger vehicles. The contents which are regulated in the Regulation after the applicable road safety regime are complemented and the proposed amendment is therefore not in accordance with the applicable regulation. A number of outstanding questions are also raised regarding the proposed solution, such as how long is it granted to the fire extinguisher to use this intervention light, when can it be withdrawn, who can take the course, who will cover the vehicle upgrade costs, how will the insurance of these vehicles, which are subject to greater risk and so on. Given that the proposed solution covers a large number of firefighters, this would significantly increase the number of vehicles with an advantage, which would have a negative impact on the safety of road users. For these reasons, in particular because of the proposed solution to reduce road safety, we do not consider that it is appropriate for further consideration in the Contingent Group of the Modern Centre for this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u59	Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the law shall not derogate from the principles and arrangements governing the scope of road traffic rules, powers and sanctions. It shall also not deviate from the arrangements governing the use of blue lights and sound signals. The law follows the principle of greater protection of human security and property. The purpose of the law is to adapt the use of the blue light and the sound signal for voluntary firefighters or voluntary fire brigades using their personal vehicles on their way to the unit and when called for intervention. The bill proposes to supplement the provisions of the law governing the scope of road traffic rules, powers and sanctions by laying down the basis for the use of blue lights and sound signals by firefighters from the first to the eighth categories of firefighters in firefighting units, using their personal vehicles on their way to the fire department when they are called for intervention. The candidates for the use of the blue lamp together with the siren shall be appointed by the Commander of the firehouse of the municipality on the basis of a municipal alarm plan, which shall be issued within eight days at the latest with the Siren. The contents of the course for users of the blue lamp, together with the siren, shall be determined by the Minister responsible for transport in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. This would allow the use of the blue lamp to all firefighters of all units, when called for intervention, in order to respond as quickly, safely and effectively as possible to the call, provided that they have the written authority of the commander of the fire liaison of the municipality and on the basis of the municipal alarm plan and the course completed. The candidate should also take a course in the use of the blue light or blue module on passenger vehicles. After the course, the candidate would receive a marked light and sound device and a document or permit to use the code with his name ID. The module is not attached to the vehicle, it's connected to the person. The misuse of the use of the blue module would be subject to sanctions under the current regime. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to support this complement with a view to greater security, which is widely implemented by firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u61	Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! We have before us the first consideration of the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act. It is proposed that the blue light and sound signal be used by firefighters from the first to the eighth category, who perform fire service in fire department units. A blue light and sound signal would be used in their personal vehicles on their way to the fire department when called for intervention. Candidates for the use of the blue lamp and siren would be appointed by the Commander of the firehouse of the municipality on the basis of the municipal alarm plan and, after the course, they would be given written authorization to use the blue light and siren no later than eight days. Members and Members of the Desus Group understand the intention of the proposer to allow all firefighters of all units to respond to the call as quickly, safely and effectively as possible. However, in our Group of Members, we join the Government's view that the proposed provisions introduce the solutions already contained in the Rules into the law. Therefore, we also believe that the proposed novelty is not in line with the rules in force and, as such, is not suitable for further consideration. During our review of the novel, many more practical questions have been raised, such as who will conduct courses for the use of the blue light on passenger vehicles and how this course will be carried out in concrete terms. It is clear that driving prefers to require certain additional knowledge and skills of drivers, especially from the point of view of safe driving, and we are therefore wondering whether these candidates would also take a special safe driving course. It is logical that personal vehicles should be converted by installing blue lights and sirens on them, so here is the question of whose costs will it be that such upgraded vehicles will also have to be approved. It also raises the question of the duration of the authorisation granted by the firefighter for driving with blue lights and siren, as well as the possibility of withdrawing that authorisation. We cannot go beyond the issue of compulsory insurance for such passenger vehicles, especially in terms of the level of the insurance price and the payment of damage in the event of a possible accident of such a vehicle with an increasing advantage. Also as to the number of possible users, we ask ourselves whether the number of allowances granted will be limited, since, according to all the categories listed, the proposed solution covers virtually all firefighters, voluntary and professional. This would, according to our assessment, bring a substantial increase in the number of vehicles with an advantage, and thus provide more opportunities for abuse in driving vehicles with an advantage. As it is said, in the Desus Group, we understand and support the proposal's good intention to enable firefighters to react as quickly and safely as possible when they intervene, but the proposal leaves too many outstanding questions open to them, so we will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u63	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The issue of ensuring the safety and proper position of voluntary and professional firefighters in the Republic of Slovenia is, in some ways, always present and the speedy is the basic intention of any serious political party or authority, including the opposition, it is understood that this situation is one of the most massive if not the most mass-organised structure in the important protection and resolution segment to be regulated as well as possible and for the greatest benefit of those who are part of this system, i.e. firefighters. Not only in this mandate, but also in the past, we often encounter disagreements, which may be more or less understandable within the firefighting structure itself, usually among professional and voluntary firefighters, who do not necessarily with the same objectives, they often understand what is most important within the firefighting system, and what the state should do. In assessing the support of this law, there is in some ways the least important relationship between the law and the rule of law, although this cannot be ignored. It is a fundamental question of how this regulation will affect traffic safety and whether the need to comply with road traffic regulations, signalling, speed limits will exclude some 60,000 people, and roads will be more or less safe. Are we going to have more chaos or less? Will vehicles with a primary priority, i.e. professional firefighters, police officers, emergency drivers, still receive absolute traffic attention, or could massification actually endanger those who use the blue light, as well as those to whom this blue light and advantage is intended to be addressed? And that's the only serious decision this congregation has to make. And if we are already faced with closed corridors often with advantage, then we are rightly afraid and ask whether, with the already known ignorant of the blue light, massification would contribute to the security of the latter. We are afraid that no, and we are afraid that a substantial increase in the number of road users' exemption from road traffic rules would actually have the opposite effect. We can understand the desire of voluntary firefighters and understand it; we can understand the proposaler's move; unfortunately, we need to assess it as a move that would in fact bring less security and in some ways only cause many other groups to want the same right within the protection and rescue structure, not to say privileges, because it is not because they are doing an extremely important job and are risking their lives daily. However, we would come to a point that we do not want, as is customary in Moscow, when blue lights flood for everyone who can or can be abused or bought, to end up people driving through roads with children's buckets on the roofs in a sign of non-compliance with the fact that the rules apply to all equally. And if road traffic rules in good faith and understanding to whom, why and when the advantage is intended, are all taken into account, then even firefighters on the way to the firehouse will not be prevented, but due to the reasonable limitations of speed, some life will be resolved and any more intervention prevented. Therefore, we will not support the Social Democrats in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u65	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The law, which we have already heard, provides for a simple solution so that all firefighters, voluntary and professional, can use blue lights and sirens. The applicant's opinion is that this is necessary in order to shorten the time of arrival of firefighters to the fire extinguishers in the event of an alarm. Furthermore, candidates for the use of these signals should take a special course to be prescribed by the competent minister. Such candidates would be, if we count all volunteer and professional firefighters, about 60,000. Sixty thousand passenger cars on roads with blue lights and sirens. This means, on the one hand, a great deal of potential abuse of these blue lights and sirens, and consequently an increase in the possibility of accidents resulting from the use of this signalling. While there is no mention in the bill that there would be a case where firefighters, because they do not have blue lights, do not come to the point of intervention in time to put their lives at risk and, therefore, firefighters would not have an easy way into the fire department. It is said that these bright lights would make a significant contribution to shortening the time of arrival for fire brigades. For this reason, we believe in the United Left that the wide, wide expansion of vehicles on which such devices, special lighting and sound warning devices may be used is inappropriate and unfounded. For these reasons and probably because there are other ways to speed up – I think my colleague Škoberne has made it clear that compliance with the road rules of all would be equally rapid – we will vote against this law in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u67	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u68	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! When I listen to this, I hope the firefighters don't listen. When my colleague told me how children with blue lights are going to drive, I'm sure I'm the fireman myself, that as childish as you are discussing this subject, no one behaves. Do you even know what you're talking about? Fire safety is the responsibility of the municipality, the mayor is responsible. The mayor has a signed contract with voluntary firefighters to carry out fire safety, except where the reaction time of professional firefighters is less than 15 minutes. There, however, municipalities or mayors also have contracts signed with professional firefighters. Those are the rules. Intervention time depends on how fast the firefighters get to the firehouse, change, take the equipment, and go to the intervention. No volunteer firefighter is on duty in a firehouse or in a firehouse; or very rare. And here to talk about how irresponsible it's going to be that they're under 19 years old, and they're going to have a blue light. [[…]] Every firefighter who's an operative is trained as a soldier, at least as many as can be known. And that he is not trusted to go with the blue light, and these operative firefighters are precisely determined by the fire companies whose category is some kind of fire company. I had a case of a neighbor in the village burning when I was driving as the mayor behind a car where the driver was on the phone, and I don't know if he was driving to the other. And I didn't know which building was on fire, mine or the neighbors. It's just operational firefighters who should have this with all their responsibility. You don't have to prepare, I don't know what kind of cars if you don't watch any movies to open the bar and plug in the wire, magnetic light to get on the roof and go like kids talking. [[..]] In our view, this should be the case with operational firefighters; it is precisely what they are, the list, the congregation has. Blue light may be used during intervention. The fire department is alerting the fire department, and that's when the fire department goes into action. Not only operational, others are coming, but others are not qualified. In our case, if the firefighters hadn't arrived in time with the breathing apparatus, I wouldn't know how many animals died because you can't without the breathing apparatus in the barn. And these firefighters should have the advantage of getting here in time. We don't have any evidence that the fireman didn't arrive in time for the intervention. What's that?Oh, my God! That's what the United Left says. What does it mean to come to the intervention in time?Oh, my God! You're never in time. If you're there, you're on time when it burns when it starts to burn. I don't understand. We are talking about firefighters who are most trusted by people in Slovenia. But we speak to Members who are least trusted by people. And we can be so mature that we know what's right or wrong. I've been a member of a fire company for over 30 years, a small fire company that has just over 100 firefighters, operational firefighters may be 15, although according to their status, they also have a concession for a highway because it goes through because they are closest. [[…]] Equipment must be provided by the municipality. The country could also provide something if we have how many accidents we have on the highway, where the minutes depend on whether or not a person will survive. [[…]] You don't have to come with a truck, if it's a car, you can come with one car and offer help because you're qualified. Maybe I'm even more allergic because I know and as mayor I've been to a lot of interventions, because I've been briefed on every fire and I've gone to the fire to get better organized and to know what the firefighters need from the technique. If anyone doesn't believe, I invite a fire company or in July to the Beljak Olympics, where they will perform as a representative of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u69	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. He has the word as the first Mr. Marko Ferruga. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and co-workers! My predecessor has been very generously announcing how we are scoundrels and ugly and how we don't like firefighters and we don't know how to take this into account. But I, my dear fellow workers, wonder where you've been for 25 years?Oh, my God! Now, right now, 24. 5. 2017 came a sudden need, suddenly that all the lights must have and all must shine, 60,000 lights and sirens must be; because so far they have all been obstructed and not all gone. I find this kind of debate unacceptable. I agree, and I don't think there's any of us here who don't have much respect for firefighters and their work. This proposal may be interesting, but I think it's a matter for professional services to work better. But according to the government’s opinion, which is likely to be familiar with something, this proposal somehow cannot come. It is true that firefighters must get to the centre as soon as possible, change and then go, respond quickly to emergency calls and then go to intervention. But all the more so, as a particular matter, I think this very nice, very nice proposal and one of the great concerns of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is one great goodness to help. So far they also had an opportunity because they were “ablasting” and had the opportunity to change that. And I think that even then the firefighters were in a hurry to intervene, as they're probably in a hurry every time that's needed. But only now this has come, somehow matured, and it's unusual. But that's okay, too. We know for ourselves how many volunteer firefighters there are, 60 grand. And it's probably 132 grand of everyone who's listed. Secondly, perhaps this solution could also be applied to mountain work, police officers, criminals, city directors, Dars, possibly also to municipal service and so on. Does this marriage save anything? This law may raise further questions, and if you'll excuse me, I'll read them. Will the insurance company increase the cost of insurance to such a passenger car and to the insurer in the event of a higher risk? Maybe. Or not. Who will pay the costs of carrying out the individual vehicle authorisation procedure, the vehicle upgrade costs, if necessary, of any specific technical checks? Will the amount of the annual levy on such vehicles used for private purposes be different? What will be the responsibility, or who will pay for the damage in the event of a car accident involving a fireman? That's also a question. Who will conduct the course for the use of the blue light on passenger cars? How is the course made up? How many hours does it take? How long before this fireman is granted that authority? In which cases may this authorisation be withdrawn? Under what conditions can other powers also be withdrawn? There's a lot of questions here. Whoever looked at these media releases may have responded to the portal, where they were given as proposals by the government, and if I quote them, some volunteers also write that they are against it. It is always kind of courteous and this is what Mr Škoberne probably said earlier, that there is always a rift between those who are professional firefighters who already have this arranged and then voluntary. There are a lot of these things here, but that's such a necessity to do it, and this is exactly this year, and I find it rather unusual. I think that this needs to be taken very seriously, but not so easily, because it is not a solution that leads to an improvement and efficiency. But it's an interesting idea from Mr Smurf who gave it to me. However, if the fire liaison and others see that this is to be proposed, I think that at the Ministry of Infrastructure and through the Office of Protection and Rescue they have the opportunity to trigger this in some professional way. When we start this politically, such as the Slovenian Democratic Party grabbed this idea, use it, then it always loses it on that reality as it might be. Far from not supporting firefighters, I don't think that's a solution that would lead to some kind of efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u71	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you again! I'd like to ask that the debates are worthy of fire. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, just look at the consequences of the last Vrhnika accident. Some red tycoon was unsupervised – I do not believe that no one in the government and bureaucracy knew what was in there – was allowed to store a thousand 500 tonnes in the middle of the settlement, if I am not mistaken, of extremely harmful substances, some of which have been strictly banned for over a decade. The consequences of the fire, no matter what the cause, were such that they would permanently mark and take away health, ladies and gentlemen, including some firefighters. And I ask you kindly, be worthy of the debates to the people, to the firefighters, to the firefighters, to all those who carry their health and life for sale, who are willing to do so and set themselves up to protect others. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned earlier — I regret not allowing the time — that the Government has given one disgraceful opinion, which you all now uncritically sum up. First of all, as far as the number of beneficiaries is concerned, which is your first statement. The law, as designed, is made as wide as possible to cover everything; but it does nothing to anyone. The law does not require that, as some of you have said, all those who are assigned to units, that is over 40,000, which this module must have; far from it. On the contrary, the law says, as we have prepared it, that the commander of the municipal fire union, not as he sees fit; but according to the alarm plan. This is said to be an extremely small number of people at the end who would be entitled to it. The law, as it is prepared, in no way repeals the other provisions of the remaining legislation. This is said if someone such as a beginner driver is not entitled to drive such a vehicle under general legislation, of course he cannot get it. This will be taken into account by the chairman of the congregation’s fire union when he determines who is entitled to do so. And he will take into account some of the material capabilities of firefighters. You don't need any car processing, I don't know where you got it from when you're missing any serious argument. It's a module that gets placed on the roof, magnets grab and ride with it, and everyone you've ever seen knows that well. Or there's a blue LED on the inside and then there's this pulse, and that's a variant. But this has nothing to do with any huge costs, ladies and gentlemen, far from it. Total perversion is also a question of what would happen in that rule and education. This education, as proposed by this law, would be prescribed by the Minister, the competent ministry, who would therefore decide who, where and when to do it and what the content is. And don't say it should be written in law. You know that's no way to write laws. The law is completely real. You know that, too, some of you who have already spoken here today that you promised to support this law in the first place, because it's firefighters. You know, this is a very important part of that protective body that cares about the safety of everyone else. Then, apparently, a political decision was made somewhere in the government, and the firefighters themselves told me that suddenly everyone began to change their minds. Earlier, they promised support, at a professional support association, and then they said - from the top down, from the ministry is pressure, and now we must not, we must give a negative opinion. This is said to be pure political prestige, but nothing else; you care about the safety of people, you care about the safety of firefighters, you are interested in political prestige, and there is nothing else in the game. And because you don't have any arguments, you're making such a big deal out of it that I'm embarrassed to listen to this. I just hope the firefighters are watching this so they can see what kind of government we have and what ruling coalition we have. You turned this completely unnecessary into a prestigious battle. I told everyone before, and I also told you in the introduction today, here, publicly, this is not a proposal or an idea that would have arisen somewhere in the Slovenian Democratic Party, so it is also a shameful mockery of that fellow who spoke earlier – why didn't you do it when you were in power. This idea, ladies and gentlemen, was created and matured in the Cranian Fire Department. Then a few months ago, they invited me to talk and presented this as an idea, and they said, "You're not the first, we've introduced it, and we've introduced it to the ministry, and to someone else. But there they said – We'll think about it once in a while. But we've already had accidents in the fire department, and we're afraid they'll be, even as bad as they were. We would like people to be protected, safe, firefighters and everyone else; and we think this is a good idea." And I said I thought so, too. And they said whether you would be willing to continue to put this in Parliament. I said we'd try. And we've done it, we've done it, and before we invest, I've talked to many of you, and you've all said it seems like a good idea. Until someone in the government decides that we won't let that happen out of political prestige, then what if the firemen die if they run into each other, if someone on the Bloodsucker flew off the road and killed himself in a tree, with tragic consequences. This is a real state, ladies and gentlemen, because those who are willing to set their lives for everyone else are also at risk because they are consciously going to do so. They are trying to be as quick as possible to help, even at the highest cost, at the cost of their health, as was the case in the Supreme; and as was the case when the floods occurred when the power surge occurred in Cerkljanski could even list these cases. These people are also about the safety of everyone else, because these people set their lives, their health for others. Therefore, this mockery afforded by the government, which you now uncritically repeat, is unacceptable, it is a disgrace to shame. This is a disgrace to all of us. I have no words to say where we came from in this country with such authority. And then you joke about who's gonna pay for any insurance. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, who's paying for it so far? Hello! Who's paying for it now?Oh, my God! Let this continue to be on the shoulders of these people alone; and if I am already carrying my health to sell, let them pay. That's your logic, because that's what it sounded like. If I translate this into Slovenian from your high-pitched words, which have a very circumstantial interest. Then what's the responsibility, what's the damage if there's an accident? Who's paying for it now?Oh, my God! What's the responsibility now?Oh, my God! Exactly the same is true, ladies and gentlemen, the difference is that the sign of the blue light would achieve two – that they themselves would give a signal that they are on an emergency ride; and that the remaining participants could clearly understand this from this. Not to think that someone, I don't know, because he's had too much to drink, is now wild on the road; but that he has an urgent ride because he goes to help others. To say that there will now be tens of thousands of vehicles, that is so rude that I have no words at all. How you must be so primitive when it comes to firefighters. You know exactly that it has been written that the right itself has been granted in accordance with the municipal activation plan, which means a very small number of licences granted in general, subject to all other prohibitions and restrictions, I stress once again, of course, which this law does not exclude. If, for a certain reason, someone does not have the right to obtain this, it will be taken into account when determining who may be entitled to it and then has to conduct a course and meet all the other conditions. And then how many of these uses are there going to be? These people aren't going to drive around every day for a beer with a blue light. I have also said that there is also a sanction in law for the misuse of the blue light, as is the case with everyone else. And it is possible to make this extremely simple and effective with modern technology, the use of the blue light module binds to the GPS, which then has its answeror or signal recorded in the center. And the unit commander would immediately see who was on his way, so he uses the blue light, which also activates the GPS signal. I would know where it is, which would also be additional protection and at the same time help it to activate the unit as successfully as possible. It is said that no abuse would be possible at all. And that would be an extremely small number. How many bad accidents there aren't many, thank God. And they would hit even more, so all of these options are foreseen, but when there are extreme disasters; but it happens, let's say there could be an earthquake and at the same time huge fires and so on. That's when they activate the whole shift in professional units. Others are still there. They're on duty. And then they have a limited time to come along. And just in that case, that's an exception, maybe, hopefully, once a hundred years would have happened, so that this module would have been used. Once again, this law does nothing for anyone to use, but allows. It only allows use when commanders determine that it is in the interest of the protection of firefighters, public protection and taking into account the municipal fire plan for the activation of units. Only they would have this, and only when it was really urgent, not for exercise, not for anything else; but if they were called for actual intervention when it comes to people's lives and security. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this debate, to put it mildly, is flattened. Therefore, this letter is the Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act, issued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 11.5., a government disgrace of the first category. And now all the other concerns you've had. What else did the government allow then to do in the end such a "gemist" in order to deal with criminals, soldiers, other security forces, and members of the special police unit, I don't know what else. You all know police officers have a special activation protocol. You all know that soldiers have a special activation protocol that includes multiple degrees. Depending on the degree that has been declared, people respond. This doesn't just happen with firefighters. It's not about five minutes that you have to come to the unit to help others, but it's completely different procedures. That's why they weren't caught here. In fact, there are two categories of which we have already been warned at this time that perhaps again with some restrictive restriction we could be covered. This is again that plan, in a similar way; these are mountain rescuers for cases where firefighters and mountain rescuers perform together in the event of serious accidents in such a field, and doctors when they are further called for because of some serious accident. These two categories could exceptionally be justified and could indeed be supplemented by this law. But of course this does not mean that there will be another 20,000 people, as you are embarrassingly loading here, a vehicle with a blue light in Slovenia. This is an exception to the exception, to a very small number of beneficiaries, and let us hope that it is extremely rare for this small number of beneficiaries to use it at all. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the essence of this law, and that is what this is really about. I simply do not understand that one such noble thing as firefighting, voluntary firefighting and professionals is possible to banalise and politicize in a way that the government has allowed, and, as it is now, uncritically summed up by the coalition. I don't understand that. The law, as it is written, is perfectly appropriate, is in accordance with the legal principles of our country and is restrictive enough to avoid any abuse in any case. Because once again, it allows this to be approved according to the plan only to a small number of people, it does not exclude all other legal provisions, it is said that if someone under other legal rules fails to do so, it cannot be obtained, of course it cannot be given. It can't happen. And all this beating of empty straw is the highest category you've ever talked about. And the third thing that you've all forgotten, that I started with, and I'm going to repeat it many times today, is that you're talking about the life and health of people. On the one hand, firefighters, those who, in carrying out their noble mission, set their health, their lives for all others; and on the other hand all those who are then exposed to various dangers on the road, firefighters themselves and other participants and those who are in need of assistance. But with such a government and with such a coalition, I think the whole of Slovenia will say a fireman's greeting – Help!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u73	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, honourable speakers! I regret that, at the beginning of this debate, there has been such an important issue about a storm. I can see that those who started the storm have just escaped, and I regret the second time that I cannot argue with them and argue with them in a reasoned manner. It's a very simple matter. Here you ask us a question – Where have you been for 25 years? This question is therefore intended for firefighters, as the proposaler made it clear that this initiative came from fire-fighting species. I'm glad Marko Ferruga joined. Where have you been for 25 years? Comrade Ferlug, ask the fire department. And that is why I appeal to my colleague Igor Zorčič, the chairman of the committee, to reach out in our parliamentary group, however, to bring this law to another reading; and in the second reading, there is an opportunity for us to try together to find answers to all the questions that you have raised mainly from the coalition here. Some are relevant and some are, excuse me, childish. That someone here is asking on behalf of the parliamentary group who will be carrying out education, how the blue light is now installed, whether the glaciers will be, whether it will be a rotational light or another light, who will be carrying out the education. Yes, my God. I don't know who's doing education for the use of a chemical pencil?Oh, my God! Please, not in such childish details. You're going to tell me I'm a populism. This is actually about protecting property and human life. This is the mission of the fire force. We have data from the Slovenian Fire Federation, unfortunately I do not have the latest data, but according to data from 2014, we have a thousand 348 voluntary firefighters within the fire brigade, about 155 thousand firefighters, about 60 thousand operatives. Some here have simulated the situation when 60,000 vehicles suddenly appear on our roads with blue lights. I hope we don't have a disaster when all the operatives are up. On the level of some congregation, yes. And here to my colleague Zvonko Lah to report pompousness in the position of the Group of Members is very low, it is very low. He was mayor of three jobs, signed contracts for the execution of a public fire service and knows the duties of the municipality to ensure fire safety and to ensure the equipment of fire brigades. Firefighters, operatives at some point when they're called up, as they say, by the regional information centre, are at work, they're in the field, they're, I don't know, anywhere and they know what to do. First they go to the firehouse. Looks like we should try to simulate it, because it seems like everyone doesn't understand it. Because there's their equipment, they don't have any equipment at home. Because they don't go home, but they go directly from work or from vacation or wherever they are, they go to a firehouse, there's equipment, everyone has their equipment, their breathing apparatus and so on. So it's probably very important, I'm sure it's very important what this reaction time is. Time is very important. Very important. Yeah, 25 years ago, there was no technology, and there were no so complex substances, if you like, there were no solar panels to know how to put out fires on the roof, where solar panels are installed. Technology is changing, and we must also allow firefighters to intervene as soon as possible. And please, let's make another thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u75	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Prepare Mr. Daniel Krivec and the Mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go, Lady Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you very much. There is nothing shameful about our debates. I would rather say that it is a shameful way in which you choose to gain political points — on firefighters. That's embarrassing. Really. I am very well aware that it is the duty of the congregation to provide fire safety for its municipality, to also provide firefighting equipment. I closely monitor how this is ensured in our congregation. It works flawlessly, irrespective of all the efforts that have been made, which in many cases are enormous, by the mayor, by the municipal council and by the most voluntary firefighters. It's an extraordinary effort. Commendation goes back and forth for these efforts to them and everyone. This is how to turn now, as if this is now a disgrace. Now I'll tell you what the firemen told me. I don't know which firefighters suggested this to you, but I do know that this proposal was already on the table in 2005, 2010 and so on. It's been on the table a number of times. This has been proposed several times and has never been passed. And I've been looking into different firefighters. There are 8 voluntary fire companies in our municipality with 13 000 500 inhabitants. Eight. And I turned to everything, and they said what I was about to say, no matter what the government said, no matter what you say. With all due respect, colleague Lah, if you're a firefighter, I respect you as much as anyone, but that's what the firefighters told me, first of all, it's a matter of distinction between a professional unit and a voluntary unit. And when we talk about a professional unit, we need to know that every shift has a sufficient number of firefighters who are there. So they don't need these blue lights because they're there. And in larger places where these professional units are, they don't call for interventions in principle, because they provide professional coverage 24 hours a day. And minimum export times are provided with existing firefighters on the unit. And here we are talking about Ljubljana, which has about 40 professional firefighters in turn, and then Celje and Maribor and the bigger cities that have these professional brigades. This time component in their case is not relevant at all. But then it's a relevant time component when we talk about volunteers. And when we talk about when the first export goes to an intervention that exports in minutes and goes with a siren and blue light, they also told me that the next exports, which go after 10 or 15 minutes, are no longer using this light and siren at all. It is said that these vehicles are no longer now, because then the reaction time is no longer so important. And now forward. How are volunteer firefighters organized? By joining in a voluntary fire company, those who live in a certain area are called a few streets away. I can tell you in particular, the export time of a voluntary fire company in Laska is 3 minutes. And there are eight of them in the congregation, I told you. And everyone's gravitating to their volunteer fire company. And there are 42 firefighters in this voluntary fire company who have invitations. Of these, there are 10 of them who live in the immediate vicinity. How long would a blue light get such a fireman who lives two blocks away at a three-minute intervention time? Let's look into each other's eyes and tell ourselves how much. And if you say these blue lights aren't going to get everyone, okay, not everybody will get it. Which one of those 42? You say not much. Okay. Two? What's the point? Five? What's the point? 20? Yeah, that's a lot. What happens when these 20 with the blue light suddenly go to the fire company and meet in such a small place, I don't know, just three of them at the same time at the same intersection? Who's gonna answer now if anything happens to them? And how many accidents have there really been since they were on their way to the firehouse? Who's got the stats? Can anyone tell me that number? When you drive and, say, watch other participants in traffic, how do other participants respond to vehicles with an advantage? How? Most of them don't. Terrified sometimes I find that some people just drive around like it's nothing. The others are panicking and retreating wherever they're going. How they will stay when they are on the vehicle — I mean, at a 10 - year - old car, which is a very common vehicle — they see a blue light and someone driving this blue light. How? What's that gonna do? I'm really wondering. You're talking about who's gonna pay for it, and it doesn't matter at all. Of course it's important. It's important who buys it, who approves it. And these vehicles, which are on emergency driving, also have some technical inspections for six months. Who's gonna cover this? How will insurance companies react immediately? What happens when this fireman sells his vehicle? What's gonna happen? He's gonna unmount it all out, buy himself a new one, and again on the new one I'm really hard to imagine, not because I wouldn't want to, but these were the dilemmas that the firefighters themselves told me. [[…]] In what way? As far as professional competence is concerned, colleague Lach also said something about the subject. It is currently in force that it is only a recommendation, recommended by the Association of Firefighters of Slovenia, that the persons driving these vehicles at the intervention exercise safe driving training and that the drivers are not beginners. Recommendation. But when you actually ask for voluntary fire companies, they say it's nothing special, except that the driver is not a beginner. So there is no special training for driving such a vehicle. And most of them have nothing but what I said was that he's an operative firefighter and he's got a two-year exam. It is therefore hard to imagine how now all those who receive these lights would be trained or protected from themselves, so to speak, if not from the rest of the participants. A few words also go to domino effect, which has already been mentioned today. Here I have to agree, this is what the firefighters themselves have pointed out — if they, then also the mountain rescue service, then also doctors, then also cave rescuers and so on. Where are we gonna stop here? I'm really wondering. Yeah, there are 50,000 operative firefighters, okay, not all of them, but for such a small congregation where, as I said before, five, ten at a time on the road with this blue light, that's the problem. It's a real problem. Even now, the state of road safety is worrying about us, even now. And I'm really afraid for these firefighters because of them themselves, but maybe not because of them themselves, but because of the other participants, as I said. There's one more thing I'd lean on here. In this proposal you have shown regulation in other legal systems, although I do not think you have it; I do not think that this proposal has it because what it says here is not a comparison. It says here that “it is also permitted to be used in fire vehicles”, yes, since we are talking about fire vehicles, firefighters, “intervention and on our way to intervention”. What's the difference? Fire trucks at the intervention and fire trucks en route to the intervention, I see no difference here. I see that this is a major fraud, both in Austria, Germany and also in Croatia, because the same sentence is used. I just don't see that difference. But I've been asking around. In Germany, they have different landscapes. Our firefighters say it would be great if it were arranged in the same way as in one of the countries where they have a yellow sign board — a fire extinguisher. The purpose of this table is only to be observed by others when they are followed and given a sign with long lights. And this board isn't fixed, but it's only used on an emergency ride. And they can't have a fire truck with them just anyone like us, but they have to have a special exam to drive a fire truck. In Bavaria, for example, they have a blue light, but this blue light does not mean any advantage, only means that they can exceed speed. But the Croats, you won't believe it, they didn't know anything about it, even though it says here that they have it. I don't know what the firefighters would really get with it. I know what you're trying to gain. I really don't think we're giving the firefighters anything else here, but we're opening up a lot of questions that I can't answer right now. I wonder why we would change something that we know works for us, even internationally comparatively, perfectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u77	Mr Zvonko Lah asked for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u78	My colleague, I do not allow you to teach me about firefighting because I was responsible for 13 years for fire safety in the municipality, signed contracts, purchased firefighter equipment and was at all major fires in the municipality. I don't need a blue light, now that I'm a fireman, but maybe as mayor yes, I'd add that to who's responsible. When you said he had three minutes to leave the firehouse. It doesn't matter when he left, but when he came to the fire. This is important. And I know the rules. We had with the construction of the highway connection reaction time, which we have also tried. Every year at a month of fire safety, we make an attempt. We alarm and see how long the firefighters reach a certain point in the congregation. And since we now have a good traffic connection, professional firefighters come sooner than in 15 minutes, we signed a contract with them. However, they cannot reach one congregation that is 30 kilometers away from professional firefighters or even more, but they have no real access to their roads, sooner than half an hour. And it is incumbent upon the mayor to organise and sign a contract with voluntary fire companies because they arrive substantially earlier. Not to mention there's so many firefighters and everyone's there. Also, a volunteer firefighter, if he lives only 10 metres from the firehouse, is not always at home. He probably won't have a spinning light on his ass when he goes home with his bike, so he can turn it on. I don't know where he's going to go back home, but he usually goes with his car. The rotation light, which is necessary, is €32. That's all the upgrades, and the little stick has an open door that goes in there to plug it in where it's for cigarettes or to charge a cell phone. It's all an upgrade. Training, I don't know. You ask a three-year-old kid, he'll know where to put it. That's all. The operative firefighters are supposed to have this, and that fire company has 8, not more than 15, and they need it because they're going to come to the fire first. That's all it's about. But that they could go beyond speed in Germany, and what's more, they'd move away, because they'd see a blue light. But people are quite cultural, and I drive around a lot, and I see. My procedural proposal is that you propose to all those who debate and embarrass the National Assembly and Members, some kind of fire safety course before they discuss in the National Assembly, that they do not embarrass us and the firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u79	Mr Lah, we'll probably both agree that this was just an abuse, because you've been discussing for three minutes. But we have another procedure. I would ask all of you to carry out this point for which we have been destined for an hour and a half to avoid such abuses. Mrs. Janja Sluga, you want the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u80	Yeah, I want to be procedural, because I don't know where my colleague Lach saw me teach him anything. Not at all. I told you before to tell me what the fire department told me. And yes, I agree that it matters when they come to the fire, and not so much when they're exported from the firehouse. But in the meantime, that's the difference. It is said that from the export from the firehouse until they arrive at the fire, that blue light in the passenger car will do them no good. That's what we're talking about. And it's embarrassing how you guys talk. I'm not going to repeat what you said, because I think it's embarrassing. I won't say it again. Nobody talked about how to plug a blue light into a plug. You've been listening very badly. We talked about how to stay safe with the blue light on the road. That's what we talked about, and that's what I was talking about. And at no time does it occur to me to teach you or any of the firefighters what's good for them and what's not. Everything I've talked about has come out of their mouths and these are their concerns, and I won't allow it either. President, please, if colleague Lach thinks that I am teaching him anything in my deliberations, please give him the opportunity to tell him what I wanted to teach him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u81	I will give you both a chance, but, Mrs Janja Sluga, let me also warn you, as I am the predecessor of Mr Lach, that this is an abuse. My proposal is that we wait for the time-sharing and both of you sign up, and you'll have both of them up to five minutes to discuss further. Representative of the proposer, Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you. This discussion by the lady from the Modern Centre Party was truly biblical. When you talk about these response times, you need to know that this is a completely different matter; and I would kindly ask if you would listen carefully when I present something. When I was talking about professional units, I said, in what exceptional case, which at that time is actually necessary that it can't be any more, it's the only thing that concerns them. When it comes to professional units, you know they're on call and therefore export time is usually one minute, up to one minute. In Kranj 30 seconds and less, which is a remarkable achievement. And this proposal came from them, once again, there was none of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the firefighters themselves gave it a few months ago, so I don't know where you've seen these proposals before, but it is. Now look. When it comes to reaction rates, it only applies to professional units that is not on duty at the time. If this is really an extremely big matter, I said earlier that maybe once every hundred years, let's hope, there's an accident of such magnitude that it calls for the rest of the change that's at home at that point. And then these people will come in at the shortest possible time, and only in that case would that be in their favor. And once again, this law does not require anyone to use it. When you put it in such a way that all those so close can come on foot and so forth; it is clear that they are not justified, as this follows from the law itself and probably from the common sense of the one who will decide as commander of the fire liaison on who has the right to this module. I trust people, I'm not like the ruling coalition that comes out, the last time we heard your client colleague that they were all frauds and that they needed to be monitored as much as possible. And I trust people, and I especially trust firefighters. Because if these people didn't have a heart, they wouldn't have that noble compassion in them, they wouldn't be firefighters. They set themselves, their bodies, their health, their future in order to protect the property of others, the lives of others, the safety and health of others. It's about them. And that's why they deserve all the respect. And to give an argument, as you have before, Mrs Sluga, that you do not give the firefighters the right to a blue light either in exceptional cases because of this, I quote you, “because it is already a bad culture of drivers and they do not respect those with the blue light as they should”; this is indeed an intellectual surplus, with all due respect. Therefore I said before that your discussion was purely Scriptural, for the Bible says, "Happy are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u83	Replica, Mrs. Janja Sluga. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u84	Mr Grimes, I hope that you will read the Bible several times and that you will remember something more from it, because from my discussion you are not very much. You turned everything around, you faked everything, and it didn't make any sense anymore what you were saying. I never said what you just said. Never. Please take a look. I'll do it again, all these arguments came from firefighters when I talked to them, because I'm in contact with them every day and we're working on the things they really need and they really need help with. And a lot of this has already been done, and I know them very well, and I know very well how they sacrifice themselves, how they sacrifice their leisure time, how they sacrifice their time with families, how they became the center of our society, how they became the center of things in smaller villages, how they raise their offspring with values that others should tolerate, in other areas. That's why I'm saying this thing works great. If they need help, they may need to do something else, but their own safety needs to be taken into account. And from this point of view, there was also my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u85	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u86	I'll be very brief. I merely suggest, Mr President, that you send a member from the Modern Centre Party to a magnetogram and let her look at exactly what she said and then she will see. Maybe she wanted to say something else, but I was answering what was actually said. And all those things I said are still well-founded and also verifiable, Mrs. Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u87	We continue with Mr Daniel Krivec; let the Mag be prepared. Branislav Rajić and Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Go ahead, Mr. Guilty. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am having a little fun with these discussions, but to some extent I am surprised that you are talking to your colleagues about whether this is a political law or whether we are politicising something. I hope we have already come to terms with the fact that since we are in the National Assembly, we are politicians. Every thing that comes to the table has a political context, but this law, at least from what you attribute to it, because it's a technical law, a technical change that we might be able to unify very quickly if we understood it. But since I have seen from the debates so far that most people do not know this issue, it is also possible to understand this to some extent. This is a law similar to the law on the registration of mopeds, helmets and similar matters. It's some kind of technical solution that we're assessing as bringing something good into some kind of system. Since the fire-kind initiative has come, it should also be respected and dealt with in this way. Mrs Slug went out, otherwise I would have asked her, she talked about fire companies in her area and about how they talk about this issue; she did not say a word about the opinion of these firefighters or firefighters. I have to say that I've been a firefighter for many years, even in responsible command functions. For many years I have also been a civil protection commander, not to mention mayoral, as my colleague Lach has already mentioned. I really know this subject, and that's why I said that I have a little fun to some extent when some people talk about everything and talk about it like they really know a lot about it. The proposal for a law is aimed at actually allowing those who are assigned to the first intervention. There's a lot going on here. It is necessary to know that even in smaller societies, people on duty at some point are defined, not the whole team and also the invitations are triggered by groups. Usually, this is a maximum of 5 to 10 people who are at some point ready to be on duty in a fire company at some point in a month. Talking about a crowd using a blue light is really a lot of swindling. At some point when this calls for it, this blue light still helps someone to get into a firehouse early and to intervene and therefore saves a life, it is necessary to discuss this rationally and also to determine whether it makes sense or not. If they use it in Austria, if they use it in Germany, it is probably an effect that leads us to believe that it can be applied to us. This is all the more important because in the last period, the focus has also been on many activities that have not been carried out in the past. If we go back to history, firefighters were mostly talked about fireflies and some kind of fire-fighting. Firefighting units have essentially been in charge of replacing emergency medical care in the last period. Most of the first intermediaries are in firefighting companies. Don't forget that. And imagine the example of someone being called to rescue a heart attack in some peripheral area, and cannot reach the equipment that he has in the firehouse to intercede; and similar cases. In such cases, it is likely that one such measure, which I believe could be further considered, could save lives. And now you're talking about that this is a political project and that we're already dealing with elections and so on. That's not true. And also talking about why it wasn't 25 years old. The tasks of firefighting companies have been increasing in recent years, as well as certain tasks that have never been performed in these units before, but are very important for saving lives; we are not fires, including other things, accidents on roads that have not previously been carried out in terms of intervention and so on. And the law defines that a special rule determines how this blue light is to be used below and who may use it and this additional label that it has and which it can use. And through this regulation and through the second reading, given that this law has been introduced into the first reading, it is possible to also address all these dilemmas that have arisen in the debates, probably to a large extent to respond in the right way and also to determine how these new instruments are used properly, that is, the blue light, the siren and so on. Again, you talked about everyone demanding that it be used or given this right of use. It is necessary to distinguish between who is necessary and who is activated in terms of the fastest approach and rescue, and who has some time to access. It's not a matter of minutes, you know, most of the time they gather in a unit, wait for a helicopter to arrive in the last period, thank God, they don't have to fly to the field right away. Don't mix pears and apples. The same is true of the lobster service. Talk about doctors – doctors on call at some point and intervene. To generalise that this is now going to be some flood of blue lights, that is not true, you need to look at the matter professionally and define yourself. And in my personal opinion, this may be an additional moment that saves lives in our space. Of course not where they are, I'd say on-call duty, where there are professional units. They don't need this to a large extent because they're on duty. This is mainly the case for those units that are called upon by the callers who have defined the first intermediaries who have identified the people who intervene at the first intervention. For those of you who are likely to agree with this, it is only right that they get to their equipment as soon as possible, to their locations, and to be able to communicate. And just this interim time, from the office from home, where at some point there's someone who's on duty in that week or month, we're talking again about that they're not, if there's 50, 60 operatives, they're not all on duty, like I said, usually it's 5-7 people who have the task of reacting at some point. However, it would be wise to arrange for them to be able to intervene as soon as possible. And if such a swimming light and some special arrangement makes it possible for them to do so, that is some added value. I think that we should think a little more seriously about this and maybe support it, at least in this first phase and later in the debate on the committee, where, clearly, other experts will also be present, where they will draw up opinions whether it makes sense or not, and make a final decision; but not at the first ball, they will reject it, which is certainly good. And I'm really gonna ask Mrs. Servant when she gets back, if those firefighters she was talking to told her it was unnecessary. She didn't say that in her discussion. And I, too, have done interviews, although there are some sceptics, what and how to finalize or what rules should apply, but so far I have not received one response to make it unnecessary to waste time and ballast at this point. Sometimes it is also necessary to ask and look at matters meaningfully, regardless of who is proposing them, and to see if they benefit our people or those who have a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u89	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone! Too many times we are aware of the courage and nobleness of voluntary firefighting. And here we will all agree that something needs to be done to improve the safety of leaving for intervention and the speed of access to the site of intervention. I must say that I have received a lot of quality and affirmative information from my colleague Lach and my colleague Krivec, these matters are being held. But the bill itself still doesn't seem to be assigned enough to get a green light. Look, when it comes to the fact that as soon as the second, opposing opinion, the proposaler is qualified as a load, then a person may lose the will to prove his point. It is the parliamentary procedure that we are countering the facts and trying to propose our own approach as better; and we need to agree on that. In this sense, I must say that I am myself involved in a fire operation in a different way than you, Tinker Bell. I designed a firehouse in Frame, and since then, we've been in close bonds. I know how to function, how to collect, and therefore this use of light or blue module, as proposed now, does not seem to be the most effective, because knowing a small town, and let's say that 20 firefighters have to gather quickly, I don't know what this light and siren helps. Your argument is that you once drove after someone who spoke on the phone and didn't see you in the rearview mirror; he wouldn't even see you or hear you, even if he had this light; so that's not an argument. But what upsets me even more is this entanglement with the facts of how it is abroad, because these facts are not real. Germany, Austria and Croatia have provided in their legislation for the regime of vehicles departing for intervention, namely fire vehicles. This is not about passenger cars, it is wrong in my opinion used in the sense that you are more convincing. But I think you yourself have seen that the countries you are quoting are not reference in this sense. This proposal raises a lot of questions, offers too few answers, we have a problem here, not that we don't want to help the firefighters. We need blood, and therefore we need to find a way to make them more effective in their firefight. However, most voluntary societies are located in small towns and there is an accessible route and a time when firefighters reach the assembly site, virtually short. Thus far, it is not justified that this time should be reduced in such a way; nor has it been proven that it could be reduced. There is no traffic density on these local roads either, so it is not expected that there would be congestion to prevent firefighters from arriving. I would also like to touch the number of voluntary firefighters mentioned. We know that there are 123 thousand of them according to the Fire Department; it is estimated that there are 60 thousand active. You said it yourself, and we all agree that it's very difficult to determine, Jože will have, Lois won't have that. You need to get as many pieces as people do. You probably already have plans on who's going to be the supplier, but that's quite a number. Even if it costs 50 euros, it's a million and a half. But if 500 euros is such a set, because the price can go up easily, then we have 30 million. In the light of this, it can be said that we have a weighting of whether these effects under the law that you are proposing are in the sense that they really improve, or whether there is one flirtation with the elective body; perhaps at some meeting it was promised – “We are a blue module, you are our voices”. And if so, then it is not acceptable, because it seems that the law in the form you have proposed is still not mature enough to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. No, I'm sorry. The word is Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Bojan will talk again, so I'll have a replica later. I have to tell my colleague Rajic, I don't think he listened to me or he wouldn't listen. The system should be known and not spoken to these numbers, which are published, how many firefighters there are, how many are operational. I told you how the system works; and therefore there is no fear that it will be necessary to obtain 120,000 lights or 60,000 lights and so on. If we knew this structure and the functioning of societies, at least those involved in the first intervention, and those units that also have, as I said, the first intermediaries in terms of emergency medical care, then we would know that we are talking about a relatively small number. And that's exactly what you need to make sure they can get to the intervention as soon as possible. Don't fool around with these numbers and scare the crap out of it. You've also passed a law that imposes on all people who have to buy helmets. The helmet costs between 30 and 300 euros, and nobody cares because you've accepted it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! First, something basic. In the Republic of Slovenia we have a very well organised, well-established area of protection and rescue. This cover includes the whole structure of firefighting, as well as the part of civil protection, which is only the umbrella that organises and conducts certain activities, activities and interventions in the event of major disasters. The area of firefighting is in the whole structure, from the state fire liaison to the fire liaisons at the regional level, the municipal fire brigade, to a voluntary fire company present in every local environment. This structure in the entire scheme and for all ranks is extremely well organised, exemplaryly organised. It also works very well in practice. When I listen to things here today, how this will be abused and so forth, Your Honor, there is no abuse in firefighters. There's no camping there. Everything is clearly defined there, it is known exactly what is the alarm, what are the exports, the rules are clear and precise. There's no abuse in the fire department. And there will be no abuse in using this blue light. What you are deceiving today with your discussions is on a non-professional basis. I very much doubt the debate and opinion of colleague Janja Slug when she said that firefighters in the Lachish congregation disagreed. I highly doubt that firefighters who belong and who respect their rules, which are very clearly and precisely defined, do not differ in principle. I doubt her opinion that the firefighters in Lashka disagree. That's what I highly doubt. This proposal came from practice. This proposal is not of an academic nature or of any interest, and so on, although I am also disturbed by this mathematical difference when my colleague Zvonko Lah said that the blue light costs €32 and I hear from the coalition lines about the cost of €500. It's not the second track, it's a firebending blue light that's known exactly how much it costs. It does not cost 500 euros, but the cheapest costs 32 euros. If this is a better performance, it is also possible to allow some euro to be more expensive. Let's be more precise, this is public money, and we need to be rational with it. I am relatively well aware of the functioning of the entire structure, since I have been doing this for 13 years. I'd say this, briefly, let's leave it to the professions and those who actually use it. Whether they are those professional counselors, how and what needs to be prepared or what needs to be done. Let's leave it to them, without judging in any way. I'm going to say it again. There's no abuse or fear of it in the fire department, and not now, mentioning hundreds of thousands. I believe that this will be relatively small and that this will not compromise the safety of local roads, where the rules in intersections are known and the rules in the use of safety signal lights. There is no dilemma here and not a potential danger, for firefighters solve this danger; they do not cause it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a school example of a coalition approach, how to underestimate and do everything possible to reject a proposal that is only useful. Here you discussed before that the law was incomplete, I don't know what else, virtually all the debaters. Now I'm asking you what the Second Tyre Act is like. Have you identified any imperfections or shortcomings? What other laws have you brought from the Government to the National Assembly, and there have been more amendments than articles of law? Even a few days ago, we also had such cases, such as the previous session. No doubt, no reservation, no reflection on whether what the government is proposing is smart and it stands to reason whether it is complete nonsense; and then, in the process, amendments on a proposal from the Legislative and Legal Service or other proponents are dealt with. Here, gentlemen of the coalition, especially from the Modern Centre Party, we have experienced a lot of horror as to the quality of the laws: and no one there has asked whether any brakes should be pulled, the matter withdrawn, put back and repaired. Here we propose one law, which essentially has one substantive article and, as regards the applicants or those who support the law, we speak mainly of those who were responsible for something that we held mayoral functions and were responsible for the state of civil protection, firefighting in one way or another. One better, one with some other problem, but the ones we've been responsible for, we probably know how to handle these things. Since the vast majority of firefighters are part of the active population, it is said that those who are employed in such or other services, that these services are not in their village, where they are members of the fire company, because virtually every Slovenian village has a fire company, but they are many employees away from their area covered by the fire company, but some problems arise. Fires, elementary accidents, or traffic accidents do not burn or occur only when firefighters have a time when firefighters are near their firehouse. It doesn't happen then. You can't order. When things happen, you just need to gather everyone who can come and go for an intervention as soon as possible. It may be helpful to do some analysis, in which cases it would be possible to intervene better or faster if the solution in this law had been adopted before. It's probably just cases like this. There may be cases where some of the intervention teams are also firefighters who are not qualified enough for certain things, and there are excessive damage or additional accidents. Here we are saying that this team, which would have the right to use this light in exceptional cases, would be the one who would be adequately trained to intervene. Not anyone, not any firefighter. I think this is extremely important because everyone in the fire brigade, in the fire system, in the hierarchy goes through the process of education. And some are trained for much more demanding interventions than others. Some are to help develop the tube, while others, if we say so, are attackers in intervention. It seems to me that this amendment of the law that we are proposing should be judged primarily from the point of view of whether it brings improvements, greater efficiency, shorter time; a shorter time means the same as emergency medical care – also greater certainty that the damage will be smaller so that there will be no civilian casualties. All these things should be an integral part of this analysis. I also miss it when it comes to the government to take this judgment seriously. If we propose a bill and the government writes that this is regulated in the rules and that our proposal is not in line with the rules in force, then someone is missing something; the one who wrote this proposal. He doesn't know what the rule book is. He doesn't know what the law is. What's an act that's higher? And I'm just wondering who among the government officials was able to write this, and I'm just wondering who allowed himself to write that our amendment of the law is not in line with the rules. Show me this hero. The Regulation shall be made so that a specific provision of the law can be defined in detail, better or more precisely. But there can be no record of a veto suspension in the law. Those who wrote this opinion do not know the legal arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. He doesn't know the drill. This is the same as if we were to propose a change to the Constitution and we would write that this is not possible because the law is otherwise regulated. It's the opposite. Amendments to the law shall, if necessary, result in a change in the law. Since you are all citing and quoting the Government's opinion, I see that there is also no salt in the National Assembly to judge whether the Government has written an opinion correctly, intelligently and logically; whether it is not. Since this government has quite a few lawyers in its composition, some lawyers, even a constitutional lawyer for the President of the Government, and at least two ministers are lawyers, one even for the judiciary, the one who voted in favour of this opinion must probably be put to some place. I'm supposed to take a retrial from the legal hierarchy, the hierarchy of legal acts. How can people who have a right decide on such an opinion if they have read it. However, if they come to the government meeting, only if those 30 points are turned around in 15 minutes and by collective decision under that category a, where there are no comments; then this happens. And then smart solutions, which is certainly what this is, are defined as things that are inappropriate. Calling for something to be settled 25 years ago can do. Cerar could have been Prime Minister by then, easily. He's just supposed to run. Why is he the Prime Minister now? Because the time has come. And now that things are being upgraded, improved, matured, or made sense, these things need to be further refined or improved. Mr. Gantar will know. For emergency medical care, we also have a clause on how long it takes to intervene in the urban environment. I think it says seven minutes if I'm right. We had a case in the National Assembly a few days ago when urgent intervention was needed; and it was not half an hour. From the clinical center to here is 300 or 400 metres of airline and there was no intervention team for half an hour. There was no blue light to come and help a man who suddenly got worse here; and he needed intervention assistance. And if in this case, when it comes to health care, when we have the largest facility in the country at the front door, they are not able to react at the prescribed time, then you expect it from people in the countryside who have a job to their village 30 kilometers from their society. I think that there are some things that do not hold, and there is also a need for approach and responsibility and something else in this area to be sharpened. By the way, I didn't realize that the Minister would have reacted in a case where the intervention time for emergency medical care was not respected for the person who suffered the collapse in the National Assembly. Well, you should. You who supported and then talked about how urgent medical care must be arranged, and it can also be part of this package, because firefighters encounter similar things on the ground, you did not respond, nor did you warn. But none of you did. A. And the matter could tragically end. As for this beating about the prices that we are witnessing to him, we always propose anything at any time. Here we will not obtain blue lights that have built-in Mercedes or Beemwei, like that first light or the last lights. In these cases, there's light like this, typical, much cheaper. If they said the approximate price of the package was 30 euros, I would just trust my colleagues because they have experience with it. As the main funder of the fire companies of the municipality, not the state, the municipalities, volunteers, local donors, I do not know why the coalition is so concerned about 30 euros in one intervention light. On the second track, colleagues, you didn't get 700 million euros. If I say otherwise, the second track alone is too expensive for the second track for the two defence budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. Look at the data, the numbers, and count. EUR 700 million, the President of the Government said in response to his colleague Žnidar's question, was too written in the law. Otherwise, no one knows on what basis, but it's too much because he said the price a mile away; and we know how many miles there are. These are exactly two defence budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, including the Ministry, the Slovenian Army and also the entire firefighting system. Nothing, no one is shoving in the coalition, but the second track is urgently needed, obviously necessary, because it will disappear for two defence budgets. You'd be easy if you didn't build the second track, then reach the standard. Easy, easy. This year, next year. If you don't believe it, look at the data. And this is what happens when we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party any change, any improvement, there is a whole bunch, in which case even stupid reasons that do not stand, which are not logical to throw away a thing. There is no argument to try to argue that something is not appropriate or necessary. When it comes to government proposal, head down, eyelids fall and hand up; no matter what it says. No matter what it says. We can all count, count and multiply, in which case it was mathematics from the third grade primary school. 27 km times 27 million euros a kilometer is 700 and so many millions. You know how to calculate that. The law says one billion and how many, you can count it. But no one can explain where these 600, 700 million euros are. Nobody. Don't bother. By the way, if this is how you deal with the project, problem or solution that we have given, which is certainly positive, which does not make the situation worse, but improves it, improves security, improves reliability, and sometimes saves people's lives; then we or you have made a lot of other things, if you have already made such improvements as a step towards greater security of property and life, you cannot take one step. The law is suitable for further consideration, if you have any further improvements, you can propose them. 37 plus the rest, as far as you're concerned in this national council, you'll probably invent a better solution and some kind of amendment to make this thing better. But if that doesn't work, then it's like I said, forever fall, your head hangs and your hand goes up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Mr Igor Zorčič should be prepared as the last in this general work. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Representatives of the Ministry, Government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about this addition to the Road Traffic Rules Act, and when we connect our firefighters and firefighters in the Republic of Slovenia, let me mention that a person often imagines that these firefighters in Slovenia are 100, 120, 130, 140 years old. What do I mean by that? A very long tradition and many decades of efforts to help a fellow human being. The fact is that it is very difficult to compare firefighting 20, 30 years ago or today. And nothing bad about those days, but many tasks have been proved to firefighters during this period, and today we have also heard that they also have one part of the mission of emergency medical care. There's no accident, no natural, no traffic, no fire in any area, no firefighters around. In Slovenia we have professional and non-professional. I am surprised today that we are talking about this amendment of the law, where there is certainly a possibility that the ministry or coalition would want to participate in something else to complement, but I am surprised by the negative, even the jesting that it is political, that it is unnecessary for us to do it because it is pleasing. Comrade Grimes, who presented this law addition, also defined exactly from which fire department this proposal came, and probably from which part of Slovenia. We have fire brigades all over Slovenia, which is the pride of Slovenia, we have already heard that today. We have heard from the coalition today that there will be enormous costs. And let me say, when I listened to the Prime Minister on Monday, I calculated, because we have about a thousand 300 or a thousand 400 fire companies in Slovenia, so that if the second track went as it should, according to a healthy farm logic, we could get 3,000 fire trucks, which cost between 150 and 250 thousand euros. I repeat, 3,000 fire trucks, we have a few comparisons. I also spoke yesterday when we were talking about the Housing Law. Of course, the biggest party today ridiculed this law. Let me say that when we meet with the Motor Vehicle Act, the moped fine, as we say at home, whose average speed is 16 kilometres per hour, if a police officer gets it from 1 May, is 500 euros. That's about 16 lights we're talking about today. I don't think it takes much to be smart. The fact is that the largest party – the modern center of this election received this vote in 2014, because people trusted it. As a result, the media helped, and the media always help if there is money. This was possible; today it no longer holds that you are the most trusted. For God's sake, let us listen for once, at least in what area, when a bill comes from the opposition as well, to at least take it into account so that you don't laugh at it. When you laugh at this proposal, make fun of it, make fun of it, you make fun of firefighters who, when an accident occurs, we count the seconds. Suddenly, you became an expert on where some firefighter is at home, in which street, in which congregation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's also time for us to get real and to do things that are in the best interests of ourselves. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u99	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u100	Dear Vice President, thank you for saying so! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The topic under consideration seems interesting to me, but I regret that colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group have started in such an inappropriate way by addressing this law. It is more than obvious that they did not want to implement these solutions on their own. If that were the case, they would probably have opened any debate on this issue before then, they would have come to the coalition, to the rest of the opposition; but apparently they did not do so, realizing that it is probably more interesting to go to a meeting of the National Assembly, to open cameras and here without any consensus with others, according to the local authorities, to beat coalition MPs. Fellows from the Slovenian Democratic Party, you are well aware that you do not have the majority yourself, that you need the votes of the remaining Members. And this way that you have afforded today with these allegations that any of us here should be making fun of this law, not to say that your discussions went to a very offensive level, I think we should not afford it on such an important issue; even if it is true that these matters are being implemented. I think the question of blue lights is interesting. True, they do not know him anywhere in the world in order for voluntary firefighters to have their own blue light; yet we do not need to follow all examples. Perhaps such a question is the reason for all key stakeholders to get together and to talk about it. In legislative procedures, we are used to the fact that, already in the drafting of laws, the interested public is very quick to comment on the draft, although this is not the final version of the law. All interested parties shall participate very quickly in the legislative process and make their comments. We have not received any comments and no support from key stakeholders on this road traffic law. Here I am aiming primarily at the municipalities, at the Firehouse Union of Slovenia, and none of them came forward explicitly to say that this is the solution that needs to be adopted and that they support it. I believe that if they had done so up to today's meeting to make this debate more substantive today, most of the debaters are only on the side of the proposalr, but the views of the members of the groups have clearly indicated that this necessary support has been lacking. I agree with the view of the groups of Members that this law of yours is not suitable for further consideration; the ministry responsible for the situation in traffic has said for what reasons it has concerns. You have destroyed this opinion by some kind of discredit, but who are they, and who is the ministry, to be fed to firefighters; yet I think if we have institutions responsible for the situation in traffic, they need to be heard to that extent and to respond appropriately to their opinions. This does not mean, however, that in the future there will be some critical mass of those who feel that it is necessary to make the blue light legal so that it will not happen. I myself am prepared to support such a solution, but of course there must be some agreement between all key stakeholders, both those involved in firefighting and those involved in transport and traffic control. And in this case, there will be no problems, while what you've afforded today is not the way to these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you. This debate by a respected colleague from the Modern Centre Party was very important, very relevant; unfortunately, he has no idea. When we prepared this law and when I was informed by firefighters about this desire, I went to the coalition representatives, right to the representatives of your group, and more than one, I told them what the problem was, I asked for support. And you will not believe that it has been assured that at least some will definitely support this. When it was a matter and they were not prepared to cooperate as proponents, they were supposed to support it to move forward and that something clever would eventually come out of it. No battle for political prestige, as you have now afforded it on a government proposal. But when the law was just before the procedure began, suddenly everyone changed their minds. The government gives a negative opinion before that, from the very types of firefighters, because they wanted to, they also communicated with each other, I was warned that where they went, let's say the relationship where it was said earlier, they were promised to give a positive opinion, they said, "You know, from the top of the ministry there was pressure, but now we can't do that. And that's why, suddenly, all of a sudden, everyone was making arguments about why they were against this marriage – because it was your government's political decision. Because politics has decided that more than the health and life of firefighters in your coalition is an important political prestige and everything else that follows. And that's a shame, a sad thing to say. We have done everything in our power to accept this. We came to you, we were aware that you had votes, that you were responsible, I asked for support, she was promised, I wasn't the only one who communicated with you. Everything you've been talking about has been done, but apparently you don't know anything about it. And that's interesting in its own way, isn't it? But if you know, then you weren't telling the truth. But I guess you don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a proposalr. Secretary of State mag. Clemen Repressed, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. Finally, on behalf of the Government, I would like to highlight a few other matters. We have examined the proposal for a new law in detail and, as has already been said at the outset, we have reservations precisely about ensuring the safety of firefighters, especially volunteer firefighters in this case. Here the Ministry believes that according to the number of possible users – here we speak, as it were, of firefighters I, II, III, IV, V., VI, VII. and VIII. categories – which carry out a fire service in firefighting units, the proposed solution would cover most firefighters, both voluntary and professional, which would represent a significant increase in the number of vehicles with an advantage. Here we would like to point out when the number of firefighters was mentioned – about 133 thousand, even when intervention occurs, you do not know in advance who will go, probably not all of these 133 thousand, but probably the potential of firefighters who would be entitled to use this status or vehicle with advantage. This means that somehow every eighth vehicle in Slovenia would have a status of advantage, which is extremely large, and we believe that in terms of security this could compromise security because it would probably cause chaos. On the other hand, when we get used to some measure that should warn us that something is different, that there is something special in traffic, and these are light and sound signals, if such vehicles equipped with these signals are so much more, we become absolutely less careful about it. We appreciate the good purpose of the proposal, but when we have examined it, we have a number of questions that we are drawing attention to. I would also like to point out that most members of voluntary fire companies live in the immediate vicinity or very close to the firehouse or fire department, which would mean the use of vehicles with the advantage of shorter relationships. There is usually no traffic or congestion on local roads to prevent firefighters from coming from home to a firehouse or fire department. In addition, short driving in accordance with the prescribed maximum speed would not significantly prolong the response time of firefighters. Ordering vehicles with an advantage in the Republic of Croatia – of course we went to look at the legal order elsewhere – does not deviate from the regulation in Slovenia. Devices for the provision of special lighting and sound signs indicating vehicles with an advantage shall only be allowed to be installed and used on emergency medical vehicles, ambulances and fire-fighting vehicles, on civil protection vehicles, police vehicles and military police vehicles; not on private-owned fire extinguishers. The proposed solution, in our view, may also be initiated by other comparable services or potential users who must immediately come to work or other activities related to life-saving, health and property on duty at home or other similar work institutes. Here I have in mind doctors, criminals, soldiers, other security and rescue forces, members of a special police unit, officers standing by. Taking into account the proposed solutions and any new proposals, this would mean that this increase in vehicles with the advantage would not only be so great that it would be every eighth vehicle as proposed, but even more. Here I might also point out that vehicles with the advantage of the Motor Vehicle Act are considered to be processed vehicles, even if it is a special warning lamp, which is why Article 19 of the Motor Vehicle Act provides for the individual approval of such a vehicle. In accordance with Article 50, such vehicles shall also have a purpose on their marketing authorisation. Such vehicles shall then also be subject to a technical inspection every 6 months, as has already been said. There's one more thing I'd like to draw your attention to. This status gets the vehicle, this is a vehicle with an advantage and such a vehicle is not limited only to a voluntary firefighter. This vehicle is a private vehicle. A private car that can actually be driven by anyone who is allowed by the owner of this vehicle to do so. How he will use such a vehicle is a matter for the driver to take over such a vehicle. He does not necessarily use it for the purpose or the way that was provided for in the good spirit of the law. Here I might point out just one more thing in the end, so I won't be too long. In the debate, I was paying attention, mainly to a vehicle with a blue lamp, which does not in fact require special installation or assembly, but from the proposal of the amendment of the law, it is clear that a siren is being proposed, namely, a vehicle with a siren, with light and sound signs to be installed. It's an assault on the vehicle and everything I said before. As far as the hierarchy of laws is concerned, I would point out that the current users who can use or are entitled to vehicles with the advantage defined in the Regulation are users. This amendment of the law, however, provides that this is already laid down in the law only for new users. Only for these new proposed users, these are voluntary firefighters and passenger vehicles, and this is stipulated in the law. We would have different arrangements for several categories of users. I would conclude that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support, in view of the above, the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Road Traffic Law and considers that it is not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thanks again for saying that. Today's the day we talk about firefighters. Firefighters as people who go for others literally into fires that risk their health for others, their lives; therefore, it is right to speak of them with due respect. The first thing that would require such respect is to talk about real arguments. Now we've been listening to the Secretary of State, who's been betrayed by something. rhetoric is knowledge and science, which is very denial in Slovenia, but rhetoric says very much. This is the consistency, as I define, of the one who speaks, of his body's speech with the contents of his words. Did you notice how from minute to minute the government representative spoke more and more quietly? This is a clear sign in rhetoric that he who speaks is not sure that he speaks the truth; or he even knows that he is not, and he is embarrassed by what is good. It says that a person has a conscience, but it is sad that this is happening in this House. All this politicisation that the government has afforded, and then uncritically for it, is totally unnecessary. It is a very small number of people who would be entitled to use the blue module, so fire extinguishers, and very rarely, when justified use could occur at all. How many actual fire interventions are there for the fires themselves in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in a year? A few ten, and then let's add some extra natural understanding, floods, colds, glands, and then it's usually exhausted. Well, he was in Kamnik before the tornado. And only in these cases, ladies and gentlemen, could there be a use of the blue model. In very rare cases, it is by no means everyday and a relatively small group of firefighters would be entitled to do so. From this you have made a first-class political issue without a single serious argument, which you know very well what you have shown with rhetoric now. Because you're embarrassed, at least to those who still have a conscience; I'm not saying that everyone here is. The aim of this law was only to realize one desire of firefighters who followed the example of cases from Austria and then even more northward, from, say, the areas of the former Austro-Hungarian region and its immediate surroundings, which developed this voluntary firefighting system, partly later professionalized it and is an example and tradition that is still in force in Slovenia today. It's a noble tradition. It's worth all the support. People carry out a noble mission when they help others, and that is also in the public interest. If there were no volunteer firefighters, there would have been no firefighters in this form, there would have to be a lot of different arrangements; not only for interventions themselves, but for all the others where the firefighters are present. It's a form of life. A form of life that is noble, that strengthens society and the country and gives young people room to meet together; and this is a very positive thing, that they create strong personalities that are worthy of all respect. Against this, ladies and gentlemen, you have today made a political blow. Why, you're the only one who knows. What did the firefighters do to you? I don't understand. If you think this is what you've done to the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we've only moved one request from the fire department up here, and they weren't our members, I've told you five times already, you're very wrong. You just showed your true face. The image in which you have endlessly interpreted how many people would cover this and have deliberately ignored all the arguments and all the facts of what the law says — that only those designated by the Commander of the Municipal Firefighters Association would be entitled to use this module, under all the conditions applicable to their use. And even before someone could use this module, they would do proper system education and content, which would be prescribed by the Ministry, so your government, ladies and gentlemen, and there would be absolutely no problem and there could be no abuse. Because, as suggested, we could then tie up with appropriate protection, say link to the GPS module, which would be of double use. It would exclude any possibility of abuse and, on the other hand, allow greater transparency to the one who would lead an action, is said to the firefighter's commander to know exactly where his firefighter is at any time. The safety of firefighters would therefore be greater, and the safety of all others who knew why they were going would also be greater and the safety of those who received assistance earlier and faster would therefore be greater. But you won't give it up because political prestige is important to you. That's great. This is the ruling coalition and government, which is literally a disgrace to the Republic of Slovenia. What did you all say here today?Oh, my God! Why didn't we come to you? We're here, ladies and gentlemen, and you promised support, some of you did. Today we have lost any support, nor have you made any serious argument against it. You've managed to engage everyone under your influence, depending on your money, including the liaison officials themselves, to take action against. That's what you're referring to. You're burning the thing yourself. You're turning it into a fire. Indeed, in the style of the law before us — for firefighters. With such a coalition, ladies and gentlemen, with such a government, I only hope that Slovenia will be united – Help!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. We have some time left, colleagues and colleagues. If anyone else wants to discuss it, please apply – this also applies to the proposer and the representative of the Ministry – with a key on the microphone. I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone has 3 minutes of 52 seconds at their disposal. The first one has the word, Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thanks again for saying that. I didn't want to come forward anymore, but some of the debates just require us to respond a little, especially the debate of the Secretary of State, who has now read the opinion of the Government. He obviously has no idea about the things he's talking about, and he's very misleading with this information and with these arguments. I would really like to talk about the topic proposed and how it will be implemented. You're literally talking nonsense. I'll tell you again. Certain services do not need this and are not covered within this instrument envisaged. Even in the fire lines, not every single thing you're talking about needs to be done. And if you look at the explanation forward, whoever needs it will first have to be activated through the information centre, which will trigger some activity. And once again, usually not all firefighters in one society pass through, but those who are on duty at some point. Don't talk about some mass installation of these lights. And it is also envisaged that the light is linked to a person, that responsibility is clear in such cases. With your answers, you are simply proving that you have neither dealt with this subject nor wondered, nor know what he is talking about, or in which direction the bill is dealing with the situation in this area. And once again, it is true that cases where immediate intervention is necessary, and such cases are very rare and are, in fact, filtered during activation. When it comes to grass fires, when it comes to forest fires, when it comes to matters of general concern, there is no longer this necessity. And distinguish between the first priority for which the proposal for this law is written – I talked about the first intermediaries in the case of NMP – all of these tasks are now transferred to firefighting companies, especially in areas where the NMP does not cover the matter. And in these cases, it is imperative that someone arrive in time. In cases of fire at an apartment facility where there is no reason to think, but it is necessary to intervene immediately because someone may be trapped in such an facility. Another example, such as a car accident, a cardiac arrest, and similar things. And don't push all the interventions that firefighters have. And stop looking at firefighters as a society dealing with fireflies and spraying. The tasks given through legislation to firefighting companies are substantially different from those of the past and also require more modern approaches. It is necessary to look at the content and find a solution that will improve this situation. And this part that we've been talking about today and what the proposal of this law is, it certainly solves certain things in this area. But that's the way to look at them. It is clear that the rules should apply to everyone later. Not talk about a verse. First of all, the call recorded in the centre, the traceability is known, everything is known and does not talk about massism, and thus deceive and persuade coalition Members to reject it. The matter is more serious than you think, and in the future the proposal will certainly come back to the table, as firefighting organisations will also find that some of the things the legislation has imposed on them are not feasible with the approach it has implemented so far. And when the first action or indemnification for non-refoulement falls, the matter will repeat itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Vice President! Dear Members and Members! This law addresses the problem we have, this law is the solution to the problem we have, and in this law there are also safeguards to prevent the solution to this problem from being exploited. The very problem we have is the way to intervene. The proposal that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party is not a proposal that Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party make up, but, as you know, the Slovenian Democratic Party has also opened a tab on its website in recent months where citizens and citizens can directly propose parliamentary questions, legislative proposals, various initiatives and so on. And on this basis, the Cran firefighters have contacted our MP mag. Branko Grims, we met with him, and then we discussed this in the mission group as well as with other firefighters. Because we considered this to be the only possible and effective solution to this problem that firefighters have, this is the exposure to danger while rushing to help others and risking their health and life that this is the solution that needs to be proposed. So this is the solution to this problem. To avoid the misuse of this blue light, however, we have also anticipated the consequences for those who abuse it. And instead of discussing here where are the points that weigh you down, which bother you not to implement this law; and to discuss this in particular in the second reading, where we could collectively develop such solutions so that, after all, the ruling coalition, we are listening here to some of the hairy arguments of the Third League of Officials at the Ministry and the arguments of members of the coalition that instead of the content of the proposal go in this direction to explain how the legislative process in the National Assembly is going. I am a member of the first term, but I have nowhere to see that you must consult all parliamentary groups before the law. This reminds me of the stupidity expressed by one of the coalition members when we discussed our addition and the amendment of the Penal Code. She told me – Why didn’t you consult the Attorney General before filing? You obviously do not understand, after almost three years here in Parliament, some basics on how parliamentaryism works, how parliamentary democracy works. It is not the opposition's task to coordinate with either the opposition parties or coalition parties, but with any general public prosecutor or representatives of the executive branch. In short, this is the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is the proposal of firefighters, the law that comes from the ground. If you care about the safety of those who care for our safety, then you will let the marriage go through the first reading and perhaps complete it in another reading. But if this is not done and the main obvious is who filed this, how he invested, what he did not do before, then you reject this proposal of law solely out of political prestige because it was not you who remembered it, but us or the firefighters. However, I expect that because we know what the operating mode is like, in a few years, if the end of the term is not yet there will be a similar proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u112	I'd start where my buddy ended up. No harm will come to me if the government comes soon with this law. The purpose is important, not the political point in this case. I've had a bit of a violent reaction before, and you can also see who was the most constructive discusser here. Those who were once mayors who were responsible for fire safety in their municipality, who well know the system, needs, how to organise how the system works. It's not about political points, not at all. I don't know how many blue lights this is going to be. Every mayor where there is no professional fire department or response time is less than 15 minutes to cover a professional fire brigade is obliged to arrange fire safety in some way. Each mayor shall aim to ensure that those who provide fire safety have as short a response time as possible, that they have such equipment, that they arrive at the fire as soon as possible and that they are as effective as possible. In our congregation we have signed a contract with a professional fire department, but we have found that our volunteer firefighters come to a particular fire rather than a professional fire department. And also the alarm system that we have is so adapted not to call everyone, depending on the fire. This is also how the alarm plan was designed to adapt to this. Each Fire Company I, II. or III. The category, which is no longer in small municipalities, has a certain number of operational firefighters who are qualified. In the beginning, for example, Category I firefighters were equipped with two fire extinguishers for breathing appliances. Since education is needed, it must also be able to do so. I'm sure it would belong to an operative firefighter if he wasn't in the firehouse to have this possibility of having a blue light to get to a firehouse as soon as possible, to take a fire extinguisher or a breathing apparatus, and to intervene because not everyone is qualified. The municipal commander, usually above the company’s commanders, is also the mayor, it would be determined how many of them can have, which are so important, which means so much. That would be in the judgment or the mayor, the municipal commander, the relationship is too far away. I think every mayor's goal is to have this well arranged. While the results cannot be measured, it is not a competition to compete with one another, who has a more orderly attitude. I am particularly hurt because we have firefighters who are among the best in Slovenia or, I can say, the best, go to the Olympics, not only competitors, but firefighters, operational firefighters who are in any case, at every fire among the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you very much again for your word. As I mentioned earlier, I regret that this debate on this interesting issue has turned into some kind of political account that you have triggered by your colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. The appointment of the Secretary of State as a third-class official shall be eloquent about you. And if this question seems so important to you and you want to help the firefighters, I agree that we are helping them, but I don't think this is the way to come to Parliament and thus communicate with your colleagues. I would like to point out once again that, on such an important issue, we would also expect to have a position before today's hearing of the Fire Union of Slovenia, the police, if you will. It is an important question of who should have a blue light in traffic, who can use it, under what conditions. That is why we need to discuss this too. But there's something else I'd like to say to my colleague Grimes. You said you were with us. Your colleague Mahnic denied you when he said who you were, that we would go to you. You weren't with us. Too bad you weren't, if that's such an important question for you. I believe that we would be significantly more successful in this effort to perhaps solve one important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The text is by a representative of the Ministry, State Secretary Mag. Clemen of the Thracian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At the ministry, as I have said many times before, we accept every initiative for a meeting which is justified, for which reason is stated; and so we also held a meeting with the Intervent 112 organization, where we were presented with a magnetic sign – fire extinguisher 112, it is a magnetic board that is placed on the roof and alerts us to the fact that there is a fire extinguisher in the vehicle. We supported their initiative. And maybe this is some way to focus on future initiatives. Maybe this is the solution. It is also a similar case from Germany, as Mrs Slug said. I'd like to point out one more thing. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposal and found that the proposal cannot be supported. In addition to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence have also taken a negative view of the proposal, or more precisely, of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and resolution of which the field of fire is part; it is certainly the most competent one for these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you. It was interesting to hear this at the end of the day. When these things were presented to the competent ministry, it was said that, in principle, they would support this, but that they would then study it over time. And since this was a long time ago, they asked if it was possible to open up in the National Assembly. And you will not believe, ladies and gentlemen Members, those who said why you put this in the National Assembly; therefore we are here to propose laws. Before, my friend said we didn't talk. Of course, we did and I said nicely that I spoke to more than one of your parliamentary group; not just me, but someone else. But I didn't say it was Jean Madnick. When a colleague says someone's demeaning me, he better bite his tongue. Apparently, communication here doesn't exactly run like that. And as a result, after unnecessary exacerbation; but this decision not to support it was not taken in the national assembly. I also communicated with your firefighters, and they all told me the same story that from the beginning there was a great enthusiasm for this to be accepted. Then there was a political impulse, either it was one government meeting or someone invented it there at the government level. Then everywhere you have a chance where people depend on your money, it's a relationship and so on, everyone you referred to has given a negative opinion because it was a political decision. And then that's what you're referring to, and shame on you. Seriously, it's a very serious matter. This question, which we have set forth, was meant only as a symbolic gesture — a small help to firefighters in carrying out their noble duties, the protection of people, their health, their lives, their property. Frankly, I did not imagine that you would turn this into such a prestigious political accounting as the government did with its services, and today you have allowed it here. Too bad that's true. There's some topics we could go to together. When I spoke to your colleagues, that colleague is not in there now, I also said that if you want to cooperate, if you want to make any suggestions, let's work together. No interest; it was only said that they would already support that we would then continue to consider ourselves. Of course, none of this has been done today, only to be trusted by left - handed men. Sorry, too bad. It's firefighters, ladies and gentlemen, you've been watched by Slovenia today. Slovenia knows that firefighters are dependent on a lot of things and that firefighters are not well offended. And I think you've done very unselfishly to make sure that this coalition is very hard on them; and it's all your fault. We could peacefully propose this law together; we could peacefully adopt the law together; we could give additional restrictions, additional solutions, perhaps in the part that I mentioned earlier, a little bit more. These are the most urgent services that sometimes work with firefighters, such as mountain rescuers when it comes to hilly terrain; and the matter would be jointly, consensually given as a great recognition to people who sacrifice themselves for others, such as a positive gesture and at the same time a demonstration of respect for values, humanity, solidarity, assistance given to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, today the coalition has arranged for a completely different display, and I personally regret this. But believe me, we're going to meet up with this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide this afternoon in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking the 27th item of the agenda. We're moving to 28. Period of the day, it's firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the motor vehicle laws. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke as the first to be signed. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On 19 October 2016, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Motor Vehicles and a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic Rules. The objective of the two novelties was, in the view of the applicant, to ensure higher safety standards for the use of bicycles with auxiliary engines whose maximum design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour and to lay the appropriate legal basis for regulating the scope of these vehicles. Let me start by saying that bicycles may also include vehicles whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. This category includes mopeds, which thus reach higher final speeds, have built-in blocks that are relatively easy to remove. The law entered into force on 1 May 2017 and we can say that the law adopted in practice has put bicycle owners with a motor ahead of almost insurmountable problems. Many for their bikes with an engine they bought 10, 20, 30, 40 and more years ago have no ownership certificate and other documentation. Therefore, the ownership of the vehicle will have to, and they have to, prove at that time in a finding procedure which is complex and long-lasting. They had to find witnesses, some had already died, some 10 years ago, and they confirmed that the moped's owners were over 10 years old, and so on. This isn't where these things stopped either. It is a specific case where moped owners cannot prove ownership because they were not older than 18 years at the time of engine production, i.e. full-year. They're bordering on, we can say, even a comedy of absurdity. We have some mopeds or construction vehicles up to 25, which are a few 10 years old, and are looking for witnesses who are almost 100 years old. It's absurd matters, it's an absurd law that has nothing to do with road safety. As already stated in 2016, respected colleagues and colleagues, 25 kilometers per hour is the speed achieved by a healthy man in progress, 25 kilometres per hour is the speed achieved by each animal, from dog to horse, 25 kilometers per hour exceeds each skier, 25 kilometers per hour is the speed that has left these mopeds unregistered for decades. We're talking about wheels with an auxiliary engine. Anomalies in the law are also in different areas, even in a cost-effective sense. Mopeds have to perform a technical inspection, those mopeds after 2004 have to complete a complete approval costing about €90. Vehicles over 8 years of age must undergo a technical inspection each year. There are also plates for these mopeds that are special. The main solutions to the bill are to amend the Motor Vehicle Act or to abolish the obligation to register bicycles with auxiliary motors or mopeds whose maximum design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. This also removes insurmountable administrative obstacles and complications that have been brought before the owners by a law on mandatory registration of mopeds where the permanent rated power of the engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and structurally defined speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. The abolition of this law will have no financial implications. The texts of the articles to be repealed are mainly bound by Article 31 — Conditions for registration; they are bound by Article 50 — Time-limits for carrying out technical checks; and, in particular, they are bound by Article 3 — Transitional and final provisions to abolish what the current law has imposed, so that after May 1, 2017 the wheels must be supported by an auxiliary engine whose permanent rated power of the engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and a structurally defined speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. The proposal for this novel, which is following a regular procedure in the first reading, suggests that this law, which can be said to be an insult to any logic, for every healthy farm of intelligence, should be abolished because it has nothing to do with road safety. I will also explain and discuss all other matters in practice that have arisen with the implementation of this law in the coming minutes and hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Motor Vehicles, as proposed by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in April 2017, is not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes changes in the law, as the proposed articles interfere with the easier identification of ownership for all mopeds and repeals the provision setting the time limit for technical inspection for all vehicles. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes that change in the easier identification of ownership for all mopeds, as it is necessary to facilitate registration of mopeds. It also opposes the abolition of a provision specifying the technical inspection of the vehicle before its registration in the Republic of Slovenia if the vehicle is older than the time limit for the first technical inspection of the vehicle of the same category. This provision shall apply to all vehicles. Those measures are not solely related to mopeds where the permanent rated power of the propulsion engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and the structural specified speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, and are necessary for the smooth functioning of the vehicle registration system and technical checks to complement road safety measures for all its participants. According to the material of the Proposal for a Law amending the Motor Vehicle Act, this Act should abolish the obligation to register mopeds where the permanent rated power of the engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and the design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. However, it follows from the normative part that only the transitional period for the start of the mandatory registration of those mopeds shall be abolished. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia points out that the transitional provision is consumed and is not allowed to be affected. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes the intention to abolish the obligation to register these mopeds. The registration of mopeds in which the permanent rated power of the engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and the design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour has been introduced with a view to ensuring higher safety standards for all road users, the identification of the owners of these mopeds and the insurance of potential injuries in traffic accidents with the mopeds concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Last autumn, Mr Igor Zorčič, as the proposer, submitted a supplement to the Motor Vehicle Act by regulating their status. We're talking about wheels with an auxiliary engine or so-called twenty-fives, these are mopeds that don't exceed the design speed of 25 kilometers per hour. The applicant introduced registration for these mopeds with prior technical inspection and insurance for these mopeds. That all of this was unnecessary and that the entire procedure of the owner was merely burdensome, he first noticed the Council of State, which rejected this amendment of the law by veto. As a result, the return of the law to the National Assembly was a result. On 19 October last year, the National Assembly, with the voting majority of the coalition, reaffirmed the so-called Zorčič Law. However, the law entered into force on 1 May of this year. To date, we can see that a very small percentage of these mopeds have made this registration. It's estimated that not half. Notwithstanding the fact that the law already applies, not half of these mopeds are registered. This is an unnecessary new taxation of citizens, as it costs 150 euros at the first registration. Once again, we're talking about mopeds that drive not more than 25 kilometers per hour, their average speed is about 15 kilometers per hour; there's no professional argument, no data that a technical malfunction would be the cause of any traffic accident. Of course, it's hard at an average speed of 15 kilometers per hour. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to the law to withdraw this unnecessary new taxation of citizens. Security isn't questionable here either. It's extremely low speeds, on average, 15 kilometers per hour. From all this, we can understand that the applicant had in particular one objective to fill the state budget by means of this law. There is no way we can accept this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. As a result, this law is now back on the table and we hereby suspend registration for these mopeds, which also require technical inspection and insurance. This unnecessary exercise, new administration and new taxation are withdrawn from the obligations of citizens or owners of these mopeds.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In the Desus Group, we agree that the proposal for the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act is not suitable for further consideration. With the issue of registration of mopeds that do not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, we are dealing again just after the implementation of the legal solutions, which we have recently supported in our parliamentary group, while the applicant wants to rescind the registration. It states in its explanation that the law did not provide higher safety standards. Surprisingly, the compulsory registration measure has barely entered into force and we cannot assess its performance in the field of road safety. The fact is that the drivers of these mopeds are also ordinary and often involved in traffic, although their speed is limited to “le” 25 kilometres per hour. The initial problems related mainly to the proof of ownership of older mopeds cannot be the reason for the removal of registrations. In the Desus Group, we believe that it makes sense, but we defend the view that it will have to be renewed for a longer period and that registration on the ground will also be possible in certain cases. Although the Minister has made a number of public commitments, last but not least in response to the question at the April meeting of the National Assembly, in order to prepare a new law in the second half of the year, which will actually require technical checks for mopeds for four to five years. The Ministry has also acknowledged the complications with regard to the proof of ownership and has issued appropriate instructions on how to deal with cases where ownership cannot be proved by means of papers and evidence, and therefore, according to the assessment of our Group of Members, this cannot be the reason why the proposal for the amendment of the Motor Vehicles Act cannot be supported. We are convinced that the abolition of mandatory registration would make the current more effective control of mopedists worse, which, unlike the proposaler in the vast majority, appears to have adopted new rules without particular excitement. We are pleased to see more and more registered mopeds on the roads, where young drivers in particular use protective helmets, which, in our opinion, is an additional reason to conclude that the law does work. As it is said, the Desus Group considers the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act to be inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The history of this law is one of the more turbulent, since the adoption of this law was also one of those that was accompanied by more interest and also by pressure from the public, professions and stakeholders, as is the case with the legislative procedure in the National Assembly. Therefore, decisions following the support or non-support of this law by our parliamentary group have also been subject to a number of debates and decisions at the last minute. Allow me to mention that the Social Democrats Group of the Law, which is currently in force, did not endorse the Council of State by a majority or objected to the majority by five votes against and one vote in favour. Even after the law was in force, we were faced with a number of comments from people, especially on the basis of the conclusion that approximate measures for better user experience, such as the possibility of field registration, longer insurance, longer-term registration, have not been carried out and that this has led to considerable dissension in people. On the other hand, we understand the basic purpose and the need to enforce a law that allows both technical adequacy and the adequacy of safety standards in road transport where, unfortunately, we still have to find out that every year and every month too many people die or are seriously injured and that Slovenia is in a negative sense one of the more successful European countries in this area. Therefore, in this first reading, we will closely monitor the contention of the arguments of both the Ministry and the proposers of this law, and we will decide, as well as in the two previous final proceedings of the draft law, which addresses the substance of the registration of mopeds, when the arguments presented are finally weighed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. For the third time in one year in the National Assembly, we are dealing with mopeds whose maximum design speed is not more than 25 kilometers per hour. For the registration of these vehicles to cause their owners a great deal of problems, it was clear at the time of the adoption of the coalition package of amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act and the Motor Vehicle Act. This has been pointed out in the opposition, and this has been pointed out by the Law to the State Council. It all started when Nova Slovenija introduced a new Law on Road Traffic Rules. The reason for this novelty was the chaos caused by the loose rules on the participation of these vehicles in road transport. We all agreed at the time, both coalition and opposition benches, that this area should be regulated, but since the law was opposition, it was not acceptable at the time. And then instead of this short and user-friendly novel, we got a complicated and hard-to-understanding package of coalition laws, which now, due to the mandatory registration of bicycles with auxiliary engines or today, are mopeds whose design speed is not more than 25 kilometres per hour, causing unnecessary costs and difficulties in proving ownership of bicycles purchased at a time when it was not necessary. In the United Left, we believe that mopeds and auxiliary bikes must be marked so that they can be identified. The fact is that one of the reasons why the auxiliary engine status of the wheels began to be regulated was that the identification of these vehicles was not possible. In the event of traffic accidents, however, only dangerous driving, offences, general road safety risks and so on by drivers of these vehicles were previously impossible to do so. In addition, it is not only about road users. Young drivers of such mopeds often linger and also ride in playgrounds where they endanger peers and younger ones, i.e. children, and the dangers and events around them are usually not as careful at that time as they are paying attention to their surroundings to road users. And since it was unregistered vehicles, the identification of the driver was virtually impossible to escape from the scene of the accident. Of course, that's not right. In the United Left, we also supported the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act, which was introduced by the Christian Democrats at the time, for this reason, because it introduced bicycle identification plates with an auxiliary engine. These were installed on such a bicycle and would allow for the immediate identification of its owner. This would not be a license plate, however, since this bicycle should not have to be registered as a bike with an engine, but the competent administrative authority would have entered this into the registration of bicycles with an auxiliary engine on the basis of a concluded purchase contract. And I'd be a wolf full and a goat whole. However, the coalition then came with its novelty, in which it introduced mandatory registration and from the owner of the vehicle, in addition to causing unnecessary costs, also requires proof of the origin and ownership of the vehicle, a certificate of conformity, a security certificate and proof of technical integrity or technical inspection. In the United Left, we agree with the proposaler that registration of mopeds with a maximum design speed of less than 25 kilometres per hour presents an unreasonable and unreasonable administrative burden for their owners and causes unnecessary costs. Once a change is made, the talk on administrative burdens and obstacles is actually justified. However, we believe that these vehicles must be marked in some way so that they can be identified on the road, but the current law does not introduce an alternative method of labelling and identification and simply deletes the mandatory registration of these vehicles. Therefore, now, at first reading, in the types of socialists, we will abstain from the proposal for a law, but if this law is given an alternative to the identification of these vehicles in the future, for example, following the example of identification plates, as already proposed by Nova Slovenije, we will support this law at a later stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u132	Dear Presidents, representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues! Because I've got a lot of time and this story is so simple, I'm going to read something. Murphy's laws are said to be unforgivable. I guess so. For the first and the fundamental among them says that if something goes wrong, it will go wrong. No less so is Parkinson’s law on iron rules of bureaucracy, which abundantly cultivates and unrelentingly spreads itself, even if it causes so much confusion and damage. His husband made it according to his own life experience. As a soldier in the warehouse, he had nothing to do, but because of his boredom, he wrote such a convincing laboratory as he had to work and that he could no longer be assigned an act and sent an assistant to him. When they were both bored over time, they wished for a third one so they could at least throw the cards away, write back to the command and get three assistants and even higher rank. In this way, he soon led a few ten subordinates, making headway progress, and everyone was still doing a job that was too small for him. Let this be an introduction to this law. I think you all understand what I'm trying to say. However, I cannot help but overlook the fact that in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats at the 19th meeting of the National Assembly held last May, we proposed to the National Assembly a bill on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act, which was voted unfit for further consideration. This bill was as I had previously heard from the previous speaker what should be done with these mopeds. The main solutions to this law, which we proposed in New Slovenia at the time, were the establishment of the lowest age limit for auxiliary bike drivers, the mandatory use of a safety helmet and the conclusion of mandatory basic insurance. In the event of an accident, liability would be covered from this insurance policy. The idea for this law came from the coast, where there are already a lot of mopeds, a lot of engines, and also a proposal to solve these problems, which all participants in transport have. Therefore, we have proposed that mopeds should be able to identify the causes of accidents or plate violations more easily if any of them escape, because we all know that these mopeds have been processed and that not only 25 but also significantly more kilometres per hour, and that it would be easier to identify in the event of damage caused by a traffic accident, that the insurance company is being reimbursed or that the engine or moped is insured. This was supposed to be a solution, which was obviously not good for or did not fit the coalition, so they rejected this law and then came in October 2016 alone with the law that they upgraded to register these mopeds and to make some sort of order, an upgrade to this law. None of the proponents at the time probably realized that some of these mopeds were 50 years old and even more that they might have been standing somewhere but then someone pulled it out of the way, erased it, serviced it, and now it's being used, that it doesn't even know when it was bought, who owned it, but to a lot of people, I also have a keyboard moped at home, a deceased one, and I've been trying to train it for a while, and now I'm sure I won't, under this law. [[…]] With regard to this law, which was passed by the coalition and entered into force last year — earlier I heard colleagues from Desus that they were very happy to see registered engines and helmeted people on the road. I mean, what a joy it is for someone to respect the law at all. There should be no moped on the road that does not have it, if the law is in force, without the coalition party looking forward to someone following the laws. For the legislator, this is indeed a “success”. Since this law is so lifeless, I – and my colleagues – probably not only in opposition, but also in positions, when they were reading from administrative units or from there when they brought the moped to register – really laughed, maybe my life was extended for a few years. I've got a bunch of stories here, and if I were in a task force that has this coalition, I would immediately demand that we do something about it. But since it was nothing, the proposer wanted to save it for many, even those who were there at 70 or over, and with these mopeds, they drive about ten kilometers an hour or less, sometimes a little bit with pedals, if it's a hill. I'd be ashamed if such a law were in force. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats we support this law and I hope that the coalition will be out of it as soon as possible, as soon as summer, there are many of these engines on the coast, who came from vacation with the idea to really sort of get rid of it, this problem because it is so inanimate that everyone is laughing. Thank God we don't have a license plate like some people say I'm an MP. Therefore, in the first reading, we will support this law, and I appeal to you, coalition groups, to let this law go to the second reading, and correct if anything is wrong here, so that the plates may be left behind, and what we have proposed then will be life, that someone goes to the table for such a moped and pays the insurance, the minimum, as to say, I don't know whether a tractor or not, that it has a hidden responsibility if it happens to run at 10 kilometers per hour. Let's really solve this, I'd say, according to a healthy farmer's mind, because here, in the law in force, it's so small that it's really a shame that we're talking about this today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u134	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Motor Vehicle Act, according to the applicant, contains only one supplement, namely the abolition of the obligation to register bicycles with an auxiliary engine or so-called mopeds whose maximum design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. The applicant assesses that the mandatory registration of these vehicles has led to insurmountable administrative obstacles and complications imposed on owners by the legal obligation to register mopeds. It should be recalled that last year, on the initiative and with the signature of all coalition members, SMC, Desus and SD, two novelties were tabled and then adopted, namely the Motor Vehicles Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act, with a very clear objective, this is to ensure higher cycle safety standards with engines or so-called mopeds and consequently all other road users. In the field, they faced an irregular state that did not allow transparency over the number of these mopeds. Neither the traceability of mopeds and drivers nor their ownership was ensured. These so-called twenty-fives drive largely and were also driven by young drivers at the time, the use of protective helmets was not mandatory, mopeds were therefore not required to be registered and therefore virtually impossible to track in the event of offences and accidents. Numerous media, police, and the professional public have pointed out that in practice there is a significant number of infringements, including those relating to the processing of these engines by users with a view to increasing speed in order to remove built-in blockades, causing them to exceed speeds of over 50 kilometres per hour. Today, the law entered into force and the registration of mopeds was, as it was said, introduced to ensure higher safety standards for all road users, and the proposed law would actually come back to the period before the two laws were adopted. As mopeds have so far not been defined as an exception to the requirement for proof of origin and ownership of the vehicle and have not been part of the mandatory vehicle registration system, some implementing issues have actually arisen in the field of proof of ownership. These evidentiary problems were mainly related to the fact that the official conducting the registration procedure had a discretionary right to decide which evidence was necessary to prove ownership. As new procedures have been introduced, there have been various practices in practice and, according to the Ministry, this has been abolished. In fact, the Ministry of Infrastructure has aligned the procedure with instructions which have been transmitted to all those carrying out these registration procedures. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we estimate that the effects of the law are so far positive regardless of the administrative problems that occurred at the start of the registrations of these vehicles, and we also consider that this law that we have today on the table is a kind of adjustment. It is worth noting that it was so late that, according to the Ministry of Infrastructure, we already have over 7,000 such mopeds that are registered and that returning to a previous situation would in fact constitute one property damage that could have been imposed by all those drivers who would have been found to have made registrations that would no longer be necessary under this bill. Given that it was also from the perspective of other parliamentary groups, even at the time of the adoption of previous laws, it is more than clear that we are all united in that these mopeds need a certain identification that they need insurance. I believe that the debate on the need for this regulation is, in fact, merely some political prestige and that it is necessary to leave this place in place to be realized in practice and that all those involved in transport ultimately enjoy the security that this law provides for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this part, I will take a little more time and try to present the views of citizens and citizens who are faced with a law that is typical of bureaucratic law. Not only is it a bureaucratic law, but it is increasingly anonymous that it is the law of lobbyers who have been given public authority to perform a technical review and who today want to serve, those who have the majority, that is, organizations that have more technical oversight services in Slovenia and where they want to serve, literally, on the shoulders of pensioners. A number of pensioners no longer have a car because they have no decent pension — of course they are far from it — and this has a twenty - five because there are many times worse health conditions so that they can even get to the store, and they drive a bicycle with an auxiliary motor. It is also for citizens, citizens who make a shorter journey to work each day. We have problems, especially in cities where, you know, expensive parking places, here in Ljubljana, Maribor and so on. And the phraseology you're using is, of course, incorrect. It's about the bikes with the auxiliary engine. It is something that came about in technical history, we can say, between World War I and World War II. When, say, Solex invented a bicycle system in which the engine was installed in the front and mechanically switched when you couldn't drive anymore. We can say constructively that bicycles with auxiliary engines are completely different from mopeds. Most of the time, their weight is lower. Most of the time, their engine is such that you can’t transform it to fly more than 50, 60 and 70 kilometers per hour, as you wrote in the original law. Most of the time, they have gas engines, 9 millimeter diffusers, about. All the other mopeds have 11, 12 millimeters or more. So we can't talk about processing them quickly. The continuation that follows – at least part of the cultural and technical heritage, including the systems of the ancients that fall under this law today, must be known. Today, I would like to focus my debate here in the National Assembly on people who cared for the supreme technical heritage, namely the designers of our legendary Tomos factory. In particular, I am devoting this debate today to a legendary engineer, the head of development in Tomos, the late Janez Imperl, the dead people who were in the Tomos construction office. I devote my debate to all the Tomos racers led by Gilbert Parlotti, Bernetic and all the others who carried the name of this famous Slovenian company far across the world. For what? Because I remember what it was like, what was the difference between a moped, a bike with an auxiliary engine and a motorcycle? Because I see that most MPs in the National Assembly do not understand this at all, and it is a mockery of some basic technical knowledge of what bicycles with auxiliary engines mean, what a danger is the speed of 25 kilometres per hour. At the end of my debate, I will also try to present the real problems people have because of this law on the market. This law is most similar to the law of the LDS before their sinking, the so-called law on those technical inspection stickers, where a certain lobby in the background served millions of euros or millions of marks before the introduction of the euro, because it did nothing but was preparing new bureaucratic measures for citizens and citizens. A very similar law, without any content, with arguments drawn from five veins, as we say those that I think we can discuss. Since I spoke today about the discussion to engineer Janez Imperl, a man who carried Slovenian engineering technical knowledge on the pedestal of world motorcyclist sport, I would like to say that if streets in Slovenia were to bear the names of such people and to learn more about them in primary and secondary schools, there would probably be no such Members and Members who would be so carelessly and poorly debated on the subject of safety, especially on the subject of technical heritage and the dangers which would result in bicycles with auxiliary engines up to 25. First of all, the Slovenian Democratic Party is not in the mood. The Slovenian Democratic Party, by repealing this law, has not interrupted the fact that you do not need helmets on these bicycles with an auxiliary engine. We are still in favour of the helmet being used, but a simple bicycle helmet, so we have not abolished this safety. Continuing when we talk about road safety, the Ministry of Infrastructure, road safety starts on quality roads, on quality cycling roads, not on bumpy roads. This is where road safety starts. Government representatives, road safety starts in Slovenia with the same opportunities, in Slovenia, where thousands of my Styrian colleagues do not have to drive to work, but work in Styria, that Primors do not have to drive to work in Ljubljana, but work in Primorska. There are fewer of these daily migrations; there are fewer accidents; there are fewer deaths on Slovenian roads. So what am I talking about? I am also talking about the fact that under this government even more, we can say, that Ljubljana gets everything, the periphery of nothing. When we are talking about the creation of Flexer, which is another of the basic or all the other types that Tomos is still producing today, I am also talking about the lobby, I am talking about that we must sometimes also protect our own production, the people who have worked for decades. This should also be a matter of pride and respect for all, not only for the developers, racers in Tomos, but also for all the current and former workers of Tomos. Those who have lost their jobs in Tomos because of the country's abnormal policies, who are now moving around with these bikes. Let me tell you a few things. Tomos, as you know, was created in 1954 as the Séžan Motors Factory. In the beginning, he worked, as you know, a licensed moped called Tomos Colibri, a license under the Cup of MS 50. Later he built himself and developed his own series of mopeds, especially when we talk about automatic motor mopeds, we are talking about Automatic A1, Automatic A3. A1 was the first, we could say, Tomos' invention, somewhere in the early 1970s, Automatic A3 was coming in 1973, before it was called the so-called Tomos Laura of 1968 or the strapon, as he was told. What am I talking about? Because those of you who have great memories of Yugoslavia, let me tell you, there was no need to register a moped up to 50 kilometers an hour. This category of mopeds, up to 50 kilometres an hour, included vehicles still on the market until independence. So all kinds of automatics, all versions of belts, APN 4/6 and all hummingbirds. Except for T12 and all those who exceeded 50 kilometres per hour, i.e. types of engines 14M, 15SLC, SL, 15SL, Tomos Electronic E9 and prototype, so-called Tomos 175, which unfortunately never came into regular serial production. Above all, those of you from Primorska can be said to destroy the coastal economy with such a bureaucratic law, destroy those last remnants of Tomos, make it clear that you have no clue about technical heritage, to make fun of technical heritage, to make fun of Slovenian engineers, technicians and Slovenian naturalists. This is a typical bureaucratic law that has nothing to do with reality and has nothing to do with road safety. When we adopted it last October, I told you the case, in Slovenia a few people die each year, falling from cherries. Cherries are now at the time of maturity, will we introduce technical checks and a register of cherry in Slovenia? It is known that garlic, which is often not seen, has dry branches, so many people fall off branches and kill themselves. Will we introduce a register of garlic and a technical examination for cherries and will the agronomists walk and watch where the dry branch is, where not, and we will report the owners of these cherries to some register? Will the cyclists, whom I meet every day in Ljubljana, be required to perform technical checks and special health checks in better physical capacity, which can cycle more than 25 kilometres per hour? What will happen to normal bikes that you can say from a hill or drop competitors up to 100 kilometers an hour into a rafter? Will we introduce technical inspections for normal bicycles? By your logic, yes. Are we going to introduce the registration? Are we going to introduce approvals for these wheels? As you know, under this law, the owners must also carry out approvals for bicycles with auxiliary motors made after 2004 or imported after 2004 into Slovenia. The approval is worth 90 euros. Do you imagine EUR 90 for approval? Why, gentlemen?Oh, my God! Why are we doing approvals in Slovenia today, if you import, say, a car from Germany, for which TÜV in Bavaria or anywhere in Germany has carried out type-approval according to European standards? Why do we have to do this? This is a new question, a new bureaucratic obstacle for anyone who imported a car. Remember one thing, dear fellows. Remember that we had, I think, two years ago the biggest scandal in the history of the automotive industry, creating the results of so-called exhaust tests when Americans found that Volkswagen was cheating on diesel vehicles. Thousands of Volkswagens were brought to Slovenia through technical inspections. What technical checks and what type of type-approval checks have been carried out in the State of the Republic of Slovenia not to find out? How do they manage their work? They charge EUR 100 for approval but did not find that these exhaust standards are not in line with the standards prescribed in this case by Volkswagen. So, throw people, citizens into some bureaucracy and then somehow serve on them, and behind them is no service, no tool to turn to. Furthermore, the case of one of the victims – today I will say that citizens and citizens are injured. One of the cases was that, as you know, hundreds of people have been reporting, the media has been writing about this for two months, which is why the Slovenian Democratic Party has also tabled this amendment to the law. [[…]] First of all, the problem of ownership, the problem of witnesses, the problem of someone who, say 45 years ago or 40 years ago went to the Burma, the godfather who may still be living in Germany at 75 years of age, now came home to the Slovenian Mountains in April to witness a congregation and to prove that in 1973 he had bought that moped for his grandson or the caregiver. That he bought it. Is that normal? Does that seem normal to you? Continuation. They note that certain mopeds, such as Piaggio Ciao and some others, do not have serial numbers because they did not need them because no designer imagined something that “flies” 25 kilometers an hour and that does not fly more than 25 kilometers an hour in the gropa because the engine restricts it, in Slovenia in 2017 it will be treated as a moped, even as a motorcycle. Let me give you an example of a citizen who has the Sachs Wanderer engine, 1930. After 87 years, this engine has no more documents. I, as the future owner, should be 105 years old and my witnesses 120 years old! So for Solex's Wanderer, 83 years old, when he was a member of the administrative unit, he had to be a witness at 120 years old and 105 years old to enforce this property. Is that normal? Are you all right, dear colleagues and colleagues? Is everything okay?Oh, my God! What do your pensioners say? What do pensioners say in the church where I live? Where there is a neighbor who can say that he has major health problems, 75 years old, all he has is Tomos Youngster or Flexer, any type up to 25 kilometers an hour, and today he has to take him to Lenart, 20 kilometers away, enforce ownership, so he has to convince someone. Then it must perform a technical inspection because it has lost approval since it was made after 2004, it must provide an approval card costing EUR 90 and so on. All this has been done for the pensioners in this term, my respectable colleague. You come from Primorska, you could be proud of Tomos like me as Styrian, and all it shows is that you're throwing pollen under your feet. One is talking, and the other is when you come before people. You're telling me not to blaspheme. People will tell me whether I'm blouseing or speaking from the heart or who writes or speaks to me from practice as an engineer and as someone who had a normal childhood, in which we knew what about 38 bats in Tomos, what is the walk of bata 43, what 4 horsepower means, what on 15th 6 horsepower, what on electronics means 9 horsepower, what a bat ring L means, what a normal plunger ring means, what air cooling means, what does it not mean by air cooling and so on. We're not blaspheming, I'm talking about practice, I'm talking about people who have lived for years and decades, who have built where Tomos in his lab has also worked at speeds of up to 180 or even up to 204 kilometers per hour, which has reached the last Tomos motorcycle on the Tomb, I think, in the early 80s. So the one with whom Zdravko Matulja became the European champion in 1982. That's blasphemy? This is the truth, this is the history of a technical and cultural heritage that you are destroying today by this law. You're destroying it because today Tomos lives mostly from bicycles with an auxiliary engine up to 25 kilometers per hour, which is the last. Proceed with road safety. On eBay you get 100 Euro bike with fist, with electronics that you install on your regular bike, for which you will not have to perform any technical inspection, and you can drive at speeds – for example the basic electric motor is built with 250 watts, you have versions 500, 600 watts, kilowatts, even up to 3 kilowatts of electric motors exist for bicycles, hidden, outside all laws, such converted bicycles reach – 60, 70 kilometers per hour and no one. Nothing. He doesn't have to invest, buy for 100 euros. Why would I use a flexer if I could put this on an old pony tomorrow morning? I buy, you get a bike with a fist, you mount a battery in the back and you drive 50 kilometers an hour. Bigger battery, miles and so on. Where is this marriage? You didn't see it coming. A typical example of a bureaucratic obstacle and a typical example of people who have not worked in practice in life making some laws about road safety due to some lobbyists. Twenty-five kilometers an hour. The speed of a neighbor's dog, every healthy man, the speed achieved by every normal biker, I think that even a number of pensioners, who regularly cycle, reach more than 25 kilometers per hour with a normal bicycle, and these bikes do not have to be registered, they are not life-threatening, they don't need plates, they don't need approval, no one in the technical inspection does not look at their brakes and everything else that belongs to the bike. What's the logic on this sphere? What's the logic at 25 kilometers an hour? What's the danger of someone bumping into you? What did the insurance you were talking about most of the time? If you have a child, you may have paid 20 euros for insurance for third-party injury insurance under the previous law for such a moped, even though it was not registered, that did not have a license plate. So if you have a kid who's insecure, you can go to the insurance company, you pay 20 euros, and there's a moped that's not registered, it's insured. This was also done in many cases in the former country for APN, who had a child, bought it for him, went to the insurance company, paid a few dinars at the time, and was moped insured for the injury of third parties. So what's the problem? Are we going to regulate everything? The problem is that you want to regulate everything and from citizens and citizens to introduce new benefits, new bureaucratic barriers that have nothing to do with road safety. We have tens of thousands of bikers in Slovenia who are faster every day in bicycle traffic, many of whom are lacking, the older type who are not registered, do not need technical checks and so on. You're physically stronger, you can move faster. Usually younger than you are, you're more unpredictable, you're faster with a bike, you can cause even more danger. And there's no limit to a bicycle down some clan. Of course, there is a limitation on the amount of air resistance, so that a normal biker reaches some 70 or 60 kilometers, a top rider up to 100 kilometers per hour, and this moped has a limitation because the engine is connected to the engine, and more than 25 or 30, perhaps 35 kilometers may never reach, nor after any clan down. Where did we come from? Then there are new anomalies. You have some mopeds, that is, bicycles with auxiliary engines that were built more than 30 years ago, reaching perhaps 27 kilometers per hour. What do you do with these now, 27 kilometers an hour? You register it, it belongs under mopeds, it goes through a technical checkup, it comes to a normal road where traffic is hampered and dangerous in traffic. How do you limit it? It's hard. Because you can only process an incinerator. And in the incinerator, if you renegotiate the relationship between gasoline and air, what happens? There are major releases into the environment and there are all other consequences. It opens up to hundreds of problems with this law, and so again in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose that you at least let it go through the first procedure and then continue in the second reading, perhaps with some corrections, if you have proposals that are logical, which are normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u137	There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. What do you want me to say after this historic section of engineer Beznik? He said so many great things about Tomos that actually there's nothing to add. A great deal of knowledge that engineer Beznik has in him is astounding. All due respect, I welcome him, I appreciate him because he's a very big intellectual, and that's the right thing to do. It represents one of its options, this option has its own vision and understanding of all these problems. Here we must not go into that there is only one truth, that is yellow-blue, but perhaps something else applies. Things aren't as simple here as they seem. If we say not only by statistics, but by facts that are unfortunately quite simple, and this is that none of the competent institutions actually knows today how many bicycles the auxiliary engine rides around our country and how many of them are involved in different places, in different offences and unfortunately also in accidents. Let me explain. In official statistics are just and only listed as bicycles, and that's all, I'll say, one minester. We had one such case on the coast, the case of Slavko Ivančič, who, because it was not regulated by this obligation to wear a helmet and all other matters, was likened to such an accident, and he supports these matters himself. About whether to register or not. There is no order in this registration – there is no liability when it is not registered. And in these cases, there was one very large gray area where there was no inspection and no control, and I think it had to be regulated. We all know that these engines today, given that we have a pretty good standard, they get by the bars and other things. Very easily, I'd say. Or if someone ends up with a very good grade in school. And these kids didn't have a helmet, they didn't have to have a document, they didn't have to have a driver's license, they didn't have to have any, they didn't have to have a driver's license, they didn't have any, and all of these things led to the uncontrolled situation in all respects. Kids, you know what they're like, driving two, three at a time, doing stupid things like all kids do, which is normal. But when the time came for the police to stop them, of course, there was no documentation, there was nothing and the parents had to come. It turned out to be a felony, and that's how it all ended. Not to mention those mopeds that are being processed. Okay, you'll say that even today, if he goes to a technical checkup, he'll arrange the day before or on the same day that he won't have that safety valve and then everything will be fine again. But that's not what this is about. I think things need to be done somehow. There's this gray zone. According to some rough estimates, 40,000, if not more, of these engines were sold. This is a very good sales niche because we know how young people want it, and they have it. And then to let her be warned that she wasn't insured, she wasn't registered, she didn't know who she was from, she was sold out that we didn't then talk about certain criminal associations, the drug addicts, if you want, used this for all sorts of criminal matters, we know that. [[…]] These engines were then just laying off, throwing themselves wherever they were. No one was responsible for anything. These are really things that this country would need to handle. I understand the views of our colleagues in the SDS, but I think we need to sort this out, make some sort of a gradual order. If what happened did not work out as well, this law, which is now in force, can also be corrected and regulated as this proposal. That's why it's pointless to argue and to speculate politically here. There's a little more to be seen on the Coast now, and he knows there's been some sort of order. On the coast, you know, since we have good conditions, these engines have been driving all season, it's been said all year. My colleagues in Nova Slovenije also noticed this because they gave this initiative, which I have always been a supporter of, and it seemed absolutely to me to support, that then it was settled in the law that is now in force. I think that this is one good thing in terms of security and transparency and within a certain deadline of this insurance. Yeah, you're gonna say, okay, it's up, you're gonna have to pay again. But for God's sake, if you already have a motorcycle, I think it's also necessary to get enough to examine it, to be technically correct, to pay for it, to be entered into the register and to pay for insurance like for every vehicle. And then everyone knows how they're going to handle themselves and others in traffic. Debates and dilemmas about whether it's right or wrong will always be, as they are in every marriage and as they will be in every case. But I think it's going to be the right thing to do, and that this law, which is now valid to do, and if necessary, will probably also be set by the Ministry – given the conversations I had with the police officers who were on the ground, and as far as I have seen, the Transport Safety Agency also welcomed this law, these are some institutions that know how and what is with it, and I think that we are on the right track, these things are still the right thing to do – I think this practice and time will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u139	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u140	My fellow Members! There's been a lot of talk about what to register, what not, what's under registration, what's not. In Novi Slovenije we wanted to establish only and only some identification and, of course, to be equipped with the helmet and to be able to provide insurance in the event of an accident. However, I don't know why, I still don't know why, you've decided in the SMC Group to go so far as to register all the motorcycles. And I have to read, April 19, 2017, Sunday's diary, the reader wanted to arrange documents for an old moped that could run up to 25 kilometers per hour, and he ran into a bureaucratic mine. Counsel of the official: "There is no problem, bring some old gentleman to him and then just make a copy." Do you understand what this is about? How do you want people to start regulating their property? With an intermediary who must be 18 years older than an engine year or a moped. Here, in fact, one gentleman wanted to register a moped, a 1969 yearbook, and first he asked which year he was. And he said, "But I'm the year 1958," and he had two more witnesses, both 18 years younger than him, and he just couldn't register an older vehicle. I think you just jumped into this pool or into this water without swimming. And you didn't even take your gloves with you. Not a ring, we call it a sluff. What bureaucratic obstacles! These days, there was a TV show in Verified, what people are facing, and the greatest emphasis was on what you were making sure will not be expensive. What did he say? Some people who went into this process said it was much more expensive than predicted. So you've introduced a tax that's much higher for people than was predicted to be. It seems to me that at this point and in such statistics as motor bikes are registered, we need to step down, even if you are a government coalition or a government party, one step back and say, indeed, we have, we have not known the situation in these motor bikes, and we will resolve the matter to allow some additional identification, some insurance in case of an accident, that we are certainly overreacting by registration in the way you imagined. And of course, you don't burden the people who are going to be looking for witnesses for some motorcycle, 1969, which will be 18 years older. In particular, consider this, since this is something in these times. We have also received many responses, however, to overlook and let matters settle. No one denies the need to take a step forward in this area for safety, but security, which takes everything so far as to make it impossible for you to exercise your own right over the vehicle, is, as I said, a jump into the sea without being prepared, even if you can't swim.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u141	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Obviously, these great speeds are crucial to this national assembly, and we will face many more times that it is slowly coming, but this coalition has not even gotten out of town yet, and we have mopeds in the National Assembly again. As far as this novel is concerned, I will support it, because the problem that is now being highlighted is already being pointed out when this law was first considered in the National Assembly, when we made it clear that we are in favour of certain things being regulated, but in the framework of a healthy farm, not in terms of additional bureaucracy where it is not actually necessary. And you now find that, or you probably have information from the field that you were significantly exaggerating. If they were at least smart enough to say that some mopeds or auxiliary bikes require registration by a given cut-off date, while others do not need proof and so on, but you were not. And now you've cooked yourself one ministe, which will make you feel a lot of pain in the future, no matter what your helmet on. It will be necessary to look at matters from a normal point of view and probably to correct or supplement or support our proposal to at least withdraw registration from this law for these bicycles by means of an auxiliary engine and allow for some normal functioning. If you remember in those discussions, when the proposal was first tabled by New Slovenia, we also agreed to introduce a mandatory helmet for individual categories of users, and we were also in favour of some vehicle or device identification being introduced. However, we were strictly opposed to the technical review and against registration, because we have estimated that this will cause a lot of problems in the implementation itself, so that it will also cause a great deal of financial burden for individuals, and this is now being demonstrated in practice. If you go to the website of the Auto-Moto Association of Slovenia and look at all the instructions they publish there, how to register the matter, find that the matter is quite complicated, what is necessary and what is not necessary. If a person does not have an account, which is normal, because these motor vehicles or auxiliary bikes were bought in many cases in the past, they were also given a lot of times, then no one thought that any account should be kept, except perhaps during the period when there was a guarantee period for such a vehicle, but since then probably ownership has been transferred without any purchase contracts, this in any way has not been understood in the law and you did not want to assume that there will also be such and other complications in this registration in practice and that this will cost people a few times that someone has to go to a location where registration, technical inspection and so on is likely to be very burdensome, especially for older people or those who do not have any additional assistance. [[…]] So most of these older vehicles will remain unregistered and people will just drive as they have. What the police will do or what instructions they will receive is a question, but I think the matter will get very complicated when an important pensioner is punished for driving an unregistered vehicle. At that time, it is likely that the moment when someone will consider whether he has made a good decision in the past when he has taken the matter this way, for in practice this is, as you can see, impossible. If I look at the next law we have, there's a reverse situation. In the case of a proposal brought by SMC into the procedure concerning the permit to pour alcohol at sports events, however, there is another logic. There, in practice, what the law prevents, no one sanctions, and now the SMC uses logic to somehow eliminate this, so that those who are organisers and institutions do not pay penalties in the future. In fact, the matter is silently legalized and implemented in practice. In the case of mopeds, you have advocated some safety and some improvement in the area of traffic safety, where not only our colleague Franci, but also you will probably quickly find that there are many vehicles in traffic that are significantly faster and that can be involved or also cause an accident, but you also do not have them under control, you do not have them registered, you do not know how many such and different bicycles with the auxiliary electric motor will be driven along our roads. The next time you bring such a law to the National Assembly, prepare all the arguments by drinking water and also by allowing them to be implemented in practice and by not causing any major opposition between users. Unfortunately, especially among older users, which is even worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u143	Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkrajšek and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much, President. Dearly-respected proponents, Comrade Breznik! The only thing I can agree with you is that the process of proof of ownership, especially in the case of the owners of the old mopeds, is too complicated, too complicated and that it would make sense to change it. But this is where my agreement with all your arguments ends. First of all, it bothers me in some way by underestimating the attitude towards these road users. Rather, they are ordinary participants, whether they drive from 10, 20 or 100 kilometers an hour. And that we're clear, even so many times mentioned low speeds, 25 kilometers an hour, is still a lot of speed when you fall and when you hit. You can kill yourself at a lower speed. You can kill yourself at a lower speed. That means, on the eye, if I may say that in less than seven seconds you're flying from this counter into that counter, that's 25 kilometers an hour. And if you fly with your head, that's a lot of speed. So these arguments, what's fast and what's slow, I don't think there's any point in discussing. I'm glad that's why these kids have helmets, but that's not today's theme. And adults, if they're wise enough to use them. To claim to be a new tax is a very innovative interpretation. First of all, a moped is not the thing that he has to and wants and wants everyone to have. So you can buy it, you can't buy it. If you don't buy it, of course you don't have the expense. I still believe that whoever buys a moped today, that for him, I don't know, 2,000 plus, minus 500 euros or more, probably can also get this registration for something he wanted. Otherwise, he can buy a bicycle or drive anything else without it and save himself the cost. And it also drives 25 kilometers an hour or more, even that way. So talking about a new tax is, of course, a complete nonsense. It would be hard for me, too, to be surprised by my technical knowledge, given that we can discuss over coffee with L rings, what beams are needed All this I did when I was significantly younger, and Tomos' models I know and I drove them or at least had them as well as you. [[…]] But that's not the point of this discussion. I'm also sure that I've done a lot more miles on motorcycles and mopeds than you've ever done, and it's not that important. It bothers me more that the drivers of these mopeds are truly underestimated. Of course, I understand that they are somehow secure and large on the safe side as they drive along the city along cycling routes, but many owners of these mopeds, especially older ones, drive around villages, in settlements, on major roads, where there are still some vulnerable participants in traffic. They're even more vulnerable because they're slow. Because I can stand up with a faster engine and leave, and he can't. And you were just mentioning pensioners and older people with old cars. So, once again, I agree that some of the evidence solutions are bad. Here, I'll give it to you perfectly. But on the other hand, non-registration means that no technical inspection is necessary. But I don't agree here anymore. Just in the case of older mopeds, all these old ones that still exist, I'm sure if we went to watch today, we'd find on the vast majority of the stinking tires, the diminutive lights, and so on, I don't speak. What can most often cause accidents in these drivers and in the elderly. I would be happy to support your proposal if I were to go in the direction of facilitating the process, including work on the ground, like, for example, having an arrangement with tractors, I do not know exactly, but I know that there is a possibility of doing so. But I think it makes sense and registration and technical inspection. And I think it's a correct agreement and a conversation with the ministry that we're talking about today, that this technical review might take a few years. The costs will therefore be substantially reduced to a few years. But if it doesn't make sense and you need a technical checkup, you'll find it hard to convince me. In young drivers, processing is common, and it is true that it can be quickly arranged and returned to the existing state of the art. As it is said, however, in the elderly, the problem is technically inadequate mopeds. Therefore, the technical review makes sense and I think it contributes to road safety. And the cost of 80 or more euros is likely to be lower, except for the first registration, it is relatively small for this contribution to security. Then, last but not least, there is another question, the issue of adequate insurance. So far, if a participant in an accident with such a moped caused damage, you probably had to claim compensation in a civil suit. With appropriate security upon registration, where everyone is to be insured, last but not least, part of the safety of these participants shall be provided to those participants by this side. Maybe even for the passengers they often have on their mopeds. Whether they drive 25, 50, or 10 kilometers an hour. So I see, despite everything, significantly more arguments, substantially more positives in terms of registration than the negatives that you legitimately stress, but nonetheless. Before I conclude, I must also tell my colleague Lahu again, indeed, I am pleased to see that there are more and more registered, because I believe that this is the right thing to do, a proper record is being kept, technical checks are being carried out, and I think that in the part where they have problems – I hope, the Ministry of Infrastructure has promised – certain shortcomings will be resolved. However, I do not think that these shortcomings outweigh the advantages of the mandatory registration of these vehicles. I'm saying, I'm on the road myself, either on four or on two wheels, and it's gonna be hard to convince me otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u145	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. In the first part of the debate, Mr Gantar and I agreed at least one point, and now we are going to the second, third, fourth, argument against the argument. You taught me what a speed of 25 kilometers an hour means. By all odds, if you're a doctor of medicine, your knowledge of science is at a worthy level. You know, speed or some kind of crash is most often evaluated by experts in physics for a driving amount. The damage I do to you as an individual, if I run into you as a natural person, is a moving amount, that's my mass at my rate. Now, you tell me, a 20-kilogram bike, a regular bike with thousands of bikers every day in Ljubljana, if you count my weight, 95 kilos, times 35 kilometers per hour, let's say I'm speeding down a cycling road and running into you or someone who has a speed of 25 kilometers per hour with a flexer like this, where a moped has about 45 kilograms, and a young woman who drives 40 kilograms. What's the difference now with the flexer's injuries and this biker? Can you replicate and tell me what's the difference in motion quantity? Well, there's no difference. Do you agree? It makes you laugh. Your argument has been totally discarded. Let's move on. What do you come from, Dr. Gantar? What do you come out of? That people are malaise ambassadors, that all the state has to regulate that it's on a child's level? Every single person in this society is at the child's level, that's exactly how you treat them. Historically, I said that the Tomos mopeds and everything else that was in Slovenia until 1991 were not even registered to the speed of 50 kilometers per hour. No helmet, no everything. I told you that you could also go to the insurance company for your child and say: “I pay so much and so many dinars, let him be insured that if my child falls somewhere, in a pedestrian or in a car, there will be no need to pay for the injury of third parties.” You can do it today, too, past this law. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'm sure some mopeds are technically flawed, but look, everybody's making their own decisions. It's everyone's decision on their own. If I have a good vehicle, a new vehicle, I don't have a technical checkup until four years later. And if I'm not a normal person, I drive fast, aggressively, I have tires like six months or after one year destroyed. Will I wait until the next technical examination to tell me, Mr. Breznik, see, with your tires something is wrong, are they deadly, or will I replace them myself? Am I an adult? I'm talking about the fact that in the Slovenian Left, because they've been brainwashing for 40 years, they think that all humans are mal-minor ambassadors. That people can't think logically and protect themselves. How many wheels, Mr. Gantar? There are hundreds of thousands of bicycles in Slovenia, which are decades old, which must have broken and old tires, which have weak brakes or brake linings, which drive around Ljubljana every day, through Slovenia, through Vršič in the Grapes. How many bikers does he kill and hurt? More than mopeds lately. What, then, is the difference between these injuries? Your argument has been dismissed. So you are from the point of view that Slovenian citizens and citizens are malaise ambassadors. That's right. And everything needs to be regulated up to the last. What difference does it make now if I take my bike, sports KTM, and take 70 kilometers an hour, say, to the grappa in Cerkvenjak, to Osojnica? What's the difference now? Why isn't my bike registered according to your logic? Why don't I have a license plate? Let's just say I run into someone and run away. You're telling me to get out of here. Look, it's a matter of culture. It's a matter of culture. Why isn't my bike registered? Today I told you the world was moving on. You know, Mr. Gantar, we are living in the fourth industrial revolution or we are on the transition. If you're going to be in the government much longer, then we'll go from third to second. If the SDS comes then we might have hope to get to the fourth. I was talking about electromobility, including electric bicycles with an auxiliary engine. I also talked about it today. It's easier to manipulate them, easier than the mechanical part. We were talking about something else we forgot. I also agree with you in one argument, and this argument is that certain people have manipulated, had faster wheels, louder ones, so they manipulated the exhaust systems, started larger circulations, but look, Mr Gantar, in our country we have the authorities that are persecuting it. That's the police, if you've heard of it. Police, various inspections and everything. We are changing the law because these authorities were unlikely to work or could not work or had too few police officers who could handle it, and so on. What about the skiers who drive 50 miles an hour? Will we accept technical examinations for highly prepared skiers? Are we going to give him a technical checkup? Should my fellow veterinarian break his legs so that he doesn't run 60 kilometers an hour so he doesn't run into any pedestrian on the bike path? That's the logic that follows your mind. It's not my logic, I'm just spreading this horizon of yours, this incredible intellectual spirit in which we think that the people around us are mal-minor ambassadors. I apologize to citizens and citizens that they are idiots and that we, as little children, will educate them and regulate everything and bring them all into law. No, there's a limit somewhere. There's a limit to common sense somewhere. Somewhere is the limit when logic prevails and where each individual must stand for his or her actions. Parents where there's a child, with education, with culture. The Ministry of Infrastructure should be dealing with our roads. In the environment that I come from, and maybe my friend Pojbič will say something, there's a hole in the hole. It's a death threat for mopeds, for bikers, for all kinds of traffic accidents and so on. Pretend that the whole of Slovenia will not be centralised, Ljubljana will not have everything and the periphery will have nothing. And if we didn't drive thousands of people from all over Slovenia to Ljubljana every day, if we stayed at home, in our own environment, there would be fewer accidents. There's less traffic, less accidents. You're members of the coalition, these are projects for greater security, not what we're talking about right now. You don't have any arguments. Or let people listen to these arguments. And one more thing, you're talking about 2,000 euros. Look, Mr. Gantar, old bikes with auxiliary bikes are bought for a few hundred euros or even less or someone gets them for free. For 2,000 euros, I don't think there's any in the Tomos programme at this point, or maybe I'm wrong. Wheels with auxiliary engine are not driven by Ljubljana tycoons driving in BMW X6, Porsche Cayenne and so on. They are driven by people from the social bottom, driven by people who overcome their daily problems, and this is their cheapest means of transport. For the cheapest means of transport, they enforce ownership with many problems, carry out a technical review where they have to pay 20 euros, pay registration, if the moped has been made after 2004, or imported, they have to carry out an approval costing 90 euros, and if it is an older type, in this case they have to go for a technical inspection each year. These are all the costs you've given to socially weak people. Do you know any Ljubljana tycoon driving around Ljubljana with Flexer's moped? Do you know them? I don't know them. They usually ride with bicycles costing several thousand euros, carbon bikes, BMW X6 to pollute the environment, or with even worse engines over 4,000 cubic centimeters. The only problem I see, however, that could be a solution that could be remedied in the second reading, is in category 25 of scooters. The scooter does not weigh much, but the scooter can usually have two seats, weight can move up to 100 kilograms, 80 kilograms, and we can talk about it, and these scooters are a problem for bicycle tracks. Here, for example, could be a solution in another reading. Now it is only a question of whether normal logic will prevail in this proposal and whether this normal logic will be able to follow that we bring the law into another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u147	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support this proposal for a number of arguments. Burna had a discussion last fall on this subject. Yesterday I liked the phrase of our fellow Member, Dr. Mitja Horvat, who said at one point: “If anyone makes a decision, he must take responsibility.” All of this applies to the law of Mr Zorčič, which he brought to the National Assembly last year. Of course, we have always opposed him in the Slovenian Democratic Party, he was also opposed by the State Council, but the stubbornness was so strong, and, of course, with the support of Desus, the SD, that it lasted. And today we find that this is a doom for citizens and citizens. Before me, an expert doctor also spoke to a very good motorist. Because we also talked about accidents and death victims with these engines, that citizens and citizens will understand that we are talking about the same country, about the same people, that there is only one parliament, coalition and opposition On the waiting list last week, I traced the information that there are over 400,000 people waiting in the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] But on this waiting list, they don't just wait, they die a day. They die a day. Of course, health professionals certainly know that. Why are there waiting periods? Because Slovenian Lumps are taking us money from health care and our citizens and citizens have to wait and die on the waiting list. Now I'm going back to the law we're talking about today. I rarely noticed that, as we say in Styria, who, or younger or older, even though the pensioner had taken perhaps two miles to the store, had been killed. Those who collect money from health care certainly do not ride these engines. Those men are in danger on the road because they have very good engines. And of course, because I went to check myself for technical checks so that I wouldn't think of talking – there is questionable security and burdensome people who probably have the smallest income in the Republic of Slovenia. As we've heard today, someone probably has broken tires, but not because he's irresponsible, but because he can't buy new tires. That this 15-year-old moped, or 20-year-old or 10-year-old, is going to cost 30 euros. The system itself, for the first time. We have already heard that everything costs about 150 euros, and probably those people who are a little older don't have cars to tie to the shelf they have in the car and have to pay full insurance. The Act entered into force on 1 May 2017. Very few of these engines, mopeds went through technical checks. I wouldn't be talking about numbers right now, probably to check. What are the owners of these engines or mopeds waiting for? They will be punished by police officers who will be stopped on the road or on their way home from the trade in one or two kilometres from 1 May, a fine of 500 euros. The law proposed in the National Assembly last year is intended only to burden Slovenian taxpayers in this area. Therefore, today's proposal to withdraw the Slovenian Democratic Party's bill is not funny. There was a lot of ridicule in the National Assembly today, but you know, people who calculate up to one euro each month exactly where they'll give it, left or right, or take it to a store or pay the bill, that's not funny. I will certainly press the button for this law to withdraw, but above all I would urge those who carry such laws to the National Assembly to focus on the segments, as I have already said for example to health care, that the flow of money will plague us and that our citizens and citizens will no longer die on waiting lists and waiting lists. I firmly believe that these engines, with an average speed of about four miles [16 km] per hour, do not die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u149	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! On 19 April 2017, an article about this was published in one of the Slovenian journals. That's when I read it, I've had it on my desk since then, and I'm going to tell you from this article how it is in practice with this law. The reader wrote in the newspaper: “My best friend has had an old moped since 1969, one that reaches up to 25 kilometers per hour, and has been affected by one of our most meaningless laws. He bought it through small ads without documents, took good care of it, but now he needs to be registered. On the phone, the man used to ask how he was getting ownership, because of course, the old moped no longer had papers. On the other hand, he received an answer that this is not a problem at all, that only two witnesses are needed to acquire ownership and to register later. He asked for me and someone else because we both know the story of his moped, so we went. So far, it doesn't make sense. There was a real nightmare. This afternoon, it's great to meet you again after a long time, take a technical check-up, and everything's already going through the engine review, the census. The gentleman who examined it for a technical examination even had to ask the owner whether the moped was yellow or orange. When he was only doing his job and entering the data into the system, he sent three musketeers to the office. The lady behind the counter kindly asks us what we want, and then there's an incredible debate. What year is the moped? Answer: It was made in 1969. And you are? Answer: Volume 1958. What about you, stories? Witness: What about me? What year are you? I thought he was asking me by my name and last name. I answer: 1961. What about you, another story? Story: 1959. Officer: Just a minute, I'm going to another office to call for information; sir, you're not old enough to be the owner, and witnesses must be 15 years older than the owner. All three faithless, amazed, amazed: Can you please repeat this slowly? Others waiting to hear, muttering, loathing, explaining the law was brief. Those who want to acquire ownership of a vehicle that does not have documents must be 18 years older than the vehicle and witnesses must be 15 years older than it is. No problem, she says, bring some old gentleman in, and we'll write on him, and then we'll just make a copy. Reason: A friend should be 66 years old and 81 years old. So if you wanted to buy a prewar Sachs Wanderer engine at the Old Age Fair, a 1930 year old who has no more documents after 87 years, you should be 105 years old and my witnesses 120 years old. Explain to me, please, which asshole made this up in the first place, and which bizgeks voted and confirmed it in Parliament?" I'm not that asshole. Then the journalists went to ask Members of Parliament and they came to think that Social Democrats had changed their minds, even though SMC's proposal had been signed, thus helping to outrun New Slovenia: "This marriage went by me, I gave my signature for it and the more I think, the more I think it is stupid, I will vote against it to make it easier to sleep," SD Group leader Matjaž Han said. All SD members were sitting, voting against, just before the meeting, Jan Škoberne spoke with the press on their behalf. Listen to this: “The proposals came because Zorčič wanted to beat Tonin, this is like a palm, and we were fellow signatories in good faith to contribute to safer traffic. Now there are only two of us in time distress, either we support or we refuse.” And they refused. It's Zorčice's law. In the end, all I can say is goodbye, brains. Amen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u151	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare for Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mag. Branko Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support this marriage myself. The Slovenian Democratic Party had a congress on Saturday, where we made a clear commitment to citizens and citizens to debirocraticize Slovenia, and since this was a typical lobbying law, including a typical bureaucratic law, this law should be abolished. We will also abolish all laws that stifle development in all areas, in the economic, agricultural and other fields, and, of course, for every regulation we adopt, we will abolish the two existing ones. It is also interesting that this National Assembly held a debate at an extraordinary meeting when the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a package of 80 measures for the demobilization of Slovenia, and one of these measures was also the suspension of registration for mopeds. At that time, we listened to how everything was fine, not even by the coalition, and it was not for two weeks that the President of the Government came in front of the microphone and said, we were preparing measures for the demobilization of Slovenia. So he denied himself, given what the ministers were and what the coalition was saying another week before he declared it. If we go to law school. I get to know my bikes. My dad and I used to build bikes when I was a kid. At the best times, when the old father was still in good health, we had 22, 23 engines in the garage, BMW, DKW, Puch, Pannonia and so on, antiques. I made a lot of them myself with his help, so I know how it works. And when you talk about how you've secured everything safe with these technical checks now, look, my first engine was Aprilia RS 50, it's called a 50-cubic, limit of 45 kilometers per hour. That's all he had on the day I took him to the technical checkup. When I brought him back, I put the blocks out and my 50-cubic engine went about 115 kilometers an hour. So much about how many different registrations and technical checks you actually make things more transparent and safer. And believe me, I know those who have mopeds, engines and that in the countryside, when registration, when it's a technical check-up, are put inside the block as soon as it's brought back, these blockages get out. It's perfectly normal, it's life. You can adopt a thousand more laws and regulations in this area, and nothing will help. My friend Beznik said it was a new tax. In fact, this is a new tax, even though colleague Gantar said that no new tax had been introduced after Zorčič's law was adopted. Of course it is. If you have to pay something under the new law that you didn't have to pay before, then that means a new duty. So much for the government saying that there will be no new taxes and no burdens in this mandate. He also gave a good comparison of how fast the bike is. Today we have different types of wheels. According to Ljubljana, I see there has been a trend recently mainly in electric bicycles. We all know about the so-called FlyKly, an innovation that was created just under the guidance of Slovenian inventors, where you can adjust your bike speed and everything on your smart phone. And all of these are wheels that go faster than 25 kilometers an hour. Can we expect this to be registered? What is a bicycle that goes faster than 25 kilometers per hour — and we know what bikes are like and what their condition is when we look at Ljubljana, why don't we register these bikes? That the speed is the one that is the main one, which is one of the main reasons for security, is the hair attracted arguments that do not last. What's the speed, I'm the best person I've ever seen on Sunday when I was on a visit with my colleague Breznik. He's got two Porsches at home, and we went to Austria for a little visit, and we drove with Porsche 928 GT. That, colleagues and colleagues, is the speed. I agree that the French Porsche must be registered, not registered to mopeds that go 25 kilometers an hour. If you are friendly with your colleague Breznik, perhaps one of you will be tempted to see what is to be registered and what is not to be registered. In short, I will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u153	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare for the mag. Branislav Rajić and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must also introductoryly say that this law, which we have drafted in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be supported, because in any way it is necessary to cancel the nonsense proposed by the SMC last fall, and such a law has been passed by the coalition. I think this is absolutely necessary. As I see in this debate today, we are looking forward to the same situation as it was then, so last autumn. Of course, we will support the law we have proposed. And it's right that we know what we're talking about. It is therefore a law that removes the obligation to register bicycles with auxiliary engines or so-called mopeds whose maximum design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. You confirmed it last fall, and we're trying to annul it with this law. Firstly, under the pretext of security, you are trying to convince the Slovenian public that this is a key objective for you and that the purpose of this law is to follow this objective. But I am personally convinced — and even those with whom I speak are absolutely convinced — that this is a pure lobbying law. So for a marriage that increases people's bureaucratic barriers and increases their costs. It is said that someone from the Slovenian Mountains has to pay 130 euros to register such a moped, if they receive it by chance after May 1st, it can happen to pay 500 euros or I don't know, I think 500 euros is fines, and so on and so on. Is this normal under the circumstances? When we have, ladies and gentlemen, this was written by the Government a few days ago, and I will quote this so that something is not wrong: “The key indicator for achieving this goal is the number of people living in risk of social exclusion. The target of the indicator by 2020 is to achieve a reduction in the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 40 000 according to the 2008 indicator, thus reducing the number of people living at risk of poverty and social exclusion to 321 000 or less.” So the government here said that at this point we have 360,000 people living on the brink of survival. And that kind of lobbyist law makes us charge extra expenses. Is that a normal government? Are normal people who vote in favour of such a one, I will say, a corrupt and stupid law that increases these people’s costs by 130 euros a year or imposes a fine of 500 or 600 euros a year?Oh, my God! People with 350, 400, 500 euros, and I don't know how many people are on a minimum salary, who don't know how to end the beginning and the end of the month, with new administrative obstacles and with a new tax we're taking what they've had in their pocket so far. I just want to say one more thing here. They're 21. 3. As far as this law is concerned, they wrote: “Instead of order – strangers!” Then they wrote: “Will there really be order on the roads? The helmet, at 25 kilometers per hour, limited speed, registration plate, verifiable information about the owner; the new rules in the now chaotic area of too fast and too loud mopeds and their untraceable and untraceable drivers should really introduce some order and peace. At least on paper this will really happen, and in practice there are still many — even too many — strangers. A good month before the date on which mopeds will no longer be possible in the technical inspection organisations have not yet begun ownership procedures, approval or technical checks, since they have not yet received detailed instructions. Even the first license plate was supposed to be ready after April 7th. It is obvious that the registration of all mopeds will be fairly delayed.” And so on and so forth. I'm sorry I read it so badly because there are so few letters so small that I can barely see them. I apologize for that, but the content is very clear. But the content is very clear. You proposed, you passed the law, and in the end, you don't even have the basics to make this law come to life. What I said before. I'm sure this is about the state's complete regulation. I think there's going to be a moment when women have to have a plate hanging on a baby cart! That's what you're gonna do! If you're gonna be in the National Assembly for two more years, I'm afraid that's gonna happen. And a mother who has two children will have to have a wheelchair for each child and for each individual tablet! So far away, you stupid, incompetent bureaucrats are taking this country! And that's not funny. That's what I'm telling you. It's not funny. Remember, believe what I'm saying. My dears, those who ride with these mopeds don't come from Ljubljana, where they have a store every 10 metres, and I don't know what else. Go to Slovenian Mountains, go to Koroška, see Dolenjska and so on and so on, where people have a store 5 or 6 kilometers away from their house. These are the people who need one of these little mopeds so they don't have to walk and spend three or four hours before they get there and back. And you went to these poor people with this crap, stupidly adopted law, and you put an extra charge of 130 euros or as much as I said 600 or 500, as much as the penalty. There is no one in this National Assembly who would convince me that this is not the case and that this law was not a pure lobbyist law, ready to be served at the expense of these poor people from the Slovenian Mountains, from Koroška, from Primorska, Stajerska, Dolenjska, that I will not say from the god of the forgotten ones, as my colleague Franci Breznik said that you have just, as I said, burdened them with these additional costs. These people are the ones who live on the brink of poverty. I said earlier that 360,000 people live on the threshold of poverty, and this government has set itself the goal of lowering the poverty threshold by 2020, i.e. the number of these people by 40,000, and in the end we now have a total of 361,000 such people living in our society. And this government and this coalition, instead of dealing with how to help these people, so that they can survive normally for the next five minutes, so that at the beginning and end of the month they can finish and pay for all the bills and end up drinking not only water or eating half a kilo of bread a month, but maybe they can eat a pound of bread a month. Instead of allowing them to survive, he burdens them with such nonsense as this law! Nonsense, so that one of the bureaucrats in the back sits tightly and collects money for those who make plates, those who, what I know, write these papers and perform technical checks and so on and so forth. [[advertising from the hall]] Approvals and not to speak, thank you, Franci. And that's the tricky one, as I say, I don't know how to say this left-wing falange anymore. Really, I think the moment of truth must come to an end. I also call on the Slovenian people now from this space not to make such a strategic mistake ever again as they did in the last elections or in the last three elections to elect the parties who are here today, tomorrow they are gone. They're not responsible for anything, but they're only working to make a good living and make a good living. My dear colleague Bojan Podkoršek spoke earlier about waiting lines in health care. How many people there die because of too many waiting lines! How many people! Did anyone wonder what to do there? Why is it that where a substantial number of people die, as we speak here today, does not act immediately? But I'm sure even if one dies, it's too much. But I think it's necessary to use it in all these things when we accept such things, a healthy farmer's mind, and to understand at some point what's right and what's wrong. You will never experience Marijan Pojbič in the National Assembly supporting the Lobby Laws, even less the ones that are combined only the great bureaucracy and additional burden of those people I spoke of, those from Koroška, Styria and so on. Those who drive a mile, two, three, five miles from the store to their home and have this little moped, that it's as cheap as possible to spend what I know, I don't know how many miles, I don't know about it, I don't technically know about these things, so I don't want to talk about techniques. But the fact is, I know people and I know how disagreeable they are. And I drive a little among them, and I meet them, and one gentleman or another lady, and the older ladies ride with this moped, because they're having a hard time walking around with this little moped and they just drive to the store and back and those bags hang up, so they don't have to wear it in their hands and suffer, let's say summer when it's very hot. You can't ride with a moped like that. You went to put extra costs on their backs, 130 euros or, as I said, 600 euros in fines. Don't be shy. That you really have no heart for these people. You think Slovenia is Ljubljana? Then you were wrong. But I must say that even in Ljubljana there are quite a few good, honest people who do not drive with BMWs who do not drive with such and different cars. But I don't have a problem with that, if anyone deserves it, because of me, they can ride a helicopter, only if they can prove that they made money fair, not stealable, like most tycoons who drive cars like that today. I hope and ask those who have common sense to support this bill today, because I think it was a mistake when you adopted this law in the fall. If anyone's willing to admit that he's made a mistake, I think there's a lot to forgive. The Slovenian constituency will forgive those who are capable of doing so. I don't know. Those who are unable to do so will certainly pay their price in the elections, and so is the case, so it is fair. Finally, I think that what my colleague Mahnic said earlier – in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as he said, we had a convention last Saturday and then we said what we would do with these bureaucratic obstacles and how we would help Slovenian people, those who struggle with the problem from month to month, that they would live easier, that their lives would be easier, and that they would be able to rely on someone, that they would not come back to Parliament again, people who are not going to tell them that I would not say anything that a simple person is just interested in coming around for a month to help some certain structures that are super-living, and so on, and that is not normal and that is not right. [[…]] I hope that God will be on the side of those who not only have a healthy farmer's mind, but also what we do, work with our heart and have some responsibility and bear responsibility for it. In the case of instant customers arriving in the National Assembly, like the SMC, this is not expected. As was not expected with Jankovic's client and really and so on. They all got lost, except now they're all sitting in the background of beautiful chairs, one in Energetics, the other there, the third there, and picking up nicely over these new customers who came in, so they're getting great out and they're still living like little gods. But the Slovenian people deserve something else, and they deserve change. And this law is also one of those who have shown whether we have a heart toward our citizens or our citizens or not, or whether it is only for us to continue enjoying our privileges, whether it is for us to listen to the people, to give our voice, and to help that people to be more beautiful, better and at least more just and honest next month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u155	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Igor Zorčič then in the final part, the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Mr Pojbič, your thesis that soon the laws will also be that mothers with wheelchairs will have plates will likely turn into the fact that if you have a majority in Parliament that mothers who do not have or cannot have children will have to wear plates. I hope that doesn't happen. But if we're in the anecdotic style that you started, I have to say that my colleague Lah is back on the same subject we have a lot of similarities, you always give me a good inspiration, we have something in common. [[…]] You get a motorcycle from a key, or a deceased one, and I get it from my family for my birthday, this electric one, and on this regular salary I also imagined how much this registration, technical examination and everything else is necessary. But when it comes to the origin of these machines, when it comes to time of use, when it comes to safety of use in relation to others on bicycle paths, then this dilemma is lost. I notice that I'm driving completely unheard of on this bike track, and the person who drives a bicycle just can't hear me approaching. The bike paths are pretty narrow, and you can, not just yourself, easily find out what happens. Unfortunately, those who drive these vehicles very aggressively, including the habit of running away if something bad happens. It is therefore imperative that traceability be introduced in such cases, especially when it comes to vehicles imported from China or from similar industrial forces, be checked after a certain period of time and it is therefore necessary to wear a helmet. I still understand your argument that you are disturbed by the payment of the technical examination, but that you would be disturbed by the helmet, which is even strange. For example, you also stated that the helmet costs between 50 and 300 euros. A bicycle helmet, a basic model, costs 13 euros and is as good a protection as an expensive one. You also know that people with motion disorders, such as strokes or other defects, wear helmets all the time because the fall between the free table can be dangerous. So having a helmet while using a bicycle is a normal thing, and children in particular need to be raised to use helmets. But here I don't think we should have as many reservations as you're exposing them. Today's amendment to the law is in fact of a political nature and is appropriately put into force at the time of its entry into force. Anecdotes are also used to illustrate the age of the vehicle owner and also witnesses who ensure that the owner is indeed the owner of this vehicle, but this thesis has been fully resolved because when the Ministry found that certain cases of this type appear, it made it easier to demonstrate the ownership of these vehicles, so that I think we could skip it. During the adoption of this law, there was a lot of irony and sarcasm used by the opposition in the first stage, but I think that each of us who has a child on the cycling track and who knows what can happen must vote peacefully for the law to remain as it is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u157	A word for a replica, I presume? Replica, Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't be long on that first part of Mr Rajić, where he mentioned me, I won't even answer that first part because I think it's beneath the level. That's the first thing. The other thing that seems very important to me is that if this lobbyist SMC has already passed such a law, then let it be adopted in such a way that it will be done for people free of charge. Free. So do this if you say you're patriots for your safety. Let these poor people do this for free, and then we in the Slovenian Democratic Party will understand that you have a good purpose. But for me to have to go deeper and deeper in my pocket over and over again, no one will ever convince me again. We are the most liberal society, I think the fourth or fifth in Europe or I don't know if even in the world. Go see what the data says. And don't tell me we need new bureaucratic obstacles! Don't tell me about this and don't tell me you want to get to safety. Your key goal is pure lobbying, that someone has in the account of a poor nation full of pockets, that they can ride with a BMW, but I don't know what, but I don't know what kind of helicopters, like sometimes even some of the vehicles that were super comfortable in this road lobby. Or stickers, so we don't talk. And you won't convince us again, you won't fool a healthy farmer, you won't be with that kind of trick! Do, say, Mr. Zorčič, but stand up and say, no, we have decided that we want to take care of security and we will bring it right now or we will support this law and prepare an amendment to the law to make it all [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u159	Wait, the replica wasn't Zorčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u160	Mr President, I'm just concluding. That it'll all be free. Then I'll say it's about safety. In this way, you will not pretend to be a healthy farmer, nor us, Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, all those opposition who are trying to convince you with arguments that you are not right with what you are doing, and this must be done once. So please, Mr Zorčič, tell me that you will do everything you can to make it free.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u161	Mr. Zorčič didn't speak, so you couldn't replicate it to him, the predecessor could. Now he has the word, fortunately, Mr Igor Zorčič, and then we move on to the general part because I see that only the representative of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Here there was much said by colleagues from the SDS party, mainly just deception, so I hope to respond to everything or to point out these misleading allegations that it will not all turn out as if we do not want to respond to anything. My friend Pojbič, this statement that this is some kind of lobbyist law has no real basis. You made that up, just like you came in here. If it is a lobbyist law for you to come to a particular community, to have police representatives come or to point out certain things, and to listen to these warnings, if this is a lobbyist law for you, then that is how we can understand it. Because this law came about precisely because of such warnings. It was first created as a proposal by the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. But then the Law-Legal Service said that it had certain mistakes, according to domestically said that they had written a bad law and that certain things needed to be changed, and we agreed in the coalition, we gave all the signatures because we agreed on the content of the law, you also agreed with the content of the law, you did, and we said that we would reshape it to be like the real Law-Legal Service, and such a law came, so it was voted. And then you lobbied in the State Council, because you also have your representatives there to veto, and then they vetoed the marriage. That you have a fig in your pocket all the time, that you are deceiving in all areas, and at the second track, if you want to see migrants, I'll tell you why. You cheat on this marriage, I'll read you the following. That is, the magnetogram of colleague Breznik, one year ago, the same law was proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members, but he had those nomotechnic errors that the Law-Legal Service had warned about. See what my colleague Breznik was saying at the time, not to say that he started with the history of Tomos, which I know is: "Today we are talking about this category of motorcycles 25. Colleagues from New Slovenia as well as Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we support, of course, do not support something that someone can process, namely, a motorcycle that is structurally the same as a motor bike, which reaches 45 kilometers per hour, by bypassing one silencer in an exhaust pipe, most often the area of a fergaszer or the purchase of a complete kit where the volume rises,” and so on. “It’s not only 25 kilometers an hour, because it’s also achieved by cyclists, respected colleague Zorčič,” you seemed to me then, “the more prepared cyclists reach 50, 60, in sprints 70, 80 and down the hill over 100 kilometers an hour. The problem is that a parent buys a bicycle with an auxiliary engine that is supposed to reach 25 miles an hour, a boy places it in the first workshop with this whale that I have explained, and they can reach 90 kilometers an hour. This is a danger." That's what you warned me about. “And colleagues do not bureaucratise” because we discussed this bureaucracy at the time, “the statement that this bike with the auxiliary engine would be registered. Colleagues, I'll tell you one more piece of information in your favor. When I was in Switzerland years ago, each bicycle, usually a bicycle, had only a registration mark because of these arguments, which are today's principles." Look, this is what you said last year in support of registration. Look how you've changed your mind today. I'd like to know how you're going to do that next term. I'm interested. Even after you have now had a convention, you have accepted some points of view — and you will have a complete change of heart in more than one year. Do you know what the dispute was? Let's just remember what the problem was. The dispute was that Nova Slovenija said that they were for identification, and we were for registration, but we said what was the difference between identification and registration, because at the end of the day it was one plate, whether it was made by one producer or another, is probably irrelevant, but it still means some administration because someone has to issue it, someone has to write down who owns this vehicle, and we are finally at the same. And we said that we are not for this system of yours, for some table that is not called a license plate, but an identification label, or some kind of sticker, because we had bad experience – or you had them in previous mandates, bad experience – with stickers, we said, we are about to have the registration, the plates such as now, maybe otherwise colored, and now we have practice in this. That you've got a fig in your pocket and there's something else. On 1 May, mandatory registration of these engines took place, 7500 have already been registered, and today they would have stopped it. You guys, if you were serious, you'd have filed that in February, but you didn't mean it. You have this session just to make fun of something here, to glorify some of your concepts, and in fact, you hunt yourself on each sentence. Last but not least, colleague Pojbič, you are underlining some social hardship for people riding these engines, and colleague Mahnic on the other hand tells you how you and Breznik are driving through Austria with a Porsche to push them to the seat. I mean, this is all not serious. I don't believe what you're saying. I don't believe you are for all those people you've been talking about for 15 minutes. That's two-faced and I don't think it's right. This registration measure should have taken place earlier, according to my assessment. I admit, it's one sour apple, but not least, even when you're in power, you sometimes have to make decisions that someone doesn't like, it's just at this point those who have to register these vehicles, but I believe that everyone who's given further signatures to the law and who then pressed the button for, we didn't have anything wrong in mind. None of us have earned anything. And now it's some sort of pretense that it's a lobbyist marriage or something. Look, I believe that if one victim is less or if one victim is paid for because of this marriage – because they were not able to be paid before and now they have insured vehicles they can – then it is already progress. Then this marriage is paying off today. And I believe so. So this ruse, because I'm telling you, if you've gone into debirocratization with these mopeds, I don't think that's going to get us far. Order on the roads is just one thing where we're all the same, there's no poorer, less poorer here now, if we're somewhere else and if life counts the same, it's on the road. This law has been proposed and adopted solely for this purpose, in particular for the purpose of the youngest, who are often the users of these vehicles, and I believe it serves this purpose and will serve in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u163	Who's got the replica? Mr. Pojbich. Replica, Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would really like to say that I find this extremely unfair and extremely misleading. I'll say more now. First of all, that Mr Zorčič could have lied publicly, he publicly lied that I had supported the law that said that mopeds should be registered. I demand, Mr President, that he rises up before the Slovenian public and give him the floor to apologize publicly to me and apologize to the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it is a lie to the Cube, without any slightest argument. But to be able to sit here and talk about how credible he is, and to say that I am questionable when I fight for those people there from Styria, Koroška and there, who drive with these mopeds to talk about me that I am a problem, such a person publicly lies before the entire Slovenian public and the SMC party has to rule him out for this! He has to shut it down because he lied publicly! And let's read what I think the representatives of New Slovenia will say today what was written in that bill. [[…]] That's one thing. The other thing is, he was trying to connect me to Mr. Breznik's Porsche. Mr. Breznik has a Porsche that's not how old, an old timer worth maybe three or five grand today. And you're trying to abuse the Slovenian public for such a mess! Mr Zorčič, this is something that Marian Pojbič does not allow because he has too much dignity. And I'm in the National Assembly for four terms, not because I'm a bastard, because I'm honest, or else I wouldn't be sitting here. That's a good thing to remember. People wouldn't vote for me if I was a bastard. The problem is those people who come here for one term and then leave Parliament and sit in the back of such and other state-owned companies and take and raise money nicely. That's the problem. I won't let anyone treat me like this. Nobody! In this world, no one. And don't let yourself lie to me publicly and connect me to such things in such a way, I'll say, a hypocritical, depraved way. How can you afford such a thing? I just told you that this marriage is in my opinion because you were a proponent, lobbyist, and I still say it and I stand for it! You do not think that I will not say anything — but you would say that it is a matter of security for us, for each individual in this society to remain alive. That's what I'm talking about. I therefore propose that we amend the law so that people can register mopeds already have enough work to do, free of charge. And they would be credible in front of the Slovenian public! But you did the opposite to make someone at the expense of these poor people deserve and full of pockets. And don't mess with me like that because I won't let you do it! Because Marijan Pojbič is Marian Pojbič, and remember this forever. Mr Zorčič, don't ever let that happen again – to lie to the Slovenian public that I did something I didn't do. I'm not letting you do this, and I'm asking for an apology. I request a public apology and the President, please, to make a public apology to Mr Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u165	It doesn't count under the replica. The replica isn't even meant for that. According to how you measure up to each other, I'm looking at this completely neutral, and from this side, very ugly things were flying there, very ugly. From idiots to idiots, I don't know what. Then someone reads you something they were supposed to say, so I understood that it was a verbal thing, now on that basis, come on! [[…]] I think that the equality of weapons applies in a normal debate. Let's just calm down and let the government finish, and then use another word, if you want another word, those five minutes that you have available by sharing time, because I've seen that this time-sharing is required. A replica of what? [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, I'm just asking. So a replica of the last speaker? Replica, Mr. Jean-Mahnich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you, President. My friend Zorčič mentioned me if you would listen to him carefully, so that the replica on him, because there can't be a replica of another than the previous speaker, but of course I don't have a replica of Mr Pojbič. My friend Zorčič is trying to do something here with this Breznik Porsche, how did my colleague Pojbič talk about how people are poor, what cars they have, and my colleague Breznik has a Porsche. Breznik has a Porsche, which is over 20 years old and whose price is between EUR 5 and EUR 10 000 if you go to the mobile website.de. This is a Porsche colleague of Breznik's, and I don't know what Porsche for 100, 150, 200 thousand euros, as you wanted to present to my colleague Breznik. Even if I did. Kolga Breznik has worked for many years in the most successful companies in Germany and Austria and has earned such a Porsche as he has, by honest work, as opposed to Slovenian tycoons, which you support from SD, Desus, SMC and some other customers even more to the far left of the list A to Z.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u167	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor, but this will then take up the time-sharing, I suppose that is a requirement. The text shall be given by the Government's representative, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure, Mag. Clemen of the Thracian.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law amending the Motor Vehicle Act which we have received is not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 1 proposes deleting the word moped, which means that this makes it difficult to register easily on the basis of undisputed ownership, which, if we delete the word moped, would, of course, make it difficult for all other mopeds that reach speeds higher than 25 kilometres per hour. The proposed Article 2 proposes deleting the fifth paragraph of Article 50, which provides that the technical inspection of vehicles shall be carried out prior to the registration of that vehicle in the Republic of Slovenia if the vehicle is older than the time limit for the first technical inspection of the vehicle of the same category. If you drive or enter into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia moped, older or more like 20 years old, then it is perfectly logical to perform a technical examination for it before it is registered. Article 3 is similar to the proposed Article 3 of the Act, which was dealt with four hours ago, and the deletion of the transitional provision is again proposed. The transitional provision has expired, is fulfilled, is consumed and, of course, cannot be amended, this is unacceptable. I would point out that according to the initiatives, according to the conclusions of the Ministry of Infrastructure, an additional order on roads is to ensure the additional safety of participants, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Infrastructure, of course, is responsible for a little of the safety of participants in transport. And if anything happens, then the minister is usually guilty or the ministry with all the coworkers that he didn't do anything. All the measures introduced by ZMV-B in December 2016 are aimed at increasing safety for those who drive these mopeds that go up to 25 kilometres per hour or have a power of up to 4 kilowatts, they are said to be protected to a greater extent because they prescribe helmets because they prescribe insurance, because they prescribe registration and thus technical checks and so on, and they also introduce additional security for those participants who may not be guilty if they are hit by such mopeds, so that they can enforce compensation, they can pay for treatment or repair injury, if necessary, or they impose compensation claims on property, if they are said to hit the car or in the house. That was the wish, that was the purpose. According to the Ministry of Public Administration and Registration, procedures are ongoing, we have about a thousand new registered mopeds each week, the current number of 7 thousand 656, which is data from yesterday. Here I would also point out that manufacturers understand very well – there was a debate about what a moped is, what a bicycle – they know these things very well because they are in this activity, but the definition is also given in the law itself. On the other hand, I would like to point out this, Minister Gasperšič promised to be in the autumn – he is currently preparing a new ZMV-1 Motor Vehicle Act, which the Minister promised in the second half of the year. The law is being prepared and it will also provide for technical reviews, as proposed, for these mopeds for five years. All I'd do is point out the last thing, and then I'd be done with it. We like to compare ourselves very much with some countries, such as neighbouring Austria, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland. In all of these countries, vehicles or mopeds that go up to, say, 30 kilometers are usually required to be registered. 30 and 25, I believe we will agree that there is no such terrible difference. In all these countries to which we like to compare, registration is mandatory, insurance is compulsory and helmet is also mandatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u169	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether – and I have learned earlier – you still want the word. Yeah. Please login with the button to turn the microphone on. They should also apply, if you wish, both to the Government and to the representative of the proposers. You get the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I used to be asked by a colleague to apologize to him. Of course I don't intend to do that. I didn't say anything unrealistic. I was talking about the law proposed last year by the New Slovenia Embassy Group, which was fully supported by the opposition, but it was about providing for these vehicles and some kind of registration – they were talking about identification – and insurance. It is said that we are where we are today, with the difference that we still have in the Road Traffic Rules Act a certain obligation to wear a bicycle or motorcycle helmet. I would like to say that when we draw the line under all these debates – from that first proposal in April 2016 to today or until the adoption of the law that is being challenged today – the position of the National Assembly is the same, and that is that this area is being regulated, and not what the proposaler is now trying to say is repealing the mandatory registration provision and, in fact, all this work that has been going on lately will be completely destroyed. Once again, I will reiterate that the applicant here had no serious intentions if he had serious intentions, I would propose this law in January, February, March, maybe in April, at any time before, not to consider it after the registration obligation has already occurred and we have, if I have heard correctly, 7 000 600 registered vehicles already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u171	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia we truly regret that last May our law was not passed. It is now evident that our proposal has been significantly better. The main solutions proposed at the time in Novi Slovenija were the establishment of a minimum age limit for auxiliary bike drivers, the mandatory use of a safety helmet and the conclusion of compulsory basic insurance. In the event of an accident, liability would be covered from this insurance policy. And we also proposed identification plates, not license plates, not registrations, not technical checks, just IDs, identification plates. They would count these motor vehicles, I hope everyone understands that now, the numbers would give all these motor vehicles to facilitate identification of the causes of accidents or offences, so that maybe, I don't know, what camera or whoever has already recorded that the driver of vehicle number 267, I invented, caused an accident. That's what this is about. Practically no cost. The I.D. plate doesn't fit virtually anything. True, that's when the government said, uh, the problem is the information system. Too bad our marriage wasn't passed, I'd bring you a second-year student of computer science to get you this information system of motor vehicle identification numbers. In a way, this debate is also a good one today, and I am grateful to the chairman of the committee responsible, colleague Igor Zorčič, that he has now set a very clear line here, because some people, I regret it, think that New Slovenia has also participated in this draw today. You know, people don't follow in the details of our parliamentary work, and it's quite possible that this information noise happened somewhere. My friend Zorčič is a lawyer, I am an idealist and I thought he was an exact science, an exact matter, obviously he is not or at least not in Slovenia, which of course indicates a legal state that lives with or does not live with us. I predict that in the parliamentary group we will decide how we will react to the statement by our lawyer, Comrade Zorčič, that the ZPS – somehow in this sense, we will read the magnetogram – wrote that the New Slovenia bill sucks. I don't have enough time, because it would probably take four hours or a whole bunch of shit to list all the laws of this government, which the ZPS has written a mountain of comments on, and that's not the topic right now. We don't have any lobbying influences, we don't have anyone within our client who's doing technical checks or anything to boost someone's business, so we really wanted to make as little bureaucracy as possible to increase the safety of drivers and, in general, of road users. I truly regret that the train has now taken off, but our solution has not been adopted, now that we see this madness in the implementation of this law by SMC or colleague Zorčič. Now probably a lot of people in the coalition are beating themselves over the head and saying, it's a shame that we didn't go ahead with the New Slovenia bill. Many solutions, many subsystems are truly a victory for us, and in some ways I am very sorry that they come from this house of solutions that choke citizens and citizens. And of course that's a new charge, no one's gonna convince me that it's not. Where, then, will EUR 2 million come from, or how much will technical checks be made for all these motor vehicles that are being tanned by this law? We took this, you took it - you took it - from our citizens and citizens. Keep it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u173	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you again for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, Secretary of State! In his brief explanation, the Secretary of State said after his good information, which he had read earlier today or this week, that 7 thousand 500 of these owners had responded to the technical checks. Yeah, look, you put them in a corner, put them in front of the fact. After May 1st, 500 euros will be fined. You won't convince me that all those 7,000 500 bike owners with the auxiliary engine had saved money to go to the technical checkup, paid about 150 euros. They'll probably have to give up something. When I listened to the coalition debate — security alone. I certainly agree with all those who said that if it's a matter of security, you don't have to burden yourself with money. Let me tell you an example, two months and a half ago, I was at the founding of the cavalry lovers of horses, the owners were there, about 45, 50 people were there, and as a national constituency, I said a few sentences. After that speech, one of them asked me if we were going to put the plates on the horses in the National Assembly. And I have to say, I didn't even immediately understand what he was trying to tell me. When I asked him later, of course, we came to the point that he absolutely disagreed and that he was illogical about what we were doing in the National Assembly. I must also say that it was not clear to him what it meant in the National Assembly of Coalitions and Opposition, “you accepted this in the National Assembly”. I explain once again to the entire Slovenian public the role of the coalition and the opposition. In this case, we warned a lot last year. It seems unacceptable to me today from Mr Zorčič's proposer, and I firmly believe that we must start in Slovenia with the like of America when the Senate passes the law to know who proposed it in the National Assembly. Not that citizens and citizens then put this on everyone who walks in Slovenia or who lives in Slovenia. Let it be clear that this is the proposal of the Member of the largest coalition party, SMC, Igor Zorčič. And today, when we talk about it for three hours, he didn't admit on any segment that a mistake could be made, or that an article could be corrected or softened, so that it would be in the best interests of those who have these mopes, as we say in Styria. No, he's standing in a firm position and he's sure he's on the right track. If it were to raise or relieve the economy by 10 euros or get pensioners 10 euros at the same time, the coalition should meet 20 times and convene 100 press conferences, and it is unlikely that citizens and citizens would feel that way. To conclude, this law is a victory and an unjustified burden on the owners of these mopeds, citizens and citizens. I also recall the statement by the leader of the SD Group, Mr Matjaž Han, who was also misled. He said that before the vote. That he signed that the parliamentary group in the coalition had signed for this victory, but he apologized for not knowing it, and of course he would not vote in favour of this law so that he could sleep peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u175	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. As you know, because of the rules of procedure, because I have spent my time, I have not been able to replicate my colleague Zorčič, but in this short time I will try to make a formal conclusion in five minutes. Today's debate, today's proposal for the first reading of this novel law, once again, I am dedicated to the memory of the late engineer Janez Imperl, the development engineer Tomos, who brought to Olympus motorcycle sport up to 50 cubic metres. This debate is my great gift to all former workers, present workers of the Tomos factory, my gift to Adrian Bernetics, one of Tomos' greatest competitors, the multiple national champion, Mr Zdravek Matulji, who was the European champion with Tomos in 1982, and above all to all those citizens and citizens who have a healthy farm of intelligence, all technicians, engineers, all those who do not have a foreign science, but who can logically conclude. I will distance myself from today's lies, from the instigation of Mr. Zorčič. I think that a colleague from New Slovenia explained when he took from the context some of my discussions on the identification of bicycles with an auxiliary engine, I repeat, identification. By identifying people, they would not have the costs of ownership or of the Witnesses, they would not have any costs with technical checks, with approvals, with bicycles with auxiliary engines that were manufactured or imported into Slovenia after 2004, with special plates, there we talked about identification plates, here about normal tables with the changed form, and so on. So, just pretending, just lying. And lies are the immortal soul of communists and their ideological successors, as many intellectuals have said before me. Then the instigation of Mr Mahnič's debate, when Breznik talks about the social weakness of people who drive these mopeds and drives two Porsches on their own. Yeah, I had almost a new Porsche myself when I was 27 years old, and I earned it by denying it in hard capitalism. I also reached my house and everything else not at the expense of Slovenian people, many manipulations carried out by the transition left, but in hard capitalism, where I did not have uncles from behind like many Slovenes and Slovenes. But I saved these two cars from being abandoned because when we restored them together with Slovenian masters, I found a mistake on electronics in both of them. We have completely restored them and they are today, the only mistake they have said, is worth a few ten thousand or more euros. I am proud of this because we have proved that Slovenian engineers and technicians can also arrange, solve and restore complex matters. Let me finish with this law. I am myself, as you know, a great supporter of Slovenian technical intelligence, which has always been superior, including the former countries. And the Slovenian technical intelligence is the one that will lead us forward. My colleague Zorčič is just proving with a number of law professors who say that in the first year of law there should be at least some higher mathematics, so that such people do not come through the law college with such logic and such thinking. Today we did not get an answer why bicycles with an auxiliary engine speed of 25, why not normal bikes that can reach higher speeds. Today I've been talking about that if we have someone covering a motorcycle that reaches more than 25 kilometers an hour and is out of all standards, for this law enforcement agency, we have a police force that has to sanction such people. Because of some of these people, we cannot sanction an entire country, more than 20,000 holders of such type of motorcycles. I have spoken and I have asked for the support that the law goes to another reading, where we can fix possible matters, perhaps compromise to make the situation easier for people. It has been said that we are lying in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are deceiving because we are only putting the bill into effect now that the law is already in force. Usually people are the ones who go the last month before the law comes into force, and now it will be May 1st, and they are finally solving these matters. We could see these things in the newspapers, in the media, how they're being solved. We put the law into regular procedure right away in April, so we did it in such a time that we could fix it from the beginning. I think about one third of the owners of these wheels have now put these wheels into some sort of procedure. Two thirds remain and this law can literally be annulled and put into its original state. Therefore, dear colleagues, please use a little logic, a little social sense towards people, a little sense of justice in this country, deal with the security of people, by centralising Slovenia, to fix Slovenian roads, to teach people in primary schools about culture, traffic and so on. All of this leads to a smaller number of accidents and all of this leads to a better life in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you to all the debaters. I also conclude the debate with this. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes, that is, later. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the restriction of the consumption of alcohol after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 30 Members and Members, with Mr Janije Möderndorfer, first signed. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u178	Hello! Today, we have a law on the restriction of alcohol consumption, which is essentially a law of the Members. Emissary laws usually have a kind of route, usually a shorter route in the National Assembly, because they also have substantially smaller amendments or proposed changes to the law itself. The fact is that the marriage is more than 15 years old and has come about with one purpose, which is already the title name saying that we are talking about a law on the limitation of alcohol consumption, in order to reduce consumption in the country and thus contribute to a significantly healthier way of life and reduce the costs of alcohol. However, one of the measures, which proved to be ineffective and incomherent, was also the ban on pouring alcohol at sports events. These are events, which are the only such events in the country, identified as a critical group, which create the biggest problem of alcoholism in the Slovenian space. That is why the nickname, the then Hebrew Law, was given to him, that something must be done here. In the 15 years we have actually been able to find that some very special effect does not have this prohibition. We have found that alcohol is actually available everywhere before and after the event. More. There is mass shopping out of pure logic, which every prohibition always brings, which is: bet until you run out. By this law, however, all opposers, for not all are in favor of a verbal relationship: Sports and alcohol do not go together, which is more or less abused, since this verbal relationship has always been used to prevent athletes from drinking alcohol. Of course, this does not apply to all participants, for if that were true, then we could say otherwise: Alcohol and public events do not go together. We have never established this in the Slovenian space. So today alcohol is available everywhere, at all events, only at sports. The law itself also brings about those measures that all governments can bring into law to date, but they are not, and this is a significantly greater control and review of all public events, and in particular control over whether the inn, which also pours alcohol at a public event, is also the eyes of a young person. It's a so-called hidden buyer that it'll be possible to get someone who's breaking the law at work. I think that in the country we have adopted this social consensus that minors simply cannot and cannot drink alcohol for their own good. It's even lower if they're served. That is why we are correcting this in this law and at the same time introducing permits, because today at all the events where alcohol was poured, even if it was a violation of the law, there was nothing you could have done. With the proposed law, we will be able to withdraw this permit, but at the same time we believe and believe that the area of prevention is the most effective one, but it is always insufficient. Therefore, with a monetary commitment to obtain such a permit, which does not constitute a bureaucratic obstacle, since the authorisation is obtained at the same time as the notification of the permit for the event itself, which is now in force and subject to the law, the remuneration which could be intended for prevention shall be repaid. I believe myself, and I am sure that the law will also help to make a substantial better examination. I am sure that no prohibition has produced results, and wherever anything is prohibited, there is in fact an even greater joy and joy after what is forbidden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u179	The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Branko Zorman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u180	Dear colleagues, fellow Secretary of State! At its 23rd meeting, on 10 May 2017, the Health Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Consumption of Alcohol, submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, with the first signed by Janie Möderndorfer. No amendments were tabled within the time limit set. Mr Jani Möderndorfer gave the opening supplementary explanation. He pointed out that the Alcohol Restriction Act was adopted in 2003, on the basis of which a number of measures and ways of limiting alcohol were implemented. The amendment and amendment of the law find that some positive effects have certainly been brought about by the law, but it has been shown that all prohibitions and restrictions have not achieved the desired objective. The main objective of the bill is to increase the financing of sports organisations from their own resources and to regulate the limited possibility of watering drinks in order to prevent the illegal introduction or over-consuming of alcoholic beverages at public events. The novelty of the bill is the restriction of organisers with permission, which brings greater responsibility for the supply of drinks in accordance with the law, since in the event of non-compliance with the legislation they may lose their license. To organisers of most public sports events, additional revenues represent an important source of income for the performance of activities. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was presented by Mrs Mira Palhartinger. She stressed that the solution in which the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages at public events could only be allowed to the organisers of such events and only on the basis of authorisation, in terms of the freedom of the economic initiative in relation to the principle of equality, could be restrictive. The proposed arrangements should therefore be thoroughly assessed in the light of the urgency, appropriateness and proportionality of the measure, in view of the objective it pursues. While proposals for amendments to the Committee address some shortcomings, they do not fully address them. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mrs Jožica Maučec Zakotnik. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support that proposal. The opinion of the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the State Council was presented by mag. Peter Pozun. He stressed that the Commission does not support the proposed amendment of the law and considers it inappropriate to interfere with the legal measure which has so far proved to be good. In addition, representatives of the Health Council, the Medical Chambers of Slovenia and some NGOs presented their views on the draft law. In a broad and controversial debate, different views and opinions were expressed as to the proposed amendments to the law, as well as data on the use and consumption of alcohol between Slovenians and comparative data with other countries. The bill was therefore opposed by representatives of professional medical organisations and representatives of NGOs. Proponents of the bill pointed out that sports clubs in Slovenia have a poor financial position due to the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. This change would allow for additional income generated by sports clubs rather than guest bars nearby. The Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the bill. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of the first subparagraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u181	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Jožici Maučec Zakotnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have before us a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption, which after 15 years allows the sale of alcohol again at sports events. This would increase the availability of alcohol in a country which has no problems with the harmful consequences of its use. Increasing the financial resources of sports organisations by selling alcohol is contrary to the basic objective of the current law, which is to limit the consumption of alcohol and to prevent the harmful consequences of its use. Equalisation of the treatment of the pouring of alcoholic beverages at all public events, which will increase the accessibility and promotion of alcoholic beverages, does not follow the objectives of the legislation in force. The bill is contrary to international strategic documents and scientific evidence, which include, among the most effective measures to mitigate the harm, the right limitation of access to alcohol, the increase in the price of alcoholic beverages, the restriction of advertising and the early recognition and treatment of those who are at risk of drinking or who are dependent on alcohol. The proposed law does not follow. On the contrary. With the new arrangement, we increase the number of sales places and opportunities for advertising alcoholic beverages. This will contribute to an increase in the risk and harmful use of alcohol, and particularly worrying, to more frequent drinking of alcohol, particularly among young people who are most vulnerable to the promotion of alcohol in connection with sport and sports. The new regulation states that drinking alcohol with sport is inseparable and generally acceptable. Every day in Slovenia, for reasons exclusively related to alcohol, two people die and ten people are admitted to the hospital, including children. Let me specifically expose traffic damage. Alcoholised participants caused a thousand 855 accidents in 2016, of which 37 were fatal and 153 were serious injuries. The proportion of alcoholised accidents in recent years has increased. Economic damage is already high today and includes both health and social and material consequences. The assessment of the health and other costs associated with alcohol consumption in Slovenia was on average EUR 234 million per year between 2011 and 2014. With excise duties on alcoholic products, we do not yet cover the damage caused. While the Ministry of Health will devote more attention and money to preventive measures in this area in the coming years, the expected impact can be eliminated by further normalising the drinking of alcoholic beverages brought about by the amendment proposal. Otherwise, the bill is not appropriate. Some provisions of the bill are unclear, such as how to determine the amount of the fee for the sale of alcoholic beverages, and inappropriate, such as the provision that before the establishment of the register alcohol may be sold at sports events without permission. Although the main reason for the proposed changes is to increase the funding of sports organisations, the applicant did not give any approximate assessment of how much money will be collected and how and why it will be used. This fact is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service, which notes that the proposed solutions should be reconsidered and presented in a broader and more comprehensive manner their purpose and consequences. The proposed solutions will have financial implications for the state budget, the organisers and, indirectly, for the guests who are not fully and adequately represented in the draft law. For all these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposed legal changes. The competent commission of the Council of State has also confirmed this and is opposed by the professional public and non-governmental organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u183	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you for your words, Mr President, but everyone has a very nice greeting. We have received a proposal for a new law on the limitation of alcohol consumption, on which we do not have a unified opinion in our parliamentary group. Part of the parliamentary group supports the bill and part two is against the proposal of the novel. Some of our Members also contributed to the signing with the desire that when alcohol can also be sold at sports events, it will help to improve the poor financial situation of many sports clubs. With this amendment, all organisers of public events should be authorised to sell alcoholic beverages, of course under certain conditions. Licences will be issued by administrative units upon payment of a fee for a period of 12 months. This would allow for a system of alcohol control at all public events, which should also increase security, as the provisions of the law offer the possibility of withdrawal in the event of serious infringements. At the same time, one of the statutory warnings for advertising alcoholic beverages will have to be published in a visible place on a poster or board, and there will also be increased control over the sale of drinks to minors, limited alcohol content in the liquor to be sold, and so on. The second part of our parliamentary group, however, joins the government's view that the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further consideration, as its possible adoption would increase the risk and harmful use of alcohol among the inhabitants of our country, as the number of places of sale would increase, which would increase the availability of alcohol. Some of our Members also agree that it is extremely inappropriate for sports and alcohol to be linked under the pretext of increasing the financing of sports companies by promoting the sale of alcoholic beverages at sports events. Such a release of access to alcohol will in no way help to achieve the goal that we have as a state set in accordance with public health guidelines, namely to reduce the number of over-indulgence alcohol drinkers from 10.2 % to 8 % by 2025. The opinion of the Government is also joined by the National Institute for Public Health, which considers that the proposed solution does not protect the health of the people of Slovenia and stresses that alcohol in Slovenia is a major public health and social problem. In 2015 the consumption of pure alcohol increased and exceeded the limit of five litres per year per person, which puts us firmly above the European average. In doing so, all opponents of the amendment also warn many NGOs that the costs of eliminating the consequences of alcohol consumption outweigh the benefits of the country for the sale of alcohol. Our vote on supporting the law will not be uniform in our parliamentary group. While part of the parliamentary group sees the bill as an effective means to improve the financial image of Slovenian sports clubs and societies, part two considers today an extremely sad day for public health in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u185	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law that lies ahead of us seems to be pleasing, so the lust is little affection. Although different from the last, the separation in support remains even greater. On the one hand, there are those who believe that alcoholics at sports events cannot be prevented and that by extending the restrictions on alcohol consumption to all public events, we are actually taking a step forward. On the other hand, those who consider the proposal to be a step backwards and that additional measures should be considered to limit alcohol consumption. The objective pursued by the proposer of this novelty completely deviates from the basic orientation of the current alcohol restriction and consumption law, which is aimed at limiting the use of alcohol and measures to prevent the harmful effects of alcohol use. The aim of the proposal is purely of a financial nature. The applicant also submits that the new legal solutions would have a positive impact on the finances of smaller sports companies as they would allow for additional means of action. Given the flat-rate indication of the positive financial effects on sports companies for which the applicant does not submit calculations, however, it is correct to mention the indirect negative financial effects on the state budget. As the newspaper said last week, our medical bills cost more than €150 million per year for drinking. Along with other consequences such as violence and crime, costs are measured at hundreds of millions. On the other hand, only €90 million of alcohol excise duty is poured into the budget. While not only by drinking but also by its consequences, we are falling far behind in the adoption of effective alcoholic policy measures. The proposal we have on the table today is also not an effective one. In 2003, in the Group of Social Democrats, we considered that the Act on the Limitation and Consumption of Alcohol was necessary and that its adoption was the responsibility of any serious State that cared for the physical, mental and social health of its people. Most of us have not changed our minds, so we cannot give our support to such a neoliberal concept of thinking and action that the goal increases all resources. 14 years after the adoption of a more restrictive legal substance to limit alcohol consumption, we find that nothing has changed or is very small. Not enough. Tolerance is still too high, and alcoholics are getting more and more. Instead of having suggestions on the table to reduce our infamous drinking statistics, we have one that he's going to blow up. It's definitely a step back. In a country where almost a million people are directly affected by alcoholism, it should be for each of us to turn on the red alarm sign. Perhaps a million sounds excessive, but in Slovenia it is estimated that between 150 and 200 thousand alcoholics. If only the closest family members are affected, the average Slovenian family has three members, thus suffering more than half a million citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, since alcoholism is not merely stopped by domestic walls, an even wider circle of people should be included in this number. How many children are affected by this most unrelenting social illness, how much violence causes, how many premature deaths, how many social distresses, traffic accidents with fatal outcome. While the proposer modifies a two-year-old proposal under the pretext that the restrictions on the flow of alcohol will be even greater, but at the same time it makes it even more non-life-like, possibly constitutionally controversial in terms of limiting the freedom of economic initiative and bureaucraticly complicated, we do not have an assessment of the financial effects, there are no clear procedures, which in practice may constitute a severe restriction on the functioning of economic operators and the restriction of competition. In our parliamentary group, we weighed a lot and finally decided that even though some of us do not mind having a beer at a sports event, such an intervention is disproportionate, as the Law and Law Service has also warned us, so the proposal for our majority support does not enjoy it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u187	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, chairman. Contrary to the Members of the SMC who turned the board 180 degrees, the Socialists remain in our original position. We are opposed to State authorities being unduly involved in personal decisions in any area, and we are therefore also committed to the legalisation of cannabis. In accordance with this principle, we are not opposed to pouring alcoholic beverages at sports events, and we are not against the fact that sports companies generate additional income through this complementary activity. Of course, under certain conditions. At the time of consideration of the original proposal, we have already stated what our main condition is. It is necessary to ensure that the revenues spent on the development of mass sport are not for the financial rehabilitation of imported professional clubs. The organisers are given a monopolies for filling, and this income should therefore be used in the public interest. Maintenance of any “falsified” part of spectacular sports is not a public interest, nor is it a public interest to subsidise commercial sports. However, it is a public interest to allow all citizens to engage in sports, if possible free of charge, and in any case as cheap as possible. From the secession of Slovenia we are moving away from this ideal, and this should be addressed and corrected. However, the current proposal does not ensure that the revenue from the pouring of alcohol will be spent on mass sports, does not prevent this revenue from being spent on the financial recovery of imported professional club projects. And we have a lot of clubs like this in the real world. The proposed right to pour alcohol will also benefit professional clubs already bearing the names of different Heineken breweries rather than small sports companies. These are all the reasons why we will not support this proposal. We are convinced that also in the area of financing sport, what we socialists represent in all areas applies. First, we must separate a profitable activity from an activity of public interest. Then this activity in the public interest shall be supported by public funds collected in a solidarity manner. It is said not only with what excise duties are already too high, but with fair taxation of high incomes, corporate profits and capital, because we are in all categories on the European Union's tail. As there will be no debate today, I must also draw attention to the duplicity of the Modern Centre Party. Two years ago, SMC slightly rejected an almost identical proposal. Member Grošelj Košnik said, for example, I will quote her: “Acquiring resources by selling alcohol is not a suitable way to promote sport.” End of quote. She wasn't the only one. I quote Mr Zorčič, who warned that the number of those who would leave the sport event under the influence of alcohol would increase significantly. None of this, which is why SMC rejected this law two years ago, has changed to this day. But today the SMC intends to vote in favour. More. Most of their Members have even signed this proposal. If I were a SMC elector myself, I'd feel a little "stupid". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u189	Mr. Miha Kordish, we know that this position was somewhat at the border. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u190	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The National Institute for Public Health on its website states: »Restricting the availability of alcohol is one of the most effective alcoholic policy measures. This includes the ban on the sale and supply of alcohol at sports events. Sports events are places where drinking alcoholic beverages increases the risk of accidents and violence and worse breaches of public order and peace.” In Novi Slovenija we are aware that alcohol in Slovenia is a social problem and we are at the European summit on the quantity of alcohol consumed per capita. There is a higher risk of accidents and violence and of serious violations of public order and peace at sports events due to drinking alcoholic beverages. Studies abroad show that sports fans are more often the target group of advertising and promotion activities of the alcohol industry and that risk alcohol consumption is more common among them than among others. The Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption was adopted in 2003 with the aim of limiting its wider accessibility and consumption. The law also provided that the pouring of alcoholic beverages at sports events was not allowed. We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption proposed by Member Möderndorfer and adopted by the committee responsible after a lengthy discussion. The proposal for a law contains provisions restricting the prohibition of the sale or supply of alcohol at sports events with a permit, provided that they do not exceed 15 % by volume of alcohol. This is already the second attempt by Member Möderndorfer, who is substantively linked. The law's claim that the innkeepers are the only ones serving money at sports events is inconclusive, as sports clubs for venues at guest events charge rents or receive profits from sales. The proposer shall justify the proposed amendment of the law with financial effect for the clubs which organise the competition. While there are indications in the media that this change will financially strengthen only large clubs, small sports clubs fighting for each euro will not have the desired financial impact since the adoption of this law. Sport and clubs should be saved in a different way than we have already proposed in Nova Slovenije, but with tax reliefs by the sponsor, you have not supported our proposal. A law allowing individual alcoholic beverages to be poured at sports events should be prepared so that everyone is equal and everyone can be sold under the same conditions and also under the same taxes. In the New Slovenia Group, we do not have a unanimous position on support or opposition to the bill. This is a proposal for amendments where the arguments are both fairly balanced.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u191	Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. We will vote in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in accordance with the Constitution in our conscience, but two problems must be raised before the vote. First time. The warnings of professions, NGOs and legal and legal services should be taken into account. Another time. The proposal does not solve the systemic financing of sport. More. It allows for corruption risks. And the third time. What kind of signal do we give to young people? Of course, financing for sport needs to be regulated, but we have problems in all areas. Also in basic financing through sports betting, where money runs abroad. So there are other systems, but we don't use them. We could learn something from history. For example, I give the Roman state. The problem that arose was the economy that relied solely on cheap labour. They had financial problems and they had high taxes. How similar to the present situation! And how can we solve such problems? With propaganda actions based on the principle of bread and games, which we can translate according to the current proposal: beer and games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u193	Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u194	In the SMC Group, we also discussed this law, especially because it was a dilemma, because the parliamentary group was the first law, the Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption refused. It is therefore important to note once again that today’s law has been amended and is different from the previous one. We're not talking about the same law, we're talking about the same content. More. We are talking in particular about the proposed improvements, which to this day none of those who are now full of mouths, what needs to be done, have taken a single step. Not a single step in 15 years. And that's the key problem. Therefore, today it is not true to report to the SMC Group that it is turning — no. There's a new proposal. And far more than necessary, today we are talking only about whether alcohol will be allowed at sports events or not. But we are not talking about what the intentional opponents do not want to talk about. This is, which are improvements. [[..]] A hidden buyer. The full review of all public events. Nor is it true that it is not clear how to determine the fee. Of course it's clear, very clear. The Ministry alone will have to make this fee very clear in terms of size. Such criteria already exist. Third time. The change is also made in the field of legal persons involved in alcohol. Today, against someone who has a company registered as part of a company, the inspection service can also act if it violates the law. But if someone with a legal personality is espa, the state can't hurt him. These are things that no one has fixed in this marriage in 15 years. Therefore, to say that this law is not an improvement is, in fact, just turning away from the fact that some prefer to say that they have banned alcohol at a sports event and wash their hands and say, “We have taken care of our drinking culture in the country.” There is something more important to be said in a loving way. The organiser is the only one to respond to any event for order, security, organisation and also to the consequences of drinking alcohol at his event. He can't do that today. Even though there are drunken viewers who do this before or after the game. According to the new organizer, he gets scissors and linen, and he also bears responsibility. If the organizer breaks the rules, he'll get away with it. Will they get bigger sports clubs? Excuse me, the funds that will be collected from this address are not large enough to allow the sports drive in large clubs to function at all. For small clubs, this means much more progress. The calculations will only be when we do this for the first time, because we have not had this before today, so these calculations can't be at all. Therefore, it is misleading to operate with information that we have not served with this information. In the end, let me finish with one thing. Misusing the word, how many accidents there are, how many alcoholics there are in the country, how alcohol is abused, at the cost of bringing the same people to a sports event and labeling them as a critical problem group, which needs to be sanctioned and distinguished from all other events such as cultural events, firefighting events and everything else, seems extremely unfair to me. You want prohibition? Yeah. Then prohibition must be made at all public events. Do you have that courage? You can't because they'll take you away. In the SMC, there will be majority support – not everyone will vote in favour – but significantly greater progress. However, I expect the Ministry of Health to make some concrete progress at last, not only does the reports indicate how much will be earmarked. Then the funds are redistributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u195	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on this bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the Assembly. I interrupt this agenda item and the 30th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u196	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the order in which the agenda items have been dealt with. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law on Sport in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 22 May 2017. The amendments of the New Slovenia Group under number 1 and the SDS Group amendment under number 2 to 2 are essentially the same, so we will vote on them together. The amendments are substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Articles 6, 16, 51 and 54. If the amendment is not adopted, these amendments will become irrelevant to this Article. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 6 has become irrelevant. As the amendments of the New Slovenia Group and the SDS Group to Article 2 have not been adopted, they have also become amendments to Article 16 of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the SDS Group of Ambassadors. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 49. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 34 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD Group to Article 34(2). This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Articles 85 and 88. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment will become irrelevant to Articles 85 and 88. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 38 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, it will become an amendment by the SDS Group to Article 38, paragraph 2, irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 38 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 49. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendments of the New Slovenia Group and the SDS Group to Article 2 have not been adopted, they have become amendments to Article 51. The amendments of the New Slovenia Group under number 1 and the SDS Group amendment under number 2 to 52 are essentially the same, so we will vote on them together. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 52. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendments of the New Slovenia Group and the SDS Group to Article 2 have not been adopted, they have become amendments to Article 54. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 62 under number 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 49. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 62nd Article under number 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The Sports Act, as brought to the table by the Government, has a fundamental problem in not solving the poor social situation of athletes. As we follow the sport on large screens and so on, I can already see the stars of Slovenian sport, who are fortunate to receive individual sponsorship. But here are all the other athletes and sports workers, so experts, who have found themselves in an unenviable position. Let's take a quick look at the second, third football league, look at the handball and so on, and very quickly we'll find that most of these people are in the essays, that they work for a lousy payday, and that they don't enjoy any social security. How did the government and its coalition approach this problem? So they're legalizing the existing situation. All the undercover jobs that happen inside sports. Actually, there's more. Sport, majority work, sports and professional workers continue to step up by abolishing the Labour Relations Act in Articles 59 and 60 by citing the specificities of the sports sector. If the Labour Relations Act allows the extension of temporary contracts up to a maximum of two years, the Sports Act in Article 60 explicitly suspends this provision and allows the 10-year duration of contracts to be bound. Do you imagine? From year to year for a period of ten years, an employer can pay you poorly, force you, and bring you a new contract every year. This is the legalisation of all that employers are now doing illegally in the labour market. And such practices will not be possible at the time of the adoption of the Sports Act, because all these contracts can go to the Labour Court, which will open the Sports Act, will find that this is not a covert working relationship, but an exception to the law. In the United Left, we have therefore already tabled amendments to this law on the Committee, which remove all these problematic suspensions of labour law. Unfortunately, they were rejected. Therefore, we have tried the amendment to the 62nd Article for this plenary session of the National Assembly, in which we stipulate that all are subject to regular employment falling under these categories only exceptionally, but exceptionally, in some cases espa, if the conditions for regular working relationship are not met.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u198	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u199	President, thank you for your word. Otherwise, you went to our amendment very quickly to vote, so allow us to take advantage of the second option, which is to support the amendment of the United Left Group. In the SDS Group, we have already proposed amendments to Articles 59 and 60 on the Committee itself, which would make Slovenian athletes roughly the same as all other citizens, in short, so that they do not be deprived of the labour rights conferred on them by the Labour Relations Act. But when we look at what you have accepted at the committee meeting itself, and since you are likely to reject this amendment, you are also making Slovenian athletes for second-class citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What it says here is contrary to the Labour Relations Act. Systemic legislation on the protection of the rights of athletes is neither spirit nor hearing, nor are you giving them the opportunity to further regulate their rights through collective agreements. And thirdly, what you do with fixed-term contracts is worth not only the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, but probably what footballers discussed yesterday when choosing the best athlete in this area, and it is likely that handballers and basketball players and probably others will join. What you are doing is inconsistent with the Labour Relations Act and is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I am almost certain of this, and I hope that the Constitutional Court will also attach itself to it. All those who talk a lot about athletes as carriers of our national consciousness, our recognition, with these provisions of Articles 59 and 60, you are working from them, as the colleagues of the United Left say, you are making second-class citizens out of them because you do not respect the protection of work rights. So much so that we know who will take pictures next time in Slovenian athletes, when they succeed, and press the button against such amendments, which would at least partially help to eradicate the second-rateness of Slovenian athletes. In the SDS Group we will support this amendment, although we believe our amendment is better.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u200	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. In fact, Micah explained, and I'm only going to stop by because I'm actually a little tiny today, very much, but because this list of sports ends only in three collective sports. It is already worse for volleyball players that the sabre, which is very quality in Maribor, I am not talking about athletics at all, but all the way to me by a lovely curling. The National Assembly should also be able to sit in the front row when it discusses sport a little bit. I had to warn you about that. Of course, I will vote in favour of this amendment, because in the United Left we do not support such man-cutting policies as this government supports, but some in front of it. This morning I was at the FDV, where the scientific conference on Slovenia as a country of prosperity was held. And if I listen to that, and if I listen to that, it seems like it's high time for you to get mixed up in the next election with your duality in this country. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u202	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 85. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 52 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 88. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 7. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday, 30 May, in the framework of the votes. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Draft Law on Testing in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 22. 5. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 51. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you, President. In principle, it is difficult to say anything negative about this marriage. In the normative framework, it brings something that we hope will also become a mental structure of criminal policy in Slovenia to start with softer forms of punishment, but it has one very big mistake, which is why we have also tabled this amendment. The transitional provisions provided for in Article 51 provide that, as from the date of the entry into force of this Act, the staff of CSDs engaged in tasks already in charge of the performance of the test tasks will be relocated to the newly established Probation Authority. There's one problem with that. This transitional provision states that these staff members will expire one day before the entry into force of the employment contract and will be employed on a new day on this board, which puts them in an inadequate position on the one hand. First of all, because they're going to be forced into a new administration without anyone asking them if they want to. Secondly, because they will not be able to pass on their advancements that they have already achieved in their jobs and because they will be able to enter the lowest appointment in this job by means of a new job. We find such a solution totally inappropriate, so we propose deleting this provision and propose that the Ministry prepare appropriate conditions for a call to be made, that those who want to do this work on a new board register this invitation and then go there. In this way, we will also preserve those employees who want to stay at CSD and do not empty the already existing human resources crisis at CSD and allow those who want to manage these tasks to move to this so-called new administration. By repeating, this solution seems totally unacceptable to us, so we are proposing a deletion and at the same time binding our support for the law on the adoption of this amendment, otherwise we will abstain from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u204	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 52. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment and the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment to the amended law was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture by Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 9. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 50. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 23. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment to the amended law was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour and no one is against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 by means of an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23 July. 5. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 4. We're voting. There were 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against and 50 votes against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, submitted to the National Assembly by the MEP mag. Alenka Bratušek, not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 50 votes against and 23 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 39th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017-2019. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 81 Members and Members attended, 56 votes against and 4 votes against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Support Environment for Entrepreneurship in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 22. 5. 2017. The amendment of SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 2 shall be substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposers to Article 6. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 6 will become irrelevant. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2. We're voting. 81 Members and Members attended, 76 votes against and 4 votes against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 6. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 4. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 2 and 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left we strongly oppose this law. We have also opposed previous amendments. What's up? Very simple, this law confers a single set of powers on the organisations of capital, small capital and large capital in the form of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. They already have a lot of access to the legislative process, they are formally involved in the discussions, they have lobby networks, they can bend the policies of the hands. Now, however, this informal state of pressure is actually legalized and capital organisations will be able to write their own laws. The State hereby renounces its jurisdiction, its manoeuvre and, last but not least, its fundamental task. This fundamental task is to ensure public interest. This means that the economy controls, regulates and, if necessary, intervenes directly. This role, like the so-called Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act, is denied by the State, as if capital and the rich already do not have all their leverage in their hands in this country. In the United Left we will oppose this law, we think that it should be completely rejected and should not be seen at all in the light of the day in the National Assembly, because it is vehement with any public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u206	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 4. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2017 under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Comprehensive Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a comprehensive early treatment of preschool children with special needs is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 40th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decree on the recasting of the University of Maribor. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against and none against. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 41st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I find that the decision has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Authority Act and the resolution fund of banks under the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Income in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 4. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 20. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 38th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is adopted. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, 76 were voted in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the text of the authentic interpretation, first of all to decide on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy, which fully replaces the text of the authentic interpretation. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 78 were voted in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Mutuality Law under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. More so because of the minutes and the possible constitutional assessment of this law, in particular Article 23 thereof, let me say the following. We have not supported the law on the committee in particular because, in article 23, it brings about a situation which I would stress, which the judiciary might have misunderstood and there would be massive absolution, if I may say so, of abandoning prosecution in particular of those suspected banking crime. That is why I think that the Ministry should closely monitor the implementation of this Article in practice and if what could have occurred, as I said, appeared to react in some way, whether Parliament would then adopt an authentic explanation or whatever. In fact, we will support this law with this concern and with this warning and also with bitter taste. The essence of the law, which concerns the social rights of workers as well as the persecution of persons who go to foreign armies and there, I will say, operate, should have been adopted some year and a half or two years ago. Support for the law and a warning to article 23, which could be misunderstood in judicial practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u208	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 4. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 20. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 20. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yesterday afternoon, we had a small group sitting here in Parliament, who once for a change did what Parliament was supposed to do – we had Parliament – we did not read from leaves. The debate has been about one pressing issue, the fact that this country has never actually had a serious housing policy and still does not have it today. We're taking some kind of law here because the Constitutional Court forced us to do so. A year ago, when this problem arose, we detected it, we wanted to remove it in the United Left immediately, otherwise with the change of another law, and we were transported. Like most of the opposition's proposals, including a group of unrelated Members. We were driven by an explanation that is now becoming such a mess that we are looking for systemic solutions and will somehow get them. It is proposed that the amended Housing Law will come into consideration at the end of this year or at the beginning of the following year. In view of the aggregate situation of this coalition and the state of Parliament, we will then get back to some sort of stigmatism and in fact we will not become seriously involved in housing policy, which would in fact be a time-consuming time, including the fact that leases are also being regulated, including that Slovenia is a wealthy society and a country, so that it can produce several thousand apartments annually. But then the concrete barons wouldn't serve on it. I fear that in this reference, unfortunately, we will not solve this problem, but most of you are full of mouths and patriotism and young people and families, and I do not know what I am doing sometimes, not only to me, but also to other comrades and comrades of the United Left to vomit. We will support this amendment because we really have to. However, the damage you have done to people who are not guilty of not being able to live in some suitable rental apartments is a policy that has ruled this country for a quarter of a century, and of course you will not fix it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u210	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 2. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies to Young Families for the First Resolution of the Housing Problem. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u211	Dear Members, good day, or now almost a good evening! I have listened carefully to the conclusion, I have already feared that the decision will be drawn up, that the law is inappropriate for further consideration, but the conclusion is that the law is suitable for further consideration, which means that the New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of this decision and I hope and I wish that a larger part of this Parliament will also. The law offers a very simple option: it provides young people with additional tools to solve their housing problem or solve the first housing problem. In particular, it offers more favourable loans and concrete financial support to young people when solving their first housing problem. We have already admitted fairly in the debate yesterday that we are aware that this law will not solve all the problems young people have, but it can be an important tool for young people, but for those who can, to come to an apartment. This law in no way limits and reduces the possibility that the government will decide and establish another tool. There was a speech yesterday about housing cooperatives. The government can encourage them. There was talk about rent-to-buy, which means that what you're giving for rent ultimately counts as a purchase. There have been some other very useful and concrete proposals, but it has been said to all that the Government is obliged to establish a financial environment, especially the tax environment, so that these things can be realized. Today, as it is said, there is an extremely simple and concrete product ahead of you, i.e. lower interest and more concrete financial assistance, not only for the purchase of an apartment, but also for the rental of an apartment, because some Members of the debate yesterday so superficially went to the law and said that it was only for the purchase, but not for rent. This law also provides for the possibility of renting an apartment. Young people can decide for themselves whether to rent or buy. In the past, this scheme has worked well. Yesterday, too, it was pointed out that it had mainly produced good results in rural youth, since in rural areas it was possible to reach housing on the basis of this austerity scheme. In the city, this success was slightly lower because housing prices went up at the time of the conjuncture, but the scheme produced results. I propose that today this law continues its path, but to give young people additional tools to solve the first housing problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u212	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the ZL Group of Ambassadors, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. We welcome the efforts of another part of the opposition, but it's a shame they didn't come to us. Why? We have different expertise in various parliamentary groups. We have quite a bit of knowledge in our parliamentary group about housing policy. I cannot agree with the proposaler, and we have also said this in our position that the housing scheme worked. In the first five years of the housing scheme, the dwellings were irritable by 76%. For most of these people, some have stopped saving in this housing scheme even earlier, this housing scheme has not made it possible to do what it has provided. I'm also going to repeat what I said last year, and again, and also yesterday. So far, we still have a bank in the state pastries. One of you is very wooden to sell, and even here I agree that Mr Arhar does not sell, and we are probably very divided by the world view and the political line – the United Left and Mr Arhar. If anything, as I said before, this should be resolved through serious consideration in order to finally reach housing policy. And if there was, then this bank would be the bank that would allow those who could afford to save themselves. However, if we look at the macroeconomic situation in Slovenia and look at the situation of young people, we know well that many will not be able to afford it. Most under 45 years of age will find it very difficult to afford this saving, even if this law is passed, unless parents who may be lucky to be among the richest 10% will co-finance it. And that's the problem. The problem is that you've been running a company for 25 years because the value added to the Mercator employee is 18,000 gross. Most of you don't understand the basics of the economy, I'm sorry. For this reason, too, let alone systematic housing policy work, we will vote against this law in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u214	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 50. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 42nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on the effective implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park. As the amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour and no one is against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I conclude with this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Public Procurement Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 19. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 77 Members and Members were present and 55 were voted against and 20 were present. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There were 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against and 47 votes against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 28th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision.The proposal for a law amending the Motor Vehicle Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, 30 were voted against and 46 were against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption by Short Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. What explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. The applicant chose a completely wrong way to help sports organisations. We are aware that funding there is problematic, but, of course, it cannot represent a solution. We have a big problem with alcohol in Slovenia. If we are aware that tobacco is harmful and taken as such, we are taking alcohol on the other side in a totally different way than something acceptable, which is part of our culture. Unfortunately, we're wrong about that. Alcohol is extremely harmful. Over 800 people die each year as a result of the direct consequences of alcohol consumption. Alcohol also belongs to the first group of carcinogenic substances. Slovenia is lagging behind in the adoption of effective alcohol policy measures for the European Communities and all our regions in Slovenia are caused by the harmfulness of alcohol consumption for the European Community. So the reasons why alcohol is not yet advertised and promoted are large. I would ask you that if you do not take into account the opinions of the Government and the Ministry, at least take into account the opinions of the professions, all organizations involved in alcoholism, alcohol and so strongly oppose. I will vote against this proposal myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u216	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 20. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Over 30. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of Protocol No. 15 Amendments to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother's work, which it reported to the assembly in writing. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much. It's not Friday, though. Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Protocol No 1 to the EEA Agreement should therefore be amended accordingly, 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is the result of the multi-annual efforts of the Member States of the Council of Europe to further reform the European Court of Human Rights, which has been facing backlogs for many years and to increase the effectiveness of the Court. I'll limit myself to showing some of the changes the protocol brings. First, it stresses the greater role and responsibility of national courts. It underlines the principle of subsidiarity, which means that the primary responsibility is to protect the rights and freedoms set out in the Convention of the State and their national courts, while this conduct remains under the supervision of the European Court of Human Rights, which remains the first to be responsible for the authoritarian interpretation of the Conventions and its Protocols. The second point is that the Protocol sets the maximum age limit for judges who may be proposed by the Member States to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for less than 65 years. The Protocol also removes the possibility for the parties to object to the decision of the Senate to refer the matter to the Grand Chamber if it assumes that the decision in the case may constitute a derogation from established case law. The aim of this measure is to contribute to the harmonisation of the case law of the Court. For individuals, it is important to amend the Protocol in order to shorten the period during which the parties can lodge a complaint with the European Court of Justice, from the current 6 to the current 4 months. Slovenia has actively participated and continues to participate in discussions on the reform of the ECHR, both at the professional level and at the political level. Slovenia supported the reform and also participated in the drafting of the protocol. Let me stress that the Protocol has already ratified 33 Member States of the Council of Europe, but that the Protocol is not optional and will only enter into force once it has been ratified by all countries, that is 47 States parties to the European Convention on Human Rights. If you, honourable Members, do so today, we will draw closer to this goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u218	Since the parent working body did not adopt any amendments during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the minima convention on mercury. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Jožica Maučec Zakotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u219	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have before us the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Living Silver. By means of the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia shall take into its legal order the Convention, which was adopted after multi-annual coordination and preparation and for accession on 10 October 2013, when the Republic of Slovenia also acceded to it. By the end of April this year 128 countries had signed the Convention. It was currently ratified by 52 countries, and recently by the European Union and 7 Member States. The Convention will enter into force 90 days after the submission of the 50 instrument of ratification and then 90 days after the submission of the instrument of ratification for each country. Member States of the European Union shall endeavour to ratify the Convention so that as many as possible they can participate as full members at the first Conference of the Parties, which will be held in September this year. The Convention is a comprehensive international legal framework for the protection of human health and the environment against mercury. It introduces control over the acquisition, trade and use of mercury and its compounds, as well as a set of other measures to address its harmful effects. States shall encourage activities to reduce the release of mercury into the air, water and soil, and the rehabilitation of contaminated areas. It further promotes the mobilisation of the health sector, awareness-raising and education, and establishes mechanisms for research, international cooperation, information exchange and assistance. The proposed law before you today lays down, in accordance with these provisions, in addition to the official and inter-sectorally harmonised Slovenian text of the Convention, the competent authorities for its implementation at the national level. These tasks will be carried out by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment and Space. This definition of competence reflects and complements their already existing tasks in the field of health and environment protection and the powers to implement the already established legislation on mercury.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u220	A little peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u221	In the exercise of these powers, they will cooperate with Slovenian institutions already operating in areas governed by the Convention, such as the Institute of Joseph Stefan and the Center for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija. As a result of the long-standing acquisition of mercury in Idrija, the Republic of Slovenia has actively participated in the process of establishing a globally binding agreement in order to monitor, manage and remedy the consequences of this activity. The Convention sets out a provision on cooperation in the areas of capacity-building and technical assistance between existing national, regional and sub-regional centres also opens wide opportunities for international cooperation and sharing of knowledge, experience and programmes implemented in Slovenia by the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija, as well as other established research institutes, in particular the Institute of Joseph Stefan. In the European Union, the responsibility for implementing the Convention is shared between the EU and the Member States. Much of the provisions of the Convention are subject to harmonised legislation and are already being adopted in the European Union by a number of chemical and environmental regulations. In order to ratify the Convention in the Member States, some other areas falling within the competence of the European Community had to be regulated in advance. In 2015 and 2016, an intensive preparation and coordination of the European mercury regulation was carried out in the European Union, which is now concluded. By this Regulation, Member States have adopted certain common implementing rules for the implementation of the Convention in their legal order, while at the national level regulating areas falling within national competence. Only on the basis of such a coordinated process of the Convention can the Member States ratify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u222	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u223	Since the mercury mine Idrija has been operating in Slovenia for more than 500 years, our country was already involved in developments at the time of preparation for the European Union's strategy on mercury to address the issue of mercury at the global level with a view to protecting human health and the environment. It is precisely because of the direct link with the acquisition of mercury in Idrija by monitoring, controlling and remedying the consequences that the general concern and interest share that the issue of mercury is also being addressed at the global level. Therefore, the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Living Silver is a key act. The implementation of the Convention is intertwined with the common policy of the European Union and the implementation of its legislation and the implementation of the strategy for joint action in the field of mercury. In Idrija and Slovenia, a number of specific knowledge has been developed and maintained concerning all areas of production, processing, use and ecological and health issues of mercury. In these areas, Slovenia is one of the world's leaders. It is because of these facts that the State Public Institute for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija, which has already taken over the activities of maintaining the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring of the influential area of the Idrija mine, has also included in its statutes and strategic guidelines cooperation in the implementation of the Minamat Convention on Living Silver in agreement with the competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia and with related centres at international level and with the UNEP Secretariat. In accordance with its long-term strategic orientations, the Centre may, together with the competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia and other institutions, pay particular attention to the implementation of the provisions of Articles 12, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the Convention, thereby establishing a functioning with the secretariat of the United Nations Environment Programme of UNEP and other related organisations at international level. This would enable the exchange of information on scientific research results and establish active cooperation at a global network organisation dealing with mercury issues – UNEP. The establishment of cooperation with the secretariats of the chemicals and waste conventions may also be welcome. For these activities, additional resources should also be provided in the State budget to enable the implementation of the provisions of the Convention and the preparation of relevant projects. The preparation of such projects would, inter alia, give the Centre the possibility of drawing financial resources from the Global Environment Facility (GEF). However, the content of Article 12 of the Minamat Convention is the one in which the Centre in Idria could, in view of the knowledge and experience that has been maintained, also after the liquidation of the Idrija mine in cooperation with other national institutions, fulfil its mission, prepare strategies to detect and assess areas contaminated with mercury or mercury compounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u224	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 61 votes against and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I'm definitely watching a very interesting event, so I can stop if we don't calm down a little bit. Let's go have a cigarette. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] No, it's not. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 32. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of the Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Protocol on the employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's countries in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law referred to the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a bill on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and Japan on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and tax avoidance with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u225	Dear Members, distinguished President, good evening! Slovenia has been working for a long time to conclude a convention on the elimination of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance of taxes with Japan. The proposal for a law on ratification of this Convention is finally before you. With certainty, cooperation with Japan is promising. Compared only the 2014 trade in goods to 2016, it amounted to €90 million in 2014, already €190 million in 2016. Interestingly, from that deficit in 2014, when we imported more for 30 million than we exported, we now kind of over-exported, saying, 40 million more. This also points somehow to our competitiveness, external competitiveness and how things develop with us. Here are some good stories, such as Yaskav, and also such an agreement helps us to be more interesting for external investors as well as for our investments abroad. The competitive advantage is certainly also the network of international tax treaties we have. These are currently 58. Such agreements remove tax barriers to trade, investment between countries which conclude such an agreement and reduce the possibility of tax evasion. Slovenia's negotiations for the conclusion of such conventions are based on the existing draft Convention, which was prepared under the OECD Model Convention, with the views expressed by the Republic of Slovenia to individual articles of the Model Convention. This was signed on 30 September 2016. The essential elements of this Convention are the scope, definition of terms, taxation of income and property, methods for the elimination of double taxation, exchange of information, assistance in tax collection and also provisions on the entry into and termination of this Convention and the validity of this Convention. The agreement, through various mechanisms, allows for the elimination of double taxation, increases the security of taxpayers, prevents tax evasion and tax discrimination and allows the exchange of information for tax purposes and for the resolution of tax disputes. In view of the above, I propose that you also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u226	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for a law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Agreement for the International Carriage of Goods by Road, the CMR, in connection with the electronic cargo list. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law referred to the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of amendments to the 1996 Protocol amending the Convention on the Limitation of Responsibilities for Maritime Claims, 1976. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly were not possible to be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[Everyone voted for it.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 36. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement on Strategic Partnerships between the European Union and its member states on one side and Canada on the other. The bill was submitted to the assembly by the Government, which unfortunately is not here this time to explain it. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Joint Left Group. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you, President. I'm not going to say hello to the government representative. This agreement is the so-called accompanying document of a more infamous CETE. Although the paper does not read as malicious or harmful, many controversial aspects come to light from below the surface. The first basic line is that this document represents another step in Slovenia's steps towards integration into the so-called Euro-Atlantic links. In addition, it is the basis for some political trade, which I will talk about in a few seconds. We also know what is very important that Canada has opposed, say, the inclusion of an operational article on human rights. Why political trade? For example, in the second paragraph of Article 23, we can read that the Parties have the objective of all their nationals travelling between the Union and Canada without visas. This, of course, is a noble goal, but we must remember what the demands of Romania and Bulgaria to support CETI were. Just to eliminate visas for their citizens. So this mathematics is actually very simple. On the one hand, Canadian multinationals and, of course, Americans, who have about 4 thousand branches in Canada, will benefit from the benefits of the Romanian and Bulgarian development models, i.e. low taxes, low wages and even lower labour rights, while Romania and Bulgaria will be able to export their workforce across the ocean. Furthermore, in Article 10, the Parties undertake to promote free trade and strengthen investment. For the United Left, this in itself sounds problematic, but even more so, if we read it in parallel with the CETA agreement, which will in the future severely jeopardise the standard of labour, social, environmental, consumer standards, as well as democracy as such. Why is the strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Canada problematic from a substantive point of view? Because, on the one hand, it follows a logic that promotes the deterioration of the situation, and on the other hand, it is very hypocritical to compare words with the actual situation. Just two cases to conclude. Much of the agreement is devoted to the fight against terrorism, the fight against weapons of mass destruction and the fight against drugs. There's probably no one on paper who can see anything. But here's the key duality of the West when he talks about these things. The opposition to weapons of mass destruction is commendable, but we must remind ourselves that many European countries, as well as Canada, are important or large producers of such weapons. We can also recall how Western imperialism is actually the main factor in the emergence of terrorism, that is, what we are also committed to fighting against this agreement. Not to mention how the West has destabilized North Africa and the Middle East and so on. Furthermore, Article 11 is devoted to cooperation in the tax field and the prevention of illegal tax practices. Here we have again a purely hypocritical story. Some key Member States of the European Union are tax havens themselves: Luxembourg, Ireland, the Netherlands and so on. So, on the one hand, we have some very noble ideas on paper that are trying to conclude between the European Union and Canada, and on the other hand, we know what the actual situation is and what the real policy is in the background. Because of these things in the United Left, we will not support this ratification.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u228	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 6. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 37. On the basis of a proposal from the United Nations and the Conventions, adopted in the International Atomic Energy Agency, for the amendment and amendment of the act on the notification of the succession to the United Nations Convention. The draft act was tabled by the Government. The draft act was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the act has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 47. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Mandate-Volution Commission, for an introductory explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u229	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant provides in Article 7, paragraph 1, that the Fund shall be managed by an administrative committee which has a chairman and four members, from which the President and two members shall appoint and dispose of the National Assembly, one Government and one local community, in which the Krško Nuclear Power Plant stands. The National Assembly is at its 21st session. 11. 2014 adopted a decision appointing the President and two members of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which, inter alia, appointed Goraz Skubin as chairman of the Fund's Management Board. He was appointed to the National Assembly of 12. 4. 2017 forwarded a statement of resignation from the post of President and was therefore presented by the State Assembly at its meeting of 21. 4. Resolved 2017. On the basis of a decision adopted at the 33rd meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission 19. 4. In view of the discharge of the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, Members were invited to submit proposals for candidates for a new President or President to be appointed for the remainder of the term of office. She received two proposals within the deadline, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and the Modern Centre Party Group. The term-of-law commission shall be held at the 34th session of the 18th session. 5. 2017, of the proposals of the two candidates, one has been designated and included in the text of the draft decision, which was laid down under Articles 36 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant shall be appointed by Bogdan Trop for a period until the end of the term of office of the President appointed by the President and two members of the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive wastes from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u230	We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u231	Good evening! It's really the last point, but it doesn't matter. The government can only operate in a situation of stable, long-term cooperation that is based first on country-based and then on party principles, on values of respect, consensual bridging of mutual differences, respect for institutional and procedural elements of the democratic system, broad integration and responses to the needs and views of both the democratic principles of the acting opposition and all the diverse stakeholders. Dear coalition, this is your record. This is the record of your coalition agreement, this is the commitment you made to the citizens. What's the reality? Let's just look at the operation on the Mandating Commission. You seem to be diametrically opposed not only to this record, but also to yourself. You are acting voluntarily, acting on the system of the voting machine, thereby tapping values that you have promised citizens and citizens with a coalition contract and even before the elections. You fuck with proportionality, which is an important indicator of democratic action and attitude towards the opposition. You're making fun of this moment, too, but with respect, you're making fun of yourself, because you're telling citizens the real picture of yourself. How many of these cases are there? It's huge. But allow me to list only the last: the RTV Programme Council, the Broadcasting Council, membership of the Public Sector Wage System Council, the NEK Disruption Financing Supervisory Board. Well, today we have a new decision on the appointment of the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Here, too, you have shown an incredible interest in proportionality and an incredible interest after the need for cooperation and respect for the opposition, which is true in a democratic society. With a mere argument of power, you voted on your proposal and voted on candidate Bogdan Trop. In doing so, they forgot the expertise and well-founded proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which proposed mag. Bojana Kekca. Therefore, Your Honor, in your ethical and moral manners, I seriously urge you to delete this part of the coalition treaty. In fact, if we took a good look, this coalition contract would remain an empty sheet of paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u232	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members and are moving on to the debate of the Member on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The sad tradition you started at the beginning of your mandate, for the first time you took away your fellow Members' mandates, then you literally pushed those foreign experts from a bad bank out of a bad bank, you put your monopoly completely, you can say, your ideological colleagues. As colleague Anja Bah Žibert has read your coalition contract to you today, there is not a single matter that you might say you have taken into account any opinion of the opposition. When we talked about the bad bank law, about the rehabilitation of banks, as the law was called, when we talked about the Slovenian state holding company, during the summers during the holidays, I think that Comrade Shircelj and colleague Pogačnik led, all the time in the then government there were complete colleagues from the opposition. We have taken most of the proposals into account and given some quota to people who can receive and review all those matters from the opposition. A colleague spoke about a member of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of NEK, which is an important function. Why does it matter? Don't let any hole in here when you're gone. This is where money is collected where the difference between the production price and the sales price is kilowattled by electricity. And this money must be noble and it must be sufficient that when there is a decommissioning in the final phase, when it comes to the costs of nuclear waste storage, it must be enough of this money collected at the time of the active operation of this Krško nuclear power plant. We have proposed by meritocratic principles as always the Master of Electrical Science, a university-graduate energy engineer with long experience for this remainder of the term of office, Mag. Kekca, who is an expert in this field. You clearly rejected him without any discussion. This is just one of the last stages of this coalition and the mode of operation after which you operate. I can only say, I hope people hear, see everything you promised before the election on posters about some new ethical criteria. About the principles of democracy, my colleague Bahova read to you what you have probably written from some debate somewhere in the world, how democracy should work, how some quota of people from the opposition should, for reasons of balancing, for acting, for reasons of balance, as we speak in democracy, work, but you are acting as we said at the beginning. It's the total bureaucratic self-esteem of people who realize that they have a majority right now. And after that, you seem like some bulldozer. As I said at the beginning, we have a dictatorship of bureaucrats, their thinking, their self-sufficiency. This self-sufficiency of Slovenia leads in the most beautiful times to the growth of economies in Europe, to the final loss, to the complete non-competitiveness in several areas, and leads to the collapse of the time when they can make the most competitive advantages. So, dear colleagues, imagine how you vote, imagine that your time is running out, and imagine how you will look when there will be another composition of the National Assembly, another power. I would like you to look at how the forces worked between the opposition and the coalition in the 25-year history of this House, how many coalitions have taken the opposition into account, at least in some truly quality proposals. Dear colleagues, I wish you well, but I hope that people are watching you, watching you, and will prepare themselves for the next elections, and will also clear up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-24-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u234	This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to appoint Mr Bogdan Trop as Chairman of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for the remainder of the term of office. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present and 51 votes against 21. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 30th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume at 9:00 p.m.
