ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Tomaž Gantar, Marinka Levičar, Marija Bačič by 1:00 p.m., Vesna Vervega by 2 p.m., Urška Ban by 1 p.m., Marjana Kotnik Poropat by 3 p.m., Luka Mesec, Dr. Lásló Göncz by 11 p.m., Ivan Škodnik by 12 p.m., Kamal Izidor Shaker, Dr. Dragan Matić by 2 p.m. and Jan Škoberne. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the registration of the state border with the Republic of Croatia by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Dear Members and Members and other Members present! The Law on the Registration of the State Border with the Republic of Croatia provides the legal basis for the implementation of the decision of the arbitral tribunal on the State border with the Republic of Croatia and for the registration of the State border with the Republic of Croatia laid down in the judgment of the arbitral tribunal on 29 June 2017 in the Register of the State Border. In this record, state borders with other neighbouring countries are recorded and the state border with the Republic of Croatia is not yet registered. The law lays down rules for the recording of the national border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal in the register of the State border. This will be done once the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has confirmed the mapping of the state border between the two countries, which is being prepared by a government interdepartmental working group for the preparation of cartographic bases. It lays down rules for the registration of land and buildings which, following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, move to the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia in a cadastral land, to the cadastral buildings and to the register of immovable property. The registration will be carried out when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decides that the state border with the Republic of Croatia is registered in the state border register, and that the registration of the state border in the state border register will start to take legal effect. The entry of all parcels and buildings which, following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, move to the national territory of the Republic of Slovenia and to the cadastral territory, the cadastrall of buildings and the register of immovable property shall be provided on an official basis and may also be made at the request of interested persons of legal interest. These persons themselves do not pay the costs of carrying out geodetic services of administrative fees and administrative costs, but the law provides for the coverage of these costs. The payment of administrative fees is exempt and the costs for the production of the laboratories are covered by the State budget, the rules for the removal of land and buildings which, following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, pass from the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia and from the registers, are laid down by the Land Catastrophe, the Catastrophe of Buildings and the Register of Real Estates. The Regulation provides that the deletion shall be suspended. In order to ensure legal security of property owners in areas that have crossed from the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia, judicial protection of rights, protection of human rights and property, the data on buildings and parcels in the area shall not be deleted until the reconciliation of the property records in the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia is carried out, so that all parcels and buildings are recorded in the records of that State in the area in which they are located following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. After the entry into force of the law, these lands and buildings in the land cadastral, the cadastral buildings and the register of immovable property will only be specifically marked and laid down rules of registration in the case of an agreement to execute the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. If an agreement is reached between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on the enforcement of an arbitral tribunal judgment, the State border between the two countries will not be recorded under this law, but under the provisions of the Property Registration Act governing the recording of the state border under ratified international treaties. This law includes the solutions necessary for the implementation of the judgment of the arbitration agreement, as implementation by the Republic of Croatia is not yet expected in the given situation. Article 7 of the Arbitration Agreement also follows, under which States Parties are required to implement this, including the amendment of domestic legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 69th emergency meeting. 11. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on the recording of the national border with the Republic of Croatia submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly shall be held at its 111th session. 11. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. On behalf of the applicant, Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, explained that the basic objective of the proposed law was to provide a legal basis for recording the state border with the Republic of Croatia in the register of the State border and to harmonise the data of other records maintained by the Geodetic Authority with a national border record registered with the Republic of Croatia. The draft law provides for the entry of all parcels and buildings which, following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, move to the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia, to a cadastral, cadastral buildings or register of immovable property, and for the removal of all land and buildings which, following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, pass from the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia to the State territory of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the concerns raised by certain members of the State Council in the examination of this law in the State Council or on the relevant committee, the Secretary of State explained that this deletion from the records of plots to be deleted should only be effected on the basis of Article 10 of the Law when the State border is also recorded in nature. It is said that when the border is demarcated together and on the basis of an agreement with the Republic of Croatia, it cannot happen that the parcels are automatically deleted and recorded in Croatia at the same time. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that, with regard to their comments made in writing, the clarifications of the Ministry of the Environment and Space were provided and the amendments tabled and adopted by the coalition groups were followed. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development said that the Commission did not support the bill, 6 members voted in favour of the law, 6 against. He raised certain concerns that the judgment of the arbitral tribunal was detrimental to the Republic of Slovenia. There is more on this in the report of the Infrastructure Committee. During the debate of Members, Dr Milan Brglez explained that during the period from the publication of the final judgment of the Court of Arbitration in The Hague in the arbitration between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, he had carried out several consultations with experts in the international legal and constitutional field pending the introduction of the draft law into the legislative procedure. He pointed out that the experts mentioned were quite uniform in their view that the proposal for a law was well thought out and that it included appropriate solutions in the situation where the implementation of the judgment of the arbitral tribunal by the Republic of Croatia was not yet expected. He also pointed out that the proposal for a law follows Article 7 of the Arbitration Agreement, which requires States Parties to implement everything necessary for its implementation within six months, including amending domestic legislation. The adoption of the bill or its proposed solutions is particularly important if the Republic of Slovenia, through the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Arbitration in the field, should, in future, refer to any of the international courts by means of legal means and means for the peaceful resolution of disputes. Mr Krivec explained on behalf of the SDS Member of Parliament that, in their view, the draft law, taking into account the position of the Republic of Croatia on the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, was unnecessary and could be harmful for the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, according to the position of this parliamentary group, it is worse than the existing arrangements with the Republic of Croatia, including the Drnovšek-Račan Agreement, and therefore the Group of Members will not participate in the adoption of the law. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Hello! Regardless of how anyone looks at the arbitral tribunal's decision, the truth is that the verdict was well-confirmed by the border already established by Slovenia and Croatia in 2002 by the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. Despite the transfer of some, arbitration has also guaranteed unhindered navigation to the port of Cyprus; the so-called contact area is a unique and resourceful solution, but it has no practical but, above all, negative consequences. The waterways are already taking place in Croatian waters, and Croatia does not interfere with these voyages. We must therefore reject the attempts of the right hand, which by problematicly trying to use the space to gain political points. All of this makes the border issue more formal, and what is really important is the actual border regime. If the Government wants to help citizens who remain in Croatian territory, it must ensure that the border is free. It must strive for Croatia's admission to the Schengen system and, above all, remove the barbed wire. If the Government wants to integrate hamlets belonging to Slovenia, it must enable the development of all social and demographically endangered areas along the border. Citizens, including those who are not directly affected by the arbitration decision, must be aware that our prosperity depends not on the course of the border, but on social and development policy. There is also a need to understand the broader foreign policy relationship between forces. Whether you want to admit it or not, Slovenia and Croatia are in a very similar situation within the European Union. They have more mutual interests between themselves and the other members of the European peripheral than with the leading European members. Our foreign policy should therefore not be reduced to lobbying to support foreign power centres to enforce arbitration. We should strive for cooperation with Croatia, which will contribute to the well-being of both countries. As has already been said, we do not object to the gradual introduction of new borders into legislation and also into municipal acts. However, there is no need to devote more effort than it deserves. Efforts, once again, to build general prosperity and development, on the one hand, and on the other hand to build or improve mutual relations. Therefore, at this point in time, in addition to catching the 6-month deadline for implementation, it would be more prudent for the President of the Government to make only a little more effective efforts to actually start talking to his Croatian counterpart and thus to fulfil his efforts for dialogue. We know you won't be successful after a few talks, but if you don't have a principle, you won't be successful at all. We will not oppose the proposals of the so-called arbitration package in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a package of laws relating to the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. Of course, it's about technology, and everything else is a matter of agreements with the neighbouring country. It would have been an effect if we'd taken it months ago when it was the tourist season. The effect on the institutions of Europe, which, as the talks show, support us, but we do not really know what it is. The government is acting reactively, and I will not go down here into what the verdict is, what is with Slovenia's territorial contact with the open sea, what is with the Slovenians, who are left behind and from the land that is left on the other side of the border. Of course that main flaw that the arbitral tribunal is agreed upon. And if someone does not respect the agreement – how will we implement it? The effect of such a package of legislation if unilaterally adopted – what will it be like? On the other hand, there is no consent of another State and if there is no treaty to respect all of this. I've got the whole package in mind. These are mainly the first three laws: the State Border Recording Act, the Land Book Act and the Fisheries Act. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we do not oppose the adoption of such legislation. However, we would like to take into account some of the comments expressed by the amendments, some of the comments made by the Council of State and also by the Legal and Legislative Service. All of this needs to be taken into account, for the final solution depends on further discussions and activities are needed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez presented the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on the Registration of the State Border with the Republic of Croatia provides a fundamental legal basis for the implementation of the arbitration ruling and any related measures. The law is necessary so that we can continue the process of implementation into judgments. In the introduction, let me explain that these are measures that the Republic of Slovenia can take on its own, even without the participation of the Republic of Croatia, and must also, if we are to specify these borders on the ground and regulate the rights of people living in the border area. It was my duty to consult both representatives of the international legal profession and representatives of constitutional law, and both of them have decided that this is a well-thought-out and final proposal of the law. The proposed law as lex specialis departs from Article 104 of the ZEN so that we can do everything on our side that we can unilaterally do to implement the arbitration ruling. While international law provides for a three-phase border-setting procedure. The border line is usually set bilaterally on the basis of an agreement between the countries and we all want to end up in line with the verdict, even in the case of the Slovenian-Croatian border. This law regulates the situation during this temporary period, which we do not know how long it will take. However, the border may also be established on the basis of the use of means for the peaceful resolution of disputes, arbitration and courts if the States themselves cannot agree on the border. In view of the issues related to the implementation of the judgment, it is particularly important that the opinion of the Constitutional Court of 18 is adopted. 3. 2010 which has assessed the compatibility of the arbitration agreement with our Constitution. Three highlights are crucial. The Constitutional Court finds that the judgment of the arbitral tribunal will constitute an international legal specification of the border. The Constitutional Court emphasises that international borders are normally established by international agreements and therefore the Arbitration Agreement is mainly understood as a peaceful settlement agreement. The Constitutional Court notes that the arbitral ruling will be definitively binding on our legal order and will have direct legal effects. Therefore, no additional ratification in the National Assembly is necessary for its validity and enforcement either through material acts or through the adoption of regulations. Today, five months after the arbitration ruling, it is not time to evaluate the actions and decisions that have been taken in the past, but it is essential, above all, that we ensure that this verdict, which is the most recognised by Slovenia at any time in international relations and law, is applied responsibly. The key technical solutions in the draft law relate to the establishment of a legal basis for recording the state border on the state border register and the harmonisation of data on other land and real estate records. Here we distinguish between three different situations. Where a parcel or building becomes part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a judgment, entry into the register shall take place on the basis of an official duty. Where a parcel or building remains part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it shall be deleted from the register, but the act shall be deferred until agreement with the Republic of Croatia is reached. This prevents new deleted ones. Where part of the plot remains in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and part of the plot belongs to the Republic of Croatia after a verdict, it is up to the owner of the plot or building to decide whether or not to register. This is the only reasonable solution, since, even in these cases, if they were to enter into a record under an official obligation, they would be justified in risking legal disputes over the border in our legal order. The law provides for different situations in practice and offers such solutions, both in fact and formally, already in the process of defining the border referred to by the Constitutional Court and in part in the process of demarcating the border as laid down in international law. This procedure of demarcation of the border line is partly because it is unilateral. However, it is understood to be the beginning of the demarcation process, because parcels are actually registered in official records and in certain cases, the owners' proposal also leads to de-parcelisation, i.e. the real acts of demarcation on the ground itself. Most importantly, all proposed solutions are in accordance with Article 7 of the Arbitration Agreement, which requires States Parties to do whatever is necessary within six months to implement the judgment, including amending domestic legislation. And that's what Slovenia is doing today. The implementation of a national legal order ruling is a prerequisite for the achievement, by diplomatic and peaceful means of resolving disputes, of a final demarcation in the field once. Therefore, in the case of the setting of the Slovenian-Croatian border today, when the border is known, any deviation from the arbitral tribunal's ruling would be the worst of possible strategies, which can be imagined diplomatically and internationally, and also in the light of the entire process of negotiations with Croatia. We will therefore support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice welcome to the government representatives. Nice greeting also to all those who accompany the meeting. We have before us the first draft of the law of the so-called Thursday, which, as a basis for the adoption of these laws, lists the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. The proposal for a law on the registration of the State border with the Republic of Croatia and the other three laws are put into action by means of an urgent procedure. On the ground, the applicant speaks of the finality of the arbitral ruling and that it has determined how the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia is taking place. We are considering this law first because it is also a basis for the other three laws, which are already in the procedure. The fact we cannot deny is that Croatia does not recognise this arbitral ruling. Also in the Committee's debate, there was a lot of talk about a lot of consulting with different lawyers, who in some way were on our way to adopting these specific laws. So it's like we've got some lex specialis back in front of us, trying to solve something. If we look at how the whole arbitration thing has been going on, we can see that there has been a lot of such legal opinions in the past, most of which we believed, and finally we have a judgment that is not in our favor. Our opinion is that the judgment of the arbitral tribunal is at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia and also contrary to all the agreements concluded with the Republic of Croatia so far. Above all, the adoption of this law is irrelevant, as the neighbouring Croatia does not recognise the arbitral tribunal's decision. As long as the Croatian party rejects the arbitral tribunal’s decision or does not show a willingness to respect the arbitral tribunal’s decision and initiates the implementation of Article 7(3) of the arbitration agreement, any action by our State regarding the implementation of the arbitral tribunal’s judgment is unnecessary and possibly even harmful for Slovenia. The law even provides for the removal of parcels and buildings that will pass from the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that we are already giving up a certain part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The current position of the Republic of Croatia clearly shows that it will not give up the territory which, following an arbitral tribunal's ruling, is to enter the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the border is in some ways completely regulated only when the borders agree on the border flow, so it is very questionable to unilaterally regulate the border in practice. Prejudication takes place on the border or the pre-registration of Slovenian territory to the benefit of the neighbouring country is to the detriment of our country, which will probably not be remediable. Then there are many other questions. For example, the exercise of the right to subsidise those owners of agricultural land who will be transferred to the national territory of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. The fact is that the Chairman of the Committee also stated that the Commission of the Council of State does not support the adoption of this law. The fact is, in our Group of Members, we have already opposed this settlement by an arbitration agreement in the past. The fact is that the solution to the arbitration agreement is worse than predicted and expected by those zealous supporters of the arbitration agreement. The solution that we have before us in the arbitration agreement is far worse than the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. The fact is that it is once again a matter of taking unilateral steps that the Government is referring to legal expertise and analysis to confirm, but once again there is no guarantee that this will benefit us. Moreover, we are again taking unilateral steps that may harm us further. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we will not participate in the examination, nor will we participate in the adoption of this law. At the same time, I predict that we will not participate in the consideration and adoption of the other three laws in this package by emergency procedure: the proposal for a law amending the Law on Land Book, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries, the proposal for a law on the regulation of certain issues for the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal under an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, for all four laws tabled under the urgent procedure, I declare that we will not cooperate in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and we will announce obstruction in these laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to point out at the outset of the presentation of the position that Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of the State Border with the Republic of Croatia. This is a key law that will be the basis for all other so-called implementing laws. This is a relatively short and particularly technical law, which, as I have already said, is extremely important. As we have already heard today, the law lays down rules for the recording of the state border with Croatia following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal in the records of the state border and the rules for the recording of land and buildings in the land cadastral, the cadastral of buildings and the register of properties. It is the land and buildings which, as a result of the arbitral tribunal's ruling, move to the state territory of Slovenia or move from the state territory of Slovenia. An important factor in the implementation of this law is that the property to be agreed on the Croatian side will only be deleted from the records when the boundary is also recorded in nature, i.e. when the demarcation takes place. This is a safeguard measure, so that the property would not have been deleted from us by accident and Croatia would not have entered it in its records. At the request of the owners of the parcels to be distributed by the border, the geodetic administration will also carry out a plot and the costs of this procedure will be borne by Slovenia. Demarcation in the field is usually carried out by a mixed commission of both countries, which can also perform minor repairs on the ground, followed by markings with border stones. While there were some concerns about the meaning of this law at the time when the law on the labour force was being considered, there were some concerns about the meaning of this law, as Croatia does not recognise the arbitral ruling so far, but in the Desus Group we believe that the adoption of the so-called implementing laws is necessary if Slovenia accidentally wishes to refer to an arbitration case before an international court. If our country does not implement everything necessary to implement the verdict, then this right could come to us. Finally, let me reiterate that Members and Members of the Desus Group will be united in their support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Dear Vice-President, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the proposal for a law on the recording of the state border with Croatia, which is part of the package of legislation for the implementation of the arbitration ruling on the border with Croatia. This is a key law, as it will be the basis for all the remaining laws in the so-called implementation package. The basic objective of the proposed law is to provide a legal basis for the registration of the national border with the Republic of Croatia in the national border register and the harmonisation of the data of other records maintained by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law allows the registration of the state border with Croatia following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal in the register of the State border. The law lays down the rules on the registration of buildings and land into the cadastral of buildings, the land cadastral or the register of immovable property which, as a result of the arbitral tribunal's judgment, are to be transferred to the State territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The law also provides for the removal of these lands and buildings that move from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In the New Slovenia Group, we stress that the judgment of the arbitral tribunal is equally binding on Slovenia and Croatia. In implementing the judgment, we must advocate consistent respect for international law and the law of the European Union, but we cannot agree with the Croatian rejection of the arbitral tribunal's ruling. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the adoption of this proposal is irrelevant because the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the decision of the arbitral tribunal. Until Croatia rejects the arbitral tribunal's decision and refuses to respect the arbitral tribunal's decision or starts with the implementation of Article 7(3) of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, any action by Slovenia regarding the implementation of the arbitral tribunal's judgment is unnecessary and is detrimental to Slovenia. Since the Croatian side rejects the implementation of the arbitration ruling, in the New Slovenia Group we believe that the adoption of the law in such a form is irrelevant, so we cannot support the law, nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. It is clear to colleagues and colleagues only in explanation of the obstruction of the parliamentary group – of course the Member is no longer in there – that Article 65, paragraph two, is very clear: “The leadership of the parliamentary group may indicate the absence of all members.” So much for information. They're not in there, but of course it can't be a formal obstruction. [[advertising in the hall]] Good. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 21st item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Land Book Act by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dear Members and Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Although the bill is included in the package of laws necessary for the implementation of the arbitration ruling, it also has broader important consequences and represents an important step forward towards harmonising the land book and the cadastra. The case law found that there were problems in regulating the land book, since the addition of the land book had so far been linked only to the proposal of the person expressing legal interest, so the proposal for a law proposed a solution whereby this primary procedure would be under official duty. In practice, it was found that the initiation of the procedure for supplementing the land book was solely linked to the proposal of the person expressing legal interest and that the submission of such a proposal was also linked to costs, and some individuals did not decide to initiate such a procedure. An additional problem is in areas where owners are not even known, have already died or have not yet been reopened or completed. The absence of the possibility of initiating a procedure to supplement the Land Book by official duty in such cases results in an uncoordinated situation between the Land Catastrophe and the Land Book, which is not in the public interest and reduces the legal protection and transparency of the records in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to contributing to the legal basis for the implementation of the arbitration decision, the proposed amendments also aim to ensure that the land book is fully and fully based on the real legal relationship and is fully consistent with the land disaster. The completeness and consistency of the Land Book and the Land Cadastre are not only private but also in the public interest, and therefore it is not possible to make the decision to initiate the Land Book Supplement procedure conditional on the submission of a proposal by a person claiming to be the owner of an unwritten property. For these reasons, I propose to this esteemed National Assembly that the draft law be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the member of the Committee, Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to the representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 34th emergency session. 11. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Land Book Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, which was 20. Ten. 2017 also published on the websites of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 111th session. 11. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Tina Brecelj, provided an additional explanation to the article of the proposed law, explaining that the main solution to the bill is that the procedure for supplementing the land register is not exclusively a proposed procedure, but is a primary procedure initiated by the court after the official duty. The Land Court shall initiate the procedure on an official basis as soon as it receives a notice from the Geodetic Authority that the land parcel is not included in the Land Book and their confirmation that the registration of the land parcel cannot be carried out in accordance with the general rules of the Land Book Procedure. At the same time, the possibility remains that the process of supplementing the land book should also be initiated on a proposal from an individual. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the service had no comments on the bill. State Councillor Rajko Fajt presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation. He explained that this Commission supports and agrees with the proposed amendments, which will ensure better coordination and completeness of both real estate records, the Land Book and the Earth Cadastre. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the articles of the bill. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Irena Kotnik will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Amendments to the Land Book Act is prepared as part of a package of laws relating to the preparation for the implementation of the arbitration ruling. For this reason, it was also proposed that the proposed amendments to the law should be dealt with in accordance with an urgent legislative procedure. The fundamental objective of the prepared novel is in particular to ensure that the land book is fully and fully demonstrating real relations and thus fully aligned with the Earth's disaster. The current regime allows for the initiation of a procedure to supplement the land book only on the proposal of a person who is likely to demonstrate that he has a real right to an unregistered property. However, such arrangements have not proved entirely appropriate in practice, since individuals often have no interest in initiating the land book completion process. As a result, however, the lack of consistency and imperfection of both real estate records, the land book, and the cadastral have unfortunately occurred. The decision brought by the novel amends the basic rule and will therefore, in accordance with the amendment, initiate the procedure under official duty as soon as it receives a notice from the Geodetic Authority that the plot of land is not included in the Land Book and confirms that the entry of this plot cannot be carried out in accordance with the general rules of the Land Book Procedure. However, the novel does not leave the possibility that the completion process of the land book should also be initiated on the proposal of the person who submits a copy of the unwritten plot of land from the cadastral and the certificate of the competent authority that the plot of land has been entered into the cadastral, but cannot be ascertained from the data of the cadastral by dividing or merging the previous plot of land. With the solution proposed, the completion procedure of the Land Book will no longer be a purely proposed procedure, but rather a primary procedure initiated by the Court on the basis of an official duty. It should be borne in mind that this is both in the interest of protection and smooth legal traffic in real estate and also in the public interest, as, after all, quality real estate records are essential for the performance of public real estate tasks. We agree with such a proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre and Members, so we will support the Law on Amendments to the Land Book Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Grimes is gone. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The bill we are considering today proposes amendments to ensure greater coherence and completeness of both real estate records, i.e. the land cadastra and the land book. For the land book is a public book containing records or data on real property rights, a public record that is very important for the real estate market, since it must contain every property, any change in ownership, real rights, certain bond rights and, finally, legal facts. Above all, the land-book principle of trust, in other words, is important, and we can count on all the data in the land book. In order for that principle to apply, however, the interest of the real estate owners after the entry of the property into the land book is necessary. In practice, however, it has been shown that some owners, mainly in border areas due to low property values, have no interest in entering property in the land book. In order to avoid the uncoordinatedness of the land book and the cadastral cadastral Members and Members, we take the decision that the procedure for supplementing the land book is no longer solely a proposed procedure, but rather a primary procedure initiated by the court on an official basis. Thus, according to a warning from the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, the court will initiate the registration procedure as soon as it receives notification from the Geodetic Authority that the plot is not registered in the Land Book. It should be pointed out here that the proposal preserves the possibility for procedures to be initiated by an individual. Only in cases where it is found that the registration of a particular plot of land cannot be carried out in accordance with the general rules of the Land Book Procedure shall the court initiate the proceedings on an official basis. We will support the proposal, in accordance with what is stated in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Land Book is a public charter governed by the Court and should reflect the actual situation with regard to property or other real rights. “A quality, up-to-date and transparent land book is a fundamental condition for the safe and smooth operation of legal traffic in real estate.” These are the words of the Minister of Justice when he answered the New Slovenia question two years ago. We asked him how the courts would in practice correct the many errors that occurred in 2011 in the transition from a manual led land book to an electronic land book. Even today there are land plots that are not included in the land book and the law instructs owners to begin the process of supplementing the land book themselves. In doing so, they must first probably demonstrate that they have a real right to an immovable property. It took the government six years to figure out for itself what we have repeatedly pointed out that we must not leave to individuals, as some do not care if the situation in the Earth disaster is the same as that of the land book. Others do not, however, initiate these procedures because they are linked to costs. So today we have many cases of uncoordinated both real estate records: the land book and the earth cadastre. Such a way would never reach a quality and up-to-date land book. The Government has now finally moved forward, but it has only moved forward due to the urgent process of adopting so-called package laws related to the preparation for the implementation of the arbitration ruling. Why is it essential at one time that the land book must manifest full and complete real relations and must be in full harmony with the earth’s disaster? In New Slovenia, we are confident that if there is no need to rush into an arbitral ruling, we would not be discussing such a proposal today. There will now be no problem for the Land Courts to be able to complete the Land Book on their own, on their own official duty, as soon as they receive a notice from the Geodetics Administration that the land plot is not included in the Land Book and cannot be entered under the general rules of the Land Book Procedure. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the Government should have proposed such a change of law years ago when it found that there were problems in practice and the gap between the situation in the Land Book and the situation in the Land Catastrophe has increased. In view of the proposed amendments to the Land Book Act, we will not object.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the preliminary and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the 22nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 23. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on sea fishing by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Simon Zajc for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	Your Honor! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries, submitted to the Assembly by the Government, as the working body of the Government at its meeting 8. 11. 2017. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was forwarded to the Committee, which made a concrete comment on Article 3 of the proposal. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The Director of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia took part in the meeting, which supports the proposal of the law and has no comments to it. There was no debate on the proposed provisions of the bill. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 3 of the bill summarizing the specific comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Simon Zajc will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	Your Honor! The draft law shall be adopted on the basis of the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal in arbitration concerning the establishment of a border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. The Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Article 7, paragraph 3, provides: “The Contracting Parties shall, within six months of the adoption of the judgment, take all necessary steps to implement it, including amending national legislation, if necessary.” With regard to the judgment, the Government immediately adopted a decision which constitutes an undertaking to give particular attention to the enforcement of the judgment, and in particular to the people at the border and to entities such as fishermen directly concerned by the judgment. It also stressed the Committee of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy. Most of Slovenia's arbitration ruling can be implemented on its own. Although Slovenia wants Croatia to participate, its cooperation will be necessary as soon as possible in particular in those parts of the judgment where the arbitral tribunal is on its way to joint solutions. This amendment belongs to the first category of solutions, i.e. those for which cooperation with Croatia, which is not avoided, is not necessary. These laws must be adopted by Slovenia by 29 December when the said half-year period for the preparation of everything necessary for the enforcement of the arbitration ruling expires. The law will apply once the state border between Slovenia and Croatia is recorded in the State border register on the basis of the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal. The new law allows the procedure for issuing special authorisations for economic fisheries, namely for Croatian fishermen, to be fully implemented in our legal order by the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy Regulation with regard to the bilateral access of fishermen to neighbouring countries' marine waters. In addition, the law will allow inspections or infringement procedures to be carried out if Croatian fishermen fish in Slovenian territorial waters without permission and with networks which our legislation does not allow unlike Croatia. However, the Regulation on the designation of the fishing zone of the Republic of Slovenia and the Maritime Fisheries Ordinance shall also apply as it is established by a decision of the border at sea. In addition, fishing zones are no longer relevant for the purpose of fishing. On the other hand, it is the realization of historical rights that Slovenian fishermen had before the verdict. Slovenia has protected the historical rights of Slovenian fishermen as part of the European primary and secondary legal order in the negotiation process of Croatia's accession to the European Union. Although Slovenia has the right to fish on the west coast of Istria to Vrsar, it has obtained a bilateral agreement on border traffic and cooperation, called SOPS, which has not come to life in practice. During the negotiations on fisheries, the Union has taken note of SOPS as the basis for mutual access between Slovenia and Croatia to coastal waters. These rules, however, will enter into force upon full application of the arbitration ruling in accordance with the agreement signed by the State. This fishing portion of SOPS will therefore begin to be implemented once, on the basis of an arbitral ruling, the sea boundary has been recorded. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support the draft law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	Nice greeting, Mr Vice President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Novel of the Law on Maritime Fisheries is part of a package of laws to implement the arbitration judgment on the border. Once the arbitration agreement enters into force, the implementation of bilateral access by fishermen to the sea will be possible under this Act. On the basis of this novelty, it will be possible to issue specific marketing authorisations for the implementation of the European Common Fisheries Policy Regulation. This means, in particular, that Slovenian fishermen will be able to fish in Croatian territorial waters to the mouth of the Lim Canal in accordance with the provisions of the Croatian Accession Treaty, while Croatian fishermen will be able to fish in Croatian territorial waters to the mouth of the Lima Canal and in the entire Slovenian territorial sea. Of course, this will only happen, as has already been said, when the arbitration agreement enters into force. So when the neighbouring country also starts to respect the arbitration verdict. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the ministries, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments to the Maritime Fisheries Act will lay the basis for the implementation of the procedure for the granting of special fishing authorisations in the field of maritime fishing, which shall apply when the national border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia is recorded in the national border register on the basis of the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal. Economic fishing at sea may only be carried out in accordance with legislation on the basis of a prior authorisation for commercial fishing at sea. The law is amended in order to implement Regulation 1380/2013, which governs the basic area of the Common Fisheries Policy of the European Union, namely the conservation of marine biological resources and the management of fisheries, including, inter alia, the basic rules of the Member States for access to water and the control of activities, in particular fishing activities, transhipment, landing, import, transport of fishery products and aquaculture products, which are carried out by any natural or legal person already authorised under their sovereignty or jurisdiction on the basis of a common fisheries policy on their territory or waters. The 10th point of Annex 1 to that Regulation provides that in the coastal waters of Slovenia, namely, the geographical area or territorial sea, that is to say, about 12 miles, which is confined to the maritime area under the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and which lies north of the parallel of 45 degrees and 10 minutes of northern latitude along the western coast of Istria, from the outer edge of the territorial sea of Croatia, where this parallel touches the land west coast of Istria, the Grgatov Cape Funtana, vessels flying the flag of the Republic of Croatia are caught annually up to 100 tonnes of bottom or pelagic species of fish. This applies to a maximum of 25 fishing vessels, including 5 fishing vessels equipped with trawls. The country should also adequately protect Slovenian fishermen, as they feel very threatened by many past bad experiences. Let the state stand by them to protect their property. Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda. This concludes the 23rd item of the agenda. We're moving on to 24. On the basis of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Lilliani Kozlović, Secretary General of the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members! As soon as the arbitration ruling was announced, the Government proceeded to prepare everything necessary for the implementation of the arbitration ruling. Including the decision of the Government and the statement of the PSC itself, special attention was paid to residents living along the national border. With our visits to the field, we have determined what the actual situation is and in the draft law has regulated those rights and duties that are necessary to facilitate the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the state border, and in particular the consequences arising from the establishment of the border. In fact, only one of the three elements was known in this area prior to the decision of the arbitral ruling or arbitral tribunal. They're residents. While the other two elements were disputed over the disputed territory. Today, there is no longer any doubt about the other two elements of statehood. The arbitral tribunal ruled by a definitively enforceable ruling, and the legitimacy of the decision was also given by the people of the Republic of Slovenia to the referendum, not because they were misled, but because they may be more aware of what the irreconcilability of the state border means for people living right next to it. During the drafting of the law, we were also informed that the inhabitants of the disputed areas were opportunists, that they were exploiting what was more favourable to them. On the National Assembly's home committee, however, we have heard that the law before us is only a pierre of the government of Dr. Mir Cerar. But let's look at the facts. By submitting an application to the arbitral tribunal for these territories, the inhabitants were given the hope that the territory in which they reside would belong to the Republic of Slovenia. This was done despite the fact that the application of the rules of international law and the principle of uti posidetis was laid down in the arbitration agreement on the land border. Uti Possidetis is an international legal principle that the territory and other property shall remain with its holder at the end of the conflict unless otherwise specified by the contract. So, the rule of oozing possidetis means that you can continue to possess what you've owned so far. For all the territories that belonged to the Republic of Croatia by judgment, the Slovenian State had already waived its power and real estate prior to its judgment. The argument that the Government is ahead of schedule to wait until agreement is reached with the Republic of Croatia, as well as the statement that aid to the inhabitants of the Piar Movement, suggests a lack of experience in life as to what it means to stay at the disputed state border of the two countries. Failure to take decisions by the Government means for the population to continue the unclear legal situation, who is responsible for them and who is responsible. However, the assistance provided by the proposed law can only deal with certain situations, and in no way can it completely change the fact that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia become foreigners in another country without their own will. It is for the latter's sake that we help the people in the way that the Government proposes in marriage. The decision of the government of Dr. Mir Cerar on the proposal of the law is an artificial decision which places the population first of the three elements of statehood. I propose to the National Assembly that a third hearing be held at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, President. Dear representatives of the executive branch, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 59th emergency meeting, on 10 June. 11. 2017 as a working body, the proposal for a law on the regulation of certain matters for the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal was addressed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the State Assembly for its consideration. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The amendments were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD groups on 6, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 24, 25 and the new 27a and the New Slovenia Group on 7th. The State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government gave an additional explanation to the article of the bill. He said that the content of the proposal reflected the need for persons directly addressed by the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. Since the needs of people are diverse, virtually all ministries participated in the drafting of the bill. The Secretary-General of the Government explained the bill's proposal and said that it was formed in full interaction with the inhabitants in the area under arbitration. It's about 98 people. The aim is to preserve as many rights as possible because, for all the rights they have so far, they are no longer able to preserve and exercise or acquire certain new rights. In all the procedures to be followed by a bill, residents will be exempt from payment of the costs of the procedure in the Republic of Slovenia and will also be reimbursed any costs they may have due to the status arrangements in Croatia. It further presented a set of rights governed by the proposal for a law, as a proposal for a law regulates different rights in one place. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission supports the proposal of the law for state regulation, as the members of the Commission consider it important that the State provides support to the people most directly affected and affected by the ruling of the Court of Arbitration. In a presentation of a written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that their service had made only one constitutional comment in the opinion, namely Article 17, which regulates the right to financial assistance relating to residence. The municipality of Anton Škof of the area directly concerned by the proposal of the law highlighted the issue of the arrangements for the hereditary lease and commented on Article 18 on the alleged construction and utility permit and on the time limit for the relocation of the farm. In the debate, Mr Levice said that they would not object to the proposal but would not support it. Members of the opposition also drew attention to the attitude of the Republic of Croatia towards the judgment of the arbitral tribunal and expressed concern about the deadlines for the exercise of rights set out in the draft law. Members of the coalition expressed their support for this kind of bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all proposals for legislation. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended proposal is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amendments adopted are also included. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Your Honor! We have before us a bill that we will unanimously support in the Desus Group. As we know, on 29 June, the Court of Arbitration in The Hague declared, in accordance with the rules and principles of international law, a final judgment in the arbitration between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia concerning the establishment of a border on land and sea between countries. The purpose of the bill is to facilitate life along the borders of the living people who have been affected by the judgment so that they no longer have the rights they have enjoyed before. It shall be provided with adequate compensation for damage, free legal advice in the protection of property rights and legal protection. It follows the principle of equal treatment of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia whose rights and obligations have been affected by a judgment by retaining, as much as possible, the same rights as they have enjoyed to declare a verdict. However, for those rights for which they are deprived, it introduces an appropriate compensation. In the Desus Group, it is particularly important for us to allow them to continue to exercise and preserve the rights of social security and social security. We are talking about pension and disability insurance rights, unemployment insurance and parental protection insurance, disability protection, social security and healthcare and health insurance. Those who, on 28 June 2017, were owners, co-owners and joint owners of property in a territory that is no longer part of our territory on the basis of a judgment and have had or have actually resided on the title of this property will be entitled to financial assistance for the purchase of real estate in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law also provides State aid in the event that material damage occurs on the tools and vessels used by fishermen for their activities and may result in a loss of income. Fisheries shall also be provided with adequate legal protection if they are brought before foreign law enforcement authorities. A number of measures will be taken in the agricultural field. Those who have leased land from the Fund and are recipients of certain funds will be able to receive compensation on a comparable scale as it has been received so far. It will also be possible to conclude long-term contracts instead of short-term contracts with the Fund. It is also envisaged that compensation is due to exceptional circumstances, but it is a matter of payment of subsidies which will no longer be paid after the state border has been put in place. Therefore, the individuals referred to in this Title will receive an adequate compensation for a period of five years. However, in this interim period, replacement land will be acquired so that their situation will not deteriorate in the long run. As a result of everything listed in the Desus Group, we believe that this is an important law that expresses the concern of the state towards the citizens who have been in their rights and obligations to be judged in any way affected, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of the Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The Social Democrats will try to regulate and preserve certain rights for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in areas which, following the ruling of the Court of Arbitration, could be deprived of certain rights or have been affected by that judgment in any other way. This is a wide range of rights that are regulated in one place, from social security and social security rights to wide-ranging agricultural affairs. These include rights relating to agricultural land and forests, planning for the relocation of the farm and other measures in the field of agriculture. In the fisheries sector, refunds are also provided for the reduction of the fishing zone and, for example, for material damage to fishing gear or vessel. Financial assistance is also provided for the purchase of real estate in the Republic of Slovenia, but there are also a number of issues related to property that remain outside the borders. We are aware that it will certainly be harder to save people living in houses, as it were, on the borderline itself. Of course, all these aids and compensations must also reflect on what this means for individuals in the assessment of taxes and other rights they have enjoyed so far. This is a complex legal matter involving the entire government. As we have been assured by the Government, the content of the law reflects the needs of people. Of course, the fact that this issue related to the ruling of the arbitration agreement is also not to be ignored is, however, more difficult to resolve. The resolution of this fact is strongly linked to cooperation or non-cooperation with government representatives of the Republic of Croatia. Social Democrats want the situation with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia to be settled as soon as possible, and especially because of the people affected by this verdict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! If we leave aside today the fact that Slovenia received less arbitration than it did on 25 June 1991 and that it did not have direct contact with the open sea, we can find out the following. The judgment shall be binding on the Republic of Slovenia in the same way as on the Republic of Croatia. Its comprehensive implementation can only be achieved within six months by the cooperation of both countries, as it is unilaterally impossible to do so. The Republic of Croatia remains firmly committed to the position that this judgment is not subject to respect and is not applicable to it. So at this point, what can Slovenia do, which is firmly convinced that the arbitral tribunal's decision is final and must be respected? It can wait for Croatia to change its mind, but we can prepare whatever it takes to implement the verdict. Thus, we can say that we have done everything we were obliged to do in accordance with the verdict, everything the international community expects of us. In Novi Slovenije we regret that the Court of Arbitration has established the border on land without taking into account the specific situation on the ground and that in most cases it has only taken account of the cadastral border. That is why people living in these areas face many questions and fear what will happen if there is no bilateral implementation of the verdict. Today's bill is just a framework for how those who remain in territory that is no longer Slovenian will retain all rights if they want to, so that the consequences of arbitration in everyday life will be felt as little as possible. In Novi Slovenije we have already pointed out the question of the succession of leases for land which are no longer part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia but are owned by it. It is unclear what will happen to those lands for which the current leases will be extended until the end of 2047, but the current tenants will die in the meantime. At the principle level, however, the law lays down sufficient frameworks, but we point out that the Government will have to resolve individual issues directly on the ground. Before that, it will have to do more to conclude an interstate agreement with the Republic of Croatia, because without this we will not be able to proceed unilaterally with the procedures for the execution of the arbitration ruling. At the meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, the Secretary-General of the Government argued that a quiet diplomacy was also taking place between countries in order for Croatia to fulfil its obligations as soon as possible. But she's probably so quiet, she can't feel it in the field. We will therefore not support this law in New Slovenia, nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! In Levi, we have repeatedly presented our views on the arbitral ruling, so I would not repeat it here. However, I would like to re-emphasize one part, particularly those relating to those who live in these border areas and, on the other hand, to the duties they are owed to them by the Government and the State as such. In order to settle the border issue, it is more important than the formal application of the arbitration regime itself at the border. If the Government is to help citizens who remain in Croatian territory, it must also ensure that the border is free. It must reach Croatia's admission into the Schengen system and remove the barbed wire immediately. If the Government wants to integrate hamlets belonging to Slovenia, it must also allow for the development of whole social and demographicly threatened areas along the border. Our prosperity does not depend on the course of the border, it depends solely and exclusively on development policy. The measures necessary for the formal enforcement of the arbitral ruling should therefore not or should not interfere with the other tasks of the State and the municipalities. The fact is that Slovenia and Croatia are in a similar or very similar situation within the European Union, whether we want to or not. They share more common interests with other peripheral countries than with the EU's leading members. Our foreign policy should therefore not be reduced to lobbying to support foreign power centres to enforce arbitration. What we should be doing is working for cooperation with Croatia, which will ultimately contribute to the well-being of both countries. In Levica, we therefore agree that people whose situation has changed by way of an arbitral ruling should be helped. Some of the government's proposals do not seem most appropriate to us, but in practice they might have a negative rather than positive impact. We have already raised some specific concerns on the parental committee. The first involved financial assistance to those who wanted to move to Slovenia. We have pointed out that there is an unjustified distinction between owners and tenants of apartments and properties. We are convinced that it is necessary to help everyone under the same conditions and that the original proposal did not provide this. He placed real estate owners in a privileged position, whereas he completely excluded the tenants. On the one hand, the owners would receive less modestly, we must admit this, a financial incentive to purchase new real estate and also to retain their old property and the tenants would not have any rights under that scenario. So we are pleased that, at least here, the coalition has listened to the arguments that we have put forward and is now proposing an amendment that guarantees these rights to tenants as well. Another problem that is not addressed or addressed by the amendments relates to compensation for damage caused by a foreign vessel on Slovenian vessels. Here we must stress that it is a timeless and very loosely defined compensation which could in practice and even in far-reaching circumstances encourage incidents in the Gulf of Piran. It is not to be forgotten that we already have experience in political bargaining on incidents. We all probably remember Janša-Sanader's affair and the pre-election time we've already entered is more than appropriate for something similar. However, the unlimited recovery of the damage caused could even encourage such practices. The same negative consequences could have a provision on the legalisation of all buildings, including black buildings. The problem is that it's a provision that doesn't actually have an overview of what kind of objects it is. So here, too, it seems to us that it is a bit too much of a vacation. As it is said, in Levi, we believe that those affected by the arbitral ruling should certainly be helped, but we want the Government to help all citizens and citizens in the same way or with the same zeal, so that financial resources can be found, as quickly as the arbitration can be effected, to raise the minimum wage and social benefits, let alone to resolve the housing issue of young and socially disadvantaged people. Of course, this is not an argument at this point that would have led to the denial of aid to those living at the border, because of this proposal we will not oppose the law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	Word The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for her Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	Your Honor! The consideration of the proposal for a law on the regulation of certain issues for the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal rounds the debate on a package of laws whereby the Republic of Slovenia implements the decisions of the arbitral tribunal on the border between our country and the Republic of Croatia. The symbolic significance of these agenda items is even greater. By using arbitration as a means of settling disputes peacefully, the subject of a dispute has been resolved which has burdened the State and the relations between them since the beginning of their independence. The discerning anonymous author says that man invented boundaries not to interfere with them, but to cross them. Since 29 June 2017, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia have known the exact course of the border between them, and therefore all the conditions are met for this border to be crossed as often as possible physically and metaphorically. The existence of a border, and in particular the past inadequacies about it, are felt most by the people living or carrying out their activities at the southern border, and should therefore be given special attention. The competent committee of the State Foreign Policy Chamber has already, at the time of the oral declaration of the arbitral tribunal's judgment, committed itself to the consistent respect of international law and the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, to the dialogue with Croatia in the implementation of the judgment and to the particular care to be given to the people of the border band directly concerned by the judgment. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken this into account in the steps it has taken to implement the judgment in both the substantive and procedural terms. Following the urgent procedure, we are adopting a proposal for a law designed to preserve the rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have been harmed by the judgment of the arbitral tribunal or to regulate certain new substitute rights for them. By means of a proposal for a law, citizens residing in a territory that will no longer belong to the Republic of Slovenia after the arbitral tribunal’s ruling allow for the preservation of social security, social security and health insurance rights. The second set of provisions of the law regulates rights and obligations relating to agricultural activities, while the third set can include provisions relating to fisheries. The adoption of the bill will, inter alia, allow the Republic of Slovenia to offer financial assistance to individuals or families who are owners, co-owners or if the amendment of the coalition, which makes the law even more viable, owners of properties in the territory which, following the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, is no longer part of the Slovenian territory. The content of these rights stems from the needs expressed by the people themselves in direct contact with government representatives. Despite the individual approach, it has not been possible to agree with all proposals, but it is worth stressing that the Government's working group has verified the match between the final set of substantive solutions to the actual needs of the population and economic operators on the ground. We will therefore carefully prepare a bill to facilitate the lives of people when our country's border is finally established with the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! This amendment is, of course, worth the attention and will receive support from the New Slovenia Group. Dear colleague Zvonko Lah announced on behalf of the Group how the parliamentary group will vote in majority. I am here to make it very clear that I cannot support this law, I will oppose it. I know too well the situation at this moment at the border on land, at a border that is not set. I know the situation too well in Prekmurje, because I come from there. I think we've all been keeping a low profile on what people are experiencing today. I repeat, however, that the border has not yet been established. We have only a judgment of the arbitral tribunal, which I have always held, as do my colleagues and colleagues in New Slovenia, that there is a need to respect the judgments of the courts, whatever if we want to build a legal state, if what the fathers of Europe have drawn, which have decided 60 years ago, to link the continent with the power of law and not with the power of weapons. I welcome these efforts made by the government to prepare these laws. Of course, I understand that on 29 December, the deadline for both States Parties to the arbitration agreement to do everything necessary to implement the judgment is that of the parties. But this week – it may sound a little too local-patriotic or whatever you're going to be evaluating – I had a house full of people at home because it's Monday and I can't be in the office because I'm here. People are asking me for help because they say that no one can help them and have no answers, why they are now receiving an invitation from the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to submit data relating to the basic agricultural and basic forestry activity for 2017, and of course it is a declaration of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities on agricultural land outside Slovenia – that is, Croatia. I know the provisions of the Income Act, so there is no need to debate about this, but simple people like Slovenia explain it this way: Aha, now the judgment of the arbitral tribunal and this authority has struck first by its own. Ask people, I can barely hold them back and comfort them. Of course, there is still an awkward diction that this information is necessary, that the debtor, the owner of the land on the Croatian cadastral, must report that double taxation would not occur. We know international treaties, mainly in Article 6 talking about avoiding double taxation. Croatia has not taxed these citizens who have land on the Croatian cadastral to date. When our tax administration calculates the tax, the tax will be paid in the country where the land is located, nothing. What's the problem? It is not a problem that the property tax should be paid, of course it is, here is not a debate, but right now they got this invitation and very short deadline, some have already missed an eight-day deadline, even though the deadline was actually that I was quite precise, on July 17th. On 17 July this year, these revenues from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities should therefore be declared. This has now been practically an invitation to a kind of reminder and is, as it were said, an eight - day period. It hurts me, in particular, why citizens don't get informed and explain themselves in a kinder way, because people are now explaining that this is due to arbitration. I deleted the name so someone wouldn't sneer by name because it's tax confidentiality and I can't show names. These are things that I do not think should happen, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, I expected that those who are and will suffer some material damage, see, these are not rich people, they are simple farmers, of course also some entrepreneurs who have plants in the cadastral municipality of Croatia, say Sv. Martin on the Wall, and they will suffer, some greater, some minor material damage. In this context, I expected the country to be more friendly with them. I welcome the visits that were on the ground, and I myself have been curious about this law. If we look at the financial framework that the country's obligations under this law are to some poor 4 million euros. Once again, people at the border are modest, not hungry for money. I am not saying that with a large shovel they need money to “roll”. No, no one wants that. But he wants me to make sure he doesn't lose anything with that verdict. Is that the right attitude? Will we protect our citizens? Put yourself in their role, you know what they say, "as soon as they draw this border, I'll leave it to the Croats, and that patch of soil that rag of forest," they say. This will stay there, as the young are no longer on the farm what you will do with that. This is where I really expected a little more of this human relationship, not this sublime with some bureaucratic view and bureaucratic reception. My apologies, Mr President, this content is not exactly about this amendment that you have opened up the debate about, but rather, dear colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the government, I have no other option than to make the problems of the field present here. Someone can make fun of me, but I'm obliged to transfer this hardship to this auditorium. I hope at least some ear is open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. But I obviously have a completely different view of what is happening with regard to the adoption of these laws and also of how the government behaved in this particular case. I didn't see any greatness in this case. What I've seen is that right after the verdict was announced, the government went to the field, listening to people without any sublime approach, as you have just mentioned. So from my point of view, I can only commend the work of the government in this case. But what people on the ground have said, and we also have in the package of these laws, which we are going to confirm today, I hope. The solutions that people have sought to be adopted are in these laws. It is about making life easier for people who want to stay on the Croatian side after the verdict, and who also feel like they belong to Slovenia, to make life easier for them, to help them solve their housing problems or to rent agricultural land and so on. In short, what people on the ground have said is what we have on the table today, which is what we have in marriage today, so I really don't see one good reason why these laws wouldn't be confirmed. The fact that Croatia does not want and insists on not admitting this verdict cannot be an excuse for us not to do our job. If we want to end up just following and enforcing this verdict, we need to behave as we should, so that we know that this judgment is valid and that it is true. If the opposite side thinks not, we cannot behave according to its tactics, but it is important for us to prepare within these six months everything we need to prepare on our side, even if the Croats stand by and just watch or not, this is not important to us. It is important to us that this enforcement will finally come to an end and that is why what we are doing today is important, and it is important that these laws, including what we are now talking about, are also adopted. As for the amendment, as mentioned earlier today, when we discussed it on the Committee, the problem of tenants has been raised, which is regulated by this amendment, because it is certainly important for us and for the Government that the difficulties arising from the verdict be resolved, and in a dignified and absolutely innocuous way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	Replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased that respected colleague Simon Zajc also met with Prekmurci, about whom I speak, who have properties in Croatia. Maybe we've met with some completely different groups, you and me, me and the other. But I said this honestly — and I didn't make anything up — what people told me. I explain to them the Income Act, article 69 of the international treaty, which speaks of avoiding double taxation and so on. But I told you what perception people have. Of course, I agree, I'm not sad that I wasn't there, but I'm not a government Member, so I'm kind of second-rate when the government went to certain positions right after the verdict. But I would expect that, at the same time, when she went to Mirište, where there is a bright spot and I know all those people who are extremely happy about the verdict that they remain in Slovenia in order to stay in Slovenia, but at the same time, the same day also stopped in the case of those who were severely affected. However, it may be that I am not only a farmer with whom the family business has been established for three generations and has been handicapped all the time, no subsidies, no aid, not by law, since it is the establishment of the company in Slovenia and the plant in the cadastral municipality of Sveti Martin on Mura. And what will this young owner do now? Tell me!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Nice greeting also to representatives of the government, ministries, fellow Members and fellow Members! I stopped by because I'm living at the border myself, and I kind of feel this borderline way of life. I've been monitoring these events myself, happening to a lot of people there. I'd say simple people also understand a problem sometimes and even the least they get involved in because they live in some kind of co-existence. So now I don't understand why we need to now that the government has somehow as a team very responsibly tackled this problem, but of course also applications of international arbitration, which is an internationally recognised document. We also expect Croatia to take it into account. If I refer a little bit to the debates I have heard today, as well as to the reports, I somehow do not understand why this fast, effective approach of the Government, which has shown a relationship with the man who lives there, who has problems. I watched it myself on TV. I wasn't on this team, but I saw that the Prime Minister himself and the team sitting here now met with people with problems. That is how I would like to commend this approach from this point of view. However, I am concerned that now that we have an internationally recognised document, some have announced some obstructions and have criticised the approach. I don't think that's state-of-the-art. On the basis of this international document, which we also recognise, we must immediately take an active approach to the application of these documents into our legislation, because otherwise someone would say that we are not acting in the direction of this arbitration, and someone could also tell us that we are not even realizing it in practice. So I would call on all parliamentarians here, both the position and the opposition, to support this legislation, because it is a significant shift and we are following an internationally recognised document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	The representative of the Government, Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag, has the floor. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you. I would like to explain what Mr Horvat has said about what has been sent. I must regret and regret that the inhabitants have accepted it this way. The fact is, people probably always react when they get something. It is about the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has done its job at the end of the year and that, in order to properly account, it has sent a notice to all recipients of the subsidies that they are familiar with the tax administration, whether they are also processing land outside the Republic of Slovenia, so we are talking about whether it is possible in the Republic of Italy, the Republic of Austria, Hungary or Croatia. Let me add that we exempt those areas and those of the inhabitants of Croatia where the territory was disputed. For them, it was not exactly for this reason that we should not irritate people in this purpose. However, I am sorry and please, if you can also tell people that this is a completely regular task of the country which is carrying out it for 2017. In addition, we must be aware that this law will enter into force once the state border is registered. I understand people's feelings. But I would like you to tell them as a Member that the Government has just done its job. Let me also say that at the time we were on the ground, they said it was the first government to come to listen to their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 21 and the new Article 27b are substantively linked and will be discussed together. I therefore put to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to this Article and the amendment of the same proposal for a new Article 27b. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item as well as the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 11 and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: items 21, 22, 23 and 24 of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point, and also for the next three, which relate to the substantive same set of issues related to the arbitral tribunal's ruling on the border with the Republic of Croatia, our Group will obstruct. I can point this out at every point, and I can explain it in particular, but I don't think there's any need, and this explanation will be enough for everyone. The fact is that it is possible to carry out the border finding procedure and any consequences arising therefrom only with the consent of the two parties involved. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia does not want to participate in discussions on the implementation of the arbitral tribunal's decision at all times and since the decision was taken. As you know, the Presidents of the Government cannot agree on the agenda of the items and how this interview is to be held, so we estimate that these unilateral decisions taken by the National Assembly at this time are unlikely to be harmful. Our parliamentary group has decided not to take part in the consideration and adoption of these laws, because these are laws that represent only a unilateral approach, which do not solve anything that relates to the land border, nothing that relates to the maritime border. Both solutions are bad for Slovenia. As we say, we will obstruct these four laws in our decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on the Registration of the State Border with the Republic of Croatia by urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, representatives and representatives of the government! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will vote in favour of the entire package on which we are voting today for the so-called arbitration legislation and for all the amendments tabled by the coalition. Why? Because this is our first political responsibility, which, in fact, we must take as a result of one too long process, which has taken place practically since independence, a process in which political responsibility has also been borne by those political parties who have announced obstruction today, that is to say, political parties who obviously want their political responsibility for the time they have to commit to others. There is no problem at all, because we are united in the National Assembly this summer, all the parliamentary groups said that we would respect the arbitration verdict and that we would do everything we could to make it work. And that's what we're doing with the vote today and a few more tomorrow. For these reasons, with a clear and simple simple political responsibility to the Republic of Slovenia, we will vote in favour of these laws in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. (The vote was 45.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Land Book Act by emergency procedure. Since the amendments to the draft law have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the bill. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. (The vote was 45.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries by emergency procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 27. 11. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 3. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the regulation of certain issues due to the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal on the basis of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on an urgent basis. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 11. 2017, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 17. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 21. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal for a new paragraph 27.b. If this amendment is not adopted, it will become an amendment to the same proposal for a new 27.b. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to the new paragraph 27.b. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that in the second reading, the assembly received amendments to Articles 17 and 21 and to the new Article 27b of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! When the judgment of the arbitral tribunal was announced, we were disappointed in Novi Slovenija. Last but not least, we lost 20% of the Bay of Piran and lost everything we could lose on land, with the exception of the smell. It's hard to say such a judgment by an arbitral tribunal of success. For us this is certainly a failure, and for these things those responsible will also have to take responsibility in the future. Let me add at this point that I really do not understand Croatia that they do not want to implement these decisions in such a successful decision and in such a favourable decision, which is for them in this case. But despite the fact that Nova Slovenija said that it was an extraordinary, extremely disappointing decision, we were aware and aware today that such a verdict was necessary to be respected and implemented in accordance with international law. This law, which we are about to vote on today, is somehow crucial, by how we will help the people affected by this arbitration. Remember, everyone in this room, how soon after the verdict, politics rushed to say that it would do whatever it took to help the affected people. And what New Slovenia notes is that this law, which is before us today, does not help all people, as promised. I will point out two concrete cases so that you do not say that I speak in general and in mind. Remember how disappointed Joras was when he realized that he had stayed on the other side of the border, but in those days he fought tremendously for not only him, but also his descendants in the event of any accident or other tragedy, to have the opportunity to inherit land owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. He warned that he had planted 500 olives that could be taken away from him and his family under strange circumstances. The second example is the case of a concrete plant in Hotiz, because we have also forgotten about the economy of an economic society. The man has invested millions in this concrete facility, now he will remain on the other side of the border. And you can't say that we've taken proper care of all people. We didn't. That is why Nova Slovenija will oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-27-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
