ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Ludmila Novak, Violeta Tomić, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Dr. László Göncz, Roberto Battelli, Matjaž Hanžek, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec and Matjaž Han. I welcome everyone here. [[Laughing in the hall]] One was too many, so Matjaž Han is present. We are moving on to the continuation of the 18th item of the agenda, this is to continue the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on migration issues. Before continuing the general debate, we will first decide on the proposal by the SDS Group to postpone the debate on agenda item 18 on the basis of Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to one of the following meetings of the National Assembly. We are moving to a vote on this proposal. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted by the National Assembly, so we will hold a debate on the 18th item of the agenda at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the notification of the succession of the State Treaty on the Establishment of an Indeterminate and Democratic Austria. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of seven Members and Members, first signed by Dr Matei T. Vatovci, for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal for a recommendation is at the 80th session of the 10th session. 4. 2017 treated the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Since the Government's opinion on the proposal for a recommendation is marked by the level of confidentiality, I am warning the representatives of the parliamentary groups that in their presentations the views do not indicate the confidential nature of this material. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the opening, let me say that, in dealing with the matter in the field of foreign policy, Nova Slovenije voted against the proposal for a recommendation. But surely our decision would be different if the commitments of the coalition set out in the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the 2014–2018 term were fully realized, which states in Chapter 4.27 of the Foreign Policy, I quote: "The key foreign policy will be to restore credibility and strengthen the foreign policy visibility of the country and of all our peoples at home and around the world." End of quote. Today, let us ask ourselves: Is our foreign policy credible? Is our voice heard and taken into account in the European Union? Slovenia is recognised in the European Union and in the world at least as much as it was during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2008. Therefore, since Slovenian foreign policy is not credible and is not expected to become credible within three months, there is no possibility for the Republic of Slovenia to carry out a notification of the succession of the State Treaty establishing an independent and democratic Austria. The applicant gives the Government a three-month deadline for the submission of the act, so I am talking about the expectations over the next three months. Ladies and gentlemen, the prerequisite for notifying the succession of the Austrian State Treaty is a silent diplomacy at the highest level that would achieve all the necessary consensus with the depositary, Austria, the allies and the countries that have emerged from the SFRY. However, the necessary condition for this is an appropriate credible external policy and diplomacy with the best staff, which we can overcome in the Republic of Slovenia at the highest level. We do not have this today, so once again we have more benefits if we act as if we were already represented in the ADP, because Yugoslavia probably did not sign contracts because of Serbia or Montenegro. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have requested written opinions from representatives of the umbrella organisations of the Slovenian indigenous national community in Austria. None of the organisations responded by a written opinion, which we can also understand as a confirmation of the non-creditability of Slovenian foreign policy. In a poor decade after the economic divide with the late country chief Jörg Haider, the Austrian country of Koroska has recovered nicely and has been politically restructured so that the Korean Slovenes have also breathed a little easier. This year, however, it fell again. The proposal for amendments to the Austrian Constitution is certainly not in the spirit of Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty and, above all, it is not in favour of the living Slovenian community there. Let me remind you that in this regard, the New Slovenia Group has requested the convening of an urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Commission on Relations with Slovenians, both in place and in the world. This requirement also encouraged the Government to increase its engagement as a protective force. We expect that we all know the famous historical facts that the first country language in Kroškem was Slovenian, that in Slovenian until 1414 the embodiment of the princes of the country or the duke took place, that the Slovenian language was then recognized as the official language and the second language of the country in Koroškem until the end of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy of 1918. She was totally expelled from the public only during the Nazi era. The president of the National Council of the Korean Slovenes has given an impact, this is a great humiliation and something we have not experienced so far. However, the matter is not only an emotional and symbolic pay, but also a legal one, since in addition to the historical facts and today's co-existence, the Forum for Dialogue with the Land Government has also been ignored, which must give an opinion on such issues under the Statute. Let us say that this time, in the spirit of good neighborly relations, it will be successful. But relying on the management of matters with the hope of understanding and assisting the good-natured Februaryes of Austrian politics cannot be a strategic item in Slovenia's foreign policy as a sovereign state. The first country or federal elections in the neighbouring country can change considerably. The country of Koroška did not experience systematic denacification in 1945 and sparks of anti-Slovenian fear will continue to fall into the minds of some on the shadow side of Karavank. The 28-year-old Mayan Declaration should be our joint call for the full implementation of the Coalition Agreement in the field of foreign policy. I repeat, the key foreign policy orientation will be to restore credibility and strengthen the foreign policy visibility of the country and of all our peoples at home and around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u3	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u4	Your Honor! The presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups concludes the consideration of the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the notification of the succession of the Austrian State Treaty. Looking beyond the previous mandate shows that the topic under consideration has evolved into some informal parliamentary practice that is unlikely to end today. While the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly informs the National Assembly of developments relating to the Austrian State Treaty, any extraordinary event, whether micro or large, which at least indirectly concerns the situation and rights of the indigenous Slovenian National Community in the Republic of Austria, in any reference to the National Assembly or at that time floods the call of any of the political options to notify this Treaty. During the current term of office, a new debate was opened with more or less earlier arguments on the adoption of a new country constitution for Austria. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we immediately expressed concern about the conclusion of political compromises that would undermine the level of co-existence between members of the Slovenian national community and the majority population in the Austrian Koroška. At the same time, we have made it very clear that support for members of the Slovenian National Community is neither conditional nor related to the decision on the notification of the Austrian State Treaty. Again and very clearly in this place it is necessary to say that this decision is not a matter of the Slovenian national community in the Republic of Austria, but it concerns us and our foreign policy. If several times and with greater responsibility were to talk about Slovenian foreign policy on the basis of a declaration on foreign policy that we have adopted ourselves, then it would be easier to understand that foreign policy is not an extended period of internal policy struggle. A credible and successful foreign policy is coherent, principled and continuous, as our declaration seeks when it says that Slovenia wants to develop a coherent, credible and integrated foreign policy. The official, principled and established position of the Republic of Slovenia is that Slovenia is the legal and actual successor of the Austrian State Treaty. Calls for notification are unnecessary because our State of Succession is already applying in accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Succession of States with regard to international treaties and with rules of customary international law. Notification is nothing more than a unilateral legal act by which the Republic of Slovenia would repeat its position, and in this case it cannot say twice as much as never. By making a notification decision at a given time, we could send a false signal that Slovenia has not acted as a successor to the Austrian State Treaty or even opened the way for claims that Slovenia has not acted rightly in the past as a protector of the indigenous Slovenian national community in the Republic of Austria. For this reason, we have also voted unanimously against the proposal for a recommendation in our parliamentary group. From the point of view of the members of the Slovenian National Community, the most important fact is that the Republic of Austria is obliged to respect all relevant domestic legislation at national and federal level and the international instruments in the field of human rights and the protection of minorities to which it has joined. The standards set or voluntarily adopted by the Republic of Austria should be maintained and strengthened through the dialogue of Slovenia, both with the Slovenian National Community in Austria and with the representatives of the Republic of Austria. In this light, the SMC Group will always support proposals aimed at listening and understanding as neighbours in a wider European country rather than being foreign to each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u5	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! At the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and of the Commission on Relations with Slovenians, representatives of the Desus Group in place and around the world, we rejected the Proposal for a Recommendation on Succession Notification. Let me give you some reasons. The notifiers claim that the succession and the specific rights deriving from it can only be exercised by formal notification of the succession of the Austrian State Treaty. If we do not do so, the Republic of Slovenia should be in a worse position than the Republic of Austria and the four major allies recognised by the then Yugoslavia. 7. Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, which regulates the rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria, according to the proposaler's opinion is not sufficiently realistic and there is no real progress in the development of bilinguality. As we heard from the proposer at the said meeting, Austria is expected to challenge the rights recognised by Slovenia in the context of the then Yugoslavia. The notification is intended to provide a tool for more consistent pressure on Austria, as regards the implementation of the policy of the indigenous Slovenian National Community. Since the issue of the notification of the Austrian State Treaty arises almost every year, even this year we could not have avoided this topic from the cities of the rough transformation of the Carinthian Land Constitution. One of the fundamental issues raised in the Desus Group in this regard is whether the notification itself would contribute to improving the situation of the Slovenian national community in Austria. This was the subject of a joint assessment by those most affected by this institution, i.e. representatives of the Slovenian national community. They mainly stressed that the climate in Koroška has improved significantly since the solution of bilingual inscriptions, so they felt that it would not be wise to open the notification issue now that we are on the right track to reach some compromise in the country constitution. Many legal and political arguments say that notification in the current political reality would not make sense, representatives of the Slovenian national community also thought. In doing so, we would also like to point out that we agree with the position of the foreign ministry that the Republic of Slovenia is considered to be the successor of this treaty, both under international customary and contractual law, and acts as a real protector of the indigenous Slovenian national community. In doing so, Slovenia also refers to universal and regional instruments for the protection of human rights and the rights of minorities. The Austrian State Treaty is a valid contract because Austria respects the legal succession of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that without notification, Slovenians on the other hand enjoy no less rights than they would no longer be acquired by notification. We therefore voted against the Proposal for a Recommendation from the Government to notify the Austrian State Treaty in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The notification of the Austrian State Treaty is a content that must not fall into the trap of political conversion of a political party, but concerns the entire Slovenian State and thus a policy that must be unified on this issue. Social Democrats see the notification of the ADP as an important action, both in view of the final realization of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and as the basis for the further realization of its independence, thereby strengthening good relations of succession with regard to issues of the Slovenian minority and other issues addressed by the ADP. We are therefore convinced that it is necessary to approach notification with political maturity and with a unified view to Slovenian policy, which must be carried out primarily in the context of the current international circumstances, particularly in the interests of achieving our national interests and at the same time strengthening good neighbourly relations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. It would be difficult to find a more significant date for discussion on the Austrian State Treaty. Before us is the anniversary of victory over the fascists, behind us is the anniversary of the establishment of the Liberation Front. 7. Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, which protects the Slovenian and Croatian minorities, is an important achievement of this fight. More. Without the fight of our partisans in Koroška and the operation of Austrian units within our partisan army, there would be no Austrian state treaty. The allies would treat Austria in the same way as other Nazi German satellites. It is therefore extremely unfair that Austria does not recognise us as party to the Austrian State Treaty. The rejection of our legacy notification initiative, however, proves that our political class agrees with a subordinate attitude towards the northern neighbour. In fact, our foreign policy is increasingly similar to the policies of the countries that were in the Fascist camp in the second war. On the one hand, it is servile to Western power centres, and on the other hand it is extremely conflicting to say Croatia, although we do have many more interests in common with it. If anyone thinks the Austrian state contract is obsolete, he's wrong. Article 7 is still the strongest guardian of minority rights in Austria and its provisions are still not satisfactorily fulfilled. Until Slovenia enforces its legacy, it may express its views, but these views are not legally binding. These are the reasons why we insist on notifying socialists. Alleged reasons for non-notification do not hold up serious judgment. On the one hand, Minister Erjavec says that notifying an inheritance would not change anything. But if that is the case, why does Austria and all four of them object? On the other hand, Minister Erjavec scares us that notification is uncertain. But look, the Czech Republic notified its successor in May 2014 and joined the list of accessions led by the Russian Federation. The third objection of Minister Erjavac was that notification would harm our minority and that relations with Austria would harm such a thing. But look, the notification of the legacy of the Ottoman agreements with Italy did not harm either the minority or Slovenia. In 2001, the minority finally obtained the protection law and it was because of the notification that Slovenia successfully resisted the Italian requirements for the return of properties of optants. Of course, there will be someone here who will claim that the contracts are not comparable, but in fact there are no more comparable contracts in our legal order. They both confirm the border's flow, define the protection of minorities and compensation for property seized. And let us not forget that when Slovenia notified the legacy of the Ottoman Agreements, the recognition of the legacy depended only on Italy and the question of the succession of the republics after Yugoslavia had not yet begun to be resolved. How do I end it? At the beginning of the term of office, the coalition introduced a new state holiday – the day of sovereignty. But Slovenia has never been less sovereign than it is under Cerar's government. This is not only about the notification of the Austrian State Treaty, but in particular about the universal privatisation of public property in favour of foreign power centres. The Coalition has just passed the Second Tier Act. According to the government plan, Hungary will become the only half-owner of this billion-dollar strategic infrastructure for only 200 million euros, so that I do not mention tied-up transactions in Luka Koper at all. I think this tells us all about the true sovereignty of the state and the statehood of the current government. To conclude, I would like to remind our fellow citizens that the Social Democrats and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek announced in June 2015 that they are in favour of notifying the succession of the Austrian State Treaty. But they didn't support our recommendation on the board. As usual, they say one thing and do the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u11	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a recommendation in connection with the public schedule for co-financing of the doctoral study. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of six Members and first-signed Mr Miho Kordiš. The proposal for a recommendation is at the 26th session of the 11th session. 4. 2017 treated the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor! True, after years of crisis, after last year a co-financing scheme for a doctoral study was reinstated. It is also true that the new Higher Education Act stipulates that the State also co-finances doctoral studies. So it is co-financed, although unfortunately we do not define anywhere, to what extent it is co-financed at least to a minimum. For a society that wants science, development and progress, this is certainly the right way. Although we also agree in the Group of Non-Related Members that doctoral candidates and doctoral candidates should be allowed to complete and explore and, above all, to co-finance studies, we did not agree with the recommendations themselves, so we did not receive our support. What I would like to point out, however, is what I was talking about when I asked the Minister an oral question at the last meeting of the National Assembly, and in addition to co-financing the doctoral study, there is an understanding of the public higher education area. It is true that the Minister has said that there are no concessional institutions at the third stage, but it is still not fully clear what is meant by the concept of a public institution. Not least, the Constitutional Court has warned of this. In our Group of Members, we believe that the student and his research are what must be the focus. If we want quality and not quantity, then such an approach is necessary. Each doctorate should be treated individually and not necessarily by the institution conducting this study. The representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, as well as the state councillor, were also reminded of similar things at the meeting of the parent committee. But there was no regulation at the time. Today, when the regulation has already been adopted, it is clear that there are quite a few things that still need to be addressed. A lot of words are spoken, we talk a lot, and we seem to hear worse. That is why I called a meeting of the committee I am chairing to discuss the co-financing regulation of the doctoral study in 2017 and 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SMC Group, at the meeting of the parent working body, we rejected the proposal because of its confusion, imperfection, inadequacy and in certain points of non-compliance with higher education law. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the panellist praised the measures taken by this Government and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in addressing the issue of studies at the third stage and in regulating co-financing at the legal level. Thus, the applicant argues that the system of co-financing in the light of past poor experience needs to be reformed and set in a direction that preserves and further promotes the quality of higher education. The first step was taken last year by the adoption of a new law on higher education. We stress that the amendment of the law has made an important step towards the integrated regulation of the system of doctoral study, in particular its funding. After several years of silence, we are thus making a clear commitment at the normative level that the doctoral studies will be co-financed by integrated resources in public higher education institutions in accordance with budgetary capabilities. The periods of unstable and uncertain funding only through cohesion funds are fortunately over. These steps continue in 2017 with the adoption of a new regulation that will be in line with the adopted Higher Education Act and the new funding model for higher education. Third-degree co-financing will be determined by an annual decision of the Minister, taking into account the number of graduates of the third level of the public higher education institution in the last five years. In 2016-2018 alone, this government will spend slightly less than €5 million to finance a doctoral study. Let us once again note that the doctoral study was last co-financed in 2012, with European or cohesion funds based on innovative schemes. Let me put out two more. In the SMC Group, we are not inclined to reintroduce standard schooling in a doctoral study, as this ultimately leads to a chief funding model, which, according to our well-known positions in the past year, was opposed by the proposaler. With regard to the restrictions on co-financing of doctoral studies in public higher education institutions alone, we add that, at the third stage, there are no concessions for student programmes, which resolves a number of dilemmas regarding which institutions the state is obliged to co-finance doctoral studies. In my opinion, we welcome the measures already taken and expect further positive action by this government and the ministry to address the problem of doctoral study in an integrated manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have already rejected the recommendations in the Desus Group at the time of treatment on the parent’s working body. In view of what has been explained on the Committee by the Ministry, the recommendations, as proposed, are not necessary after our assessment of some of them and others are not appropriate to be accepted. The legal framework itself, both the legal basis which has changed with the last amendment of the Higher Education Act, as well as the regulatory level, which at the implementing level regulates the conditions and criteria of the tender itself and the co-financing of studies at the third level and is currently in the final stage of adoption, constitute progress at this level. Moreover, as we have heard, financial participation from the state integrated budget has also been improved, so that the actual situation in this area is indeed improving. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we agree that knowledge is the future. It is commendable that, according to the share of the population with tertiary education, we are at the level of the average of the European Union. More. It is remarkable that we are at the very top of the European Union by the number of PhDs reached. However, we cannot help but wonder what is wrong with this country that it is so unemployed with higher education. What is wrong with young people with completed colleges working for running lanes in a factory, filling shelves in stores, and serving bars for minimum wage? Are the supply and demand incompatible? Is this because of the disagreement between knowledge and the skills of graduates? We believe that universities should respond appropriately to such a situation. Also on the other hand, economic operators, because I fear that the latter do not appreciate the added value that young people bring with their knowledge to a company. All they have to do is give them a chance. I'm gonna stop here because it's a topic for another time. As for today's proposals, however, the recommendations made by the United Left Group, as already mentioned above, are not supported in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u17	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. A nice hello to you all! In the Group of Social Democrats, we stress the importance of accessibility and quality at all levels of the educational vertical, and even when it comes to a doctoral study that we understand as part of the study activity, we believe that its funding must also be regulated from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. If we look at the current regulatory framework for public financial support for a doctoral study, it is largely replaced by Article 72a of the Higher Education Act, which provides, inter alia, that, in accordance with available budgetary resources, third-level studies are also co-financed in public higher education institutions. What availability will be, however, depends on the priority of the governing policy, and we must, of course, have before us the fact that the level of funding also determines the number of doctoral students. We therefore call on the future amendment of the Higher Education Act to define the availability of budgetary resources more precisely if we are to establish a predictable environment for the development of this level of study. While the doctoral study is based on research work, the extent of accessibility also depends on the appropriate capacity of higher education institutions, including the number of mentors. Therefore, in determining the criteria for entry and quality of standards, higher education institutions have a crucial role to play, which must be based on the quality of the knowledge and skills of the student, and must by no means be the exclusion moment in the selection of candidates for his material position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u19	The word is also given by the Group of the United Left, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. We made a recommendation regarding the co-financing of the doctoral study in the United Left for a clear purpose. Co-financing should be adapted to students and financial measures should apply quality criteria for admission to doctoral studies rather than the criteria for the student’s property or the property of the family from which it comes. We welcomed the provision of the Higher Education Act, which brought guaranteed co-financing to the legislative level. This was a good move by the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, a lonely move, practically the only one we can attach to it, though. In the years when the co-financing was withdrawn, the admission to a doctoral study decreased by 55%, says it fell by more than half. This is a very eloquent information that shows that a doctoral study, thus developing people, science, research and so on without State support for most students, is simply not. During this period, many prospective students had to abandon their ambitions after a third stage study simply because of their own social situation. On the Committee, we discussed these recommendations and neither a member of the coalition nor the right discussed the recommendation. And that says a lot about the relationship of the Slovenian political class to the doctoral study. It seems to you, ladies and gentlemen, that a third-degree study is intended for social cream, an elite that can pay for this study. But it's not really like that or at least it shouldn't be. Financially, this study must be accessible to everyone and, of course, to the best. Instead of those who can pay for their studies, the performance criteria apply. Evaluations, special achievements, including acceptance exams, if you want them in any way, that is the definition of fair treatment, not property selection. To get to a fairer position, we can use the following weeds. First time. It should be ensured that, in view of the refusal of co-financing of the university, if possible, individual students are not required to pay their share of the tuition and that their discharge is carried out without causing additional costs. We know what the practice was in the last season when some colleges put this expense on the shoulders of students. It was from a few hundred euros, up to a thousand 500 euros hard to hear. Another time. In addition to co-financing of tuition, money incentives or scholarships can also be made possible in a similar way as an innovative scheme has already regulated in the past. Most of those students, who are not young researchers, who work in some form of recreation, although they are the brightest minds of the generation and study for a breakthrough, are found in the ministry purely on the basis of naked survival or in some other form of student work that is not related to their direction of study. Unlike the money incentives, we can't go beyond that, let the student study, but not that he's rooting for the bear. Third time. The standard fees are to be introduced. This would limit the growth of school fees that go into the clouds, not because they would increase the actual cost of study, but because of the growing appetites of academic Mandarins. Fourth time. The budget should provide sufficient funds for co-financing for each student to be 100 % or that the doctoral study will be free of charge. There is no doubt that in the coalition, the demands we made in the United Left are foreign to you. Although it is a completely rational measure, two of them have already been in force in the past, on the committee with rapid pressure on the “against” issue of students and doctoral study you simply swept under the rug. But it's not a surprising move. Both the Ministry of Education and the entire university space control privileged academic clicks, clearly, with hunters deep into coalition parties. And crows don't turn off their eyes. The cost of this is paid by students, their families and quality studies, and as a result the whole society, which loses its research, scientific and other potential for progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and finally the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I mean, tomorrow's gonna be a new day, but it's better to just say that there's a new day coming for that night too. That's why I wish you all a good night.
