ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Jelka Godec, Marija Bachič from 12 p.m. on, Iva Dimic from 17 p.m. on, Erika Dekleva until 15 p.m., Vesna Vervega until 13 p.m., Susanna Lepi Šimenko, Matjaž Han from 17 p.m. on, Uroš Prikl from 16 p.m., Zvonko Lah, Roberto Battelli, Franz Breznik, Branislav Rajić until 15 p.m., Tomaž Gantar from 13 p.m. on and Luka Mesec from 13 p.m. on. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SEA LEGISLATION BY THE EXTERNAL PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, which we have prepared at the Ministry of Infrastructure in cooperation with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. In particular, the proposed law aims at establishing a general legal basis for the issue of sub-legislative acts by the Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs and at supplementing and establishing the legal basis for the issue of a sub-legislative act by the Government. The law also contains some corrections and compliance with other laws and editorial corrections. The bill thus contains 10 and 11 articles with the following amendments and additions, which I will briefly present. Article 1 lays down the legal basis for the issue of sub-laws of the Minister relating to the performance of the tasks of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs. Article 2 provides for an editorial correction concerning the fee for the use of navigational safety facilities. Article 3 lays down the legal basis for determining and dividing the share of the concession fee between the local communities in which the land part of the Cyprus port of loading is located and provides for the purpose of spending the share of the concession fee. The calculation of the share and the purpose of the concession fee will be further regulated by a sub-legislative act, i.e. by a government regulation. The provision on pre-emptive rights has also been improved and it has been established that the Republic of Slovenia is a decommissioning beneficiary of property within the port, allowing the Republic of Slovenia to manage these land effectively. This article also takes into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In Article 4, the legal basis for the issue of a sub-legal act of the Government, which has already been adopted, for the implementation of the navigation control system shall be supplemented. Articles 5, 6 and 7 also deal with minor editorial corrections. However, in Article 8, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the amendments adopted by the Committee, this Article is deleted. Provisions on the cessation of the application of the provisions on the entry of sports rowing boats, such as soups, and small boats with low motor power on inland waters shall instead be placed in the transitional provisions of the law. Article 9 lays down the time limit for the adoption of the Government's sub-legislative act referred to in Article 3, which shall be 6 months from the entry into force of this Act. In Article 10, it is also an editorial correction to terminate Article 33a, second paragraph, of the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport from the date of the application of this Act. This is in line with the 2016 amendment of the Maritime Code, which provided that compulsory insurance must be concluded for the duration of use of the boat and not for the duration of validity of the licence. In addition, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service referred to in Article 8, provisions on the termination of the provisions on the entry into force of sports and rowing boats, as I mentioned earlier, shall also be transposed. In this way, the provisions of the Law on inland waterways in this part shall be uniformly incorporated into the provisions of the Maritime Code, under which those vessels are no longer registered, even if they are engaged in an economic activity. Article 11 also provides for the entry into force of the Act, which is the day following the publication of the Official Journal, in order that the amendments to the Law on Inland Waters withdrawing the obligation to enter into force immediately with a view to implementing this summer season. As already mentioned, paragraphs 3, 8 and 10 of the draft law are drawn up on the basis of and in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, taking into account all their comments. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a work of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 30th meeting, on 28. 6. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 98th meeting, on 9. 6. 2017 has taken a decision to consider the proposal of the law following a reduced procedure. Amendments to Articles 3, 8 and 10 of the SMC, Desus and SD were tabled within the time limit. In its supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, stressed that the aim of the draft law was in particular to establish the general legal basis for the issue of subcontractive acts by the Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs, to supplement the legal basis for the issue of the sub-law act of the Government and to establish the legal basis for the division of concessional duties between the local communities in which the land part of the port of Cyprus is located. The aim is also to comply with other laws and to improve the text editorially. As important was the introduction of a certain relief in the provisions on the entry of sports rowboats, including soups, and small boats with low motor power on inland waters. These provisions are aligned with the provisions of the Code of the Marine Code, which means that those vessels will no longer have to be entered in the register even if they are engaged in an economic activity. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service, in accordance with its powers, had drawn up an opinion on the draft law and had made some comments which were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill. He pointed out that, with regard to the establishment of a legal basis for the division of concession fee between the local communities in which the land part of the Koper port is located, the question was raised as to whether the concession fee between the Municipality of Koper and the Municipality of Ankaran had not been shared or shared in contravention of the law. The representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure explained that this concession was divided over and over again on the basis of a regulation on the management of the port of Cyprus, the performance of port activities, the granting of a concession for the management, management, development and regular maintenance of port infrastructure in that port. So based on these documents, not the law. The representative of the Slovenian Insurance Association pointed out that they opposed the deletion of Article 33a of the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport and the concept whereby boat owners are allowed to conclude insurance only for the duration of the season. They point out at the Insurance Association that the supervisory authority cannot exercise consistent control over all vessels authorised, since they believe that the control of compliance with the rules can only be exercised when vessels are registered and not in the context of traffic control. In a short discussion, a dilemma was raised as to the legal relevance of the existing division of concessions. In this regard, the Minister of Infrastructure explained that under the current regulation, the concession fee belonging to local communities is currently divided in a manner of 50: 50. According to the competent ministry, such division is disproportionate and is the result of the division of one congregation into two congregations. As a result, the Ministry has already begun discussions with both municipalities in the past on a more appropriate division of this part of the concession fee. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u6	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and colleagues! The maritime code is an important part of the legislation, as it deals with a number of issues that have an extremely important political, economic, ecological and defence dimension. The law was adopted in 2001 and was subsequently amended and coordinated several times with a number of international conventions and agreements. The new proposal for amendments to the Maritime Code refers, for the first time, to the implementation of the tasks of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs, as the proposal introduces a general legal basis for the issue of sub-laws of the Minister. Secondly, the legal basis for the issuing of a sub-legislative act of the Government relating to the implementation of the navigation control system as provided for by the Maritime Traffic Control Regulation is complemented. Thirdly, following the example of the Environmental Protection Act, a legal basis is laid down for dividing the share of concession fee between the local communities in which the land part of the Koper port is located. The concession act shall set out the proportion of the concession fee and the criteria for the division and the purpose of the concession fee. The regulation on the management of the port of Cyprus, the exercise of port activities, the granting of a concession for the management, management, development and regular maintenance of port infrastructure in this port already governs the division of the share of the concession fee between local communities, but without a legal basis. Fourthly, in order to harmonise the description of inland navigation boats with seagoing boats, the Inland Navigation Act deletes the provisions relating to the description of sports rowboats and smaller low-power boats used in inland waters for economic purposes. In the Modern Centre Group we will support the proposed changes, as proposed by the amendment of the Maritime Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u7	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u8	Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! This time the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code are necessary in order to establish a general legal basis for the issue of sub-legislative acts by the Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs relating to the performance of the tasks of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs, to supplement the legal basis for the issue of a sub-legislative act of the Government relating to the implementation of the navigation control system and to the establishment of a legal basis for the division of concessional duty between the local communities in which the land part of the port of Cyprus is located. The concession act shall set out the shares of the concession fee and the criteria for the division and the purpose of the concession fee. The regulation on the management of the port of Cyprus, the exercise of port activities, the granting of a concession for the management, management, development and regular maintenance of port infrastructure in this port already governs the division of the share of the concession fee between local communities, but is not sufficiently legal. The law provides that the Republic of Slovenia shall also be the beneficial beneficiary of immovable property within the port in accordance with maritime acts of public interest. In order to harmonise the provisions on the registration of vessels for navigation by sea and inland waters, provisions on the entry into service of sports rowing boats and small boats with low motor propulsion shall be deleted from the Inland waters for economic purposes. It is true that the Law of the Sea also interferes with the Law on Inland Water Navigation, but since it is a matter of improvement, we do not oppose this in the Group of Members and we will support the Law on the Code of the Sea.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code is a novelty which, among other things, brings positive solutions for boat owners who will have to have a mandatory insurance made only for the time of use of the boat and nothing more for the period of validity of the licence as it is now in force. This is certainly a more cost-effective solution for boat owners, as compulsory insurance will only be available for a few months when the boat is actually in use, and it will no longer be necessary for a time when the boat is stored in a domestic garage or on land. The proposal also lays down the legal basis for the division of the concession fee between the local communities in which the land part of the Koper cargo port is located, namely the Municipality of Koper and the Municipality of Ankaran. This, of course, does not mean that so far the concession fee has been distributed illegally between them. It was divided on the basis of the Regulation on the management of the port of Cyprus, the performance of port activities, the granting of a concession for the management, management, development and regular maintenance of port infrastructure in this port, but without a legal basis. As an important novelty, I can point out another issue, namely the introduction of a certain relief in the provisions on the entry of sports rowboats, including soups, and small boats with low motor power on inland waters. Since these provisions will be aligned with the provisions of the Marine Code, this means that these vessels will no longer have to be entered in the register even if they are engaged in an economic activity. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the proposal for the amendment of the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u12	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Minister-in-Charge! At the 30th meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code. The law was adopted in March 2001 and then amended several times. The last amendment was adopted last April. Most of the amendments and additions were needed to adapt to European legislation. The Government, as a candidate of the law, proposes a legal basis for issuing sub-laws of the Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs, supplementing the legal basis for issuing a sub-law of the Government and establishing the legal basis for dividing the concession fee between the local communities in which the land part of the Koper port is located. The law will also allow easier entry of sports rowing boats, including soups, and smaller boats with low motor power on inland waters. These provisions are aligned with the provisions of the Code of the Marine Code, which means that those vessels will no longer have to be entered in the register even if they are engaged in an economic activity. In the New Slovenia Group, we rightly ask why it is only in this amendment that we regulate the allocation and division of concession fees between local communities. The allocation of funds already takes place on the basis of the Regulation on the management of the port of Cyprus, the performance of port activities, the granting of a concession for the management, management, development and regular maintenance of port infrastructure in that port. On the Committee, the Minister explained that the funds are shared under a regulation which does not have a legal basis, so in New Slovenia we wonder how we can have a regulation in force if it does not have a legal basis. Despite some of these concerns, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u13	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! With the proposed amendment of the law, the Law of the Sea adds a legal basis for dividing the share of the concession fee between the local communities in which the land part of the port of Cyprus is located. The regulation on the management of the port of Cyprus, the exercise of port activities, the granting of a concession for the management, management, development and regular maintenance of port infrastructure in this port already governs the division of the share of concession fee between local communities, but according to the words of the Government without legal basis. The law is therefore in line with the sub-legal acts by which the hierarchy of acts is placed on the head. We were concerned in Levica about the proposed novel of the Maritime Code. About a year ago, the National Assembly adopted another very large amendment to the same code, and there was no need for this legal basis for amending the regulation. In the following year, we saw ambitions after cutting down the port of Cyprus, introducing the port administration, opening the concession contract, wishing to privatise and finally wishing to join the ownership structure of the port of Koper. Since the proposed amendment to the law in its 9th Article also provides for the opening of concession relations, we have taken a very cautious approach to the adoption of the proposed amendment. In addition to this, at first sight a suspicious amendment to the Code of the Sea also establishes that the State is a dispossessing beneficiary on all land and infrastructure in the port of Kore, which we found to be a little unusual. According to the current Act on the regulation of premises, such a beneficiary is one way or another. In considering the proposal for a law on the parental committee, Minister Gasperšič assured us that the only effect this law will have on the concessional relations in the port of Kore, the arrangements for dividing the share of the concession fee between local communities and nothing else. The provisions on decommissioning are, in particular, necessary in order to facilitate the regulation of access to ports that are urgently needed. We will therefore not oppose the adoption of the proposed amendments and the completion of the Maritime Code in Levica. We believe that it is right that the distribution of the share of concession fee between local communities is regulated in an appropriate manner and that access to the port of Cyprus is regulated within the State Spatial Plan. However, the law still contains some controversial provisions which are not properly explained, so we will be absolved in the vote on the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Sea in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 25th agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the travel law after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Tolling Act was adopted in 2015 and provides a comprehensive legal basis for the tolling of both passenger and freight vehicles, since it is a materially rounded whole which is governed by both the tolling of passenger and freight vehicles in one legal act. In particular, the proposed amendment to the Act builds on the legal provisions for which the free movement of electronic toll systems, which is expected to be introduced as from 1 January 2018, shows that they need to be upgraded, in particular in order to ensure greater efficiency of the electronic toll system, as well as greater clarity and certainty of individual legal solutions, which will also contribute to greater legal certainty for the users of the toll network. The new legislation mainly contains amendments and additions that do not bring significant new developments to the area under consideration and therefore do not interfere significantly with the rights and obligations of the users of the law. These are mainly editorial, nomotechnic and other minor adjustments that will improve the understanding, interpretation and application of legal standards. If I briefly present these main solutions to the novelty, this is an extension of the time limit for the storage of data on the location and movement of vehicles when paying the toll with good value on the board of the unit or device from the current 20 days to 90 days from the issuance of the toll account for the previous month. This is then the establishment of a mechanism to neutralise the negative impact on the revenues of the road operator due to changes in the structure of the vehicles in each EURO emission class. Furthermore, it is a matter of providing a legal basis for a more permanent shift from non-road to to non-road road without the obligation to use a vignette, then there is a structure of criminal provisions that has been amended in the way that infringements are divided by individual toll systems, such as the vignette system, the toll stop system and the electronic toll system, and the abolition of the fixing of fines within a range since in practice only the lowest prescribed fines have been imposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u17	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that again. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 30th meeting, on 28. 6. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tolling Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly has taken a decision on this law to deal with the bill following a reduced procedure. In the supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Gasperšič, stressed that the proposal for a law contained some editorial, nomatechnic and other amendments aimed at increasing the clarity and determination of certain legal provisions that would contribute to greater user safety. As an important objective of the proposal of the law, the addition necessary for the effective introduction of electronic tolling in the free movement of goods vehicles, whose introduction is foreseen as of 1 January 2018, was also exposed. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made some comments. The majority of the comments she made were withdrawn by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and additional explanations and explanations were also provided by the applicant. The President of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development explained that the Commission supports that it does not bring about significant substantive changes to the toll system and is in line with both Dars and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Information Commissioners. He said that some of the issues raised in the debate were raised by the Ministry's representatives. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Mr Robert Sever, also pointed out that the Chamber of Commerce had been actively involved in the coordination process of the bill and had agreed on the main point of view, namely the reduction of fines for disproportionate offences in the sanctioning of tolling offences, which was a result of which he praised the work of the working group at the Ministry. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 12, 14, 23 and 24, and did not adopt one amendment of the Joint Left to Article 23, and the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 17. Finally, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill together and also adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u19	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u20	Your Honor! In particular, the Tolling Act aims to ensure greater efficiency of the toll system, which will be particularly important by the introduction of an electronic toll system in free circulation, when vehicles over 3 thousand 500 kilograms of the maximum permissible toll weight will no longer stop at toll stations. The Tolling Act, which was adopted in 2015, provided a legal basis for tolling of freight and passenger vehicles, since it is a materially rounded whole which is governed by both the electronic tolling system and the vignette tolling system in one legal act. The new proposal contains mainly editorial, nomotechnic and other adaptations or amendments and additions that will improve the understanding, interpretation and application of legal standards relating mainly to electronic tolling in the free movement of goods vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of not more than 3 thousand 500 kilograms starting on 1 January 2018. Dars is already carrying out activities to establish an electronic toll system which identified the need to adapt individual legal provisions in order to ensure the effectiveness of its operation, as well as greater clarity and certainty, which will also help to improve the legal certainty of users. The amount of fines for vignette tolls is not changing, but for tolling at distances transported is proposed a separate regime of tolling fines by stopping and in free traffic. In doing so, it is proposed to reduce fines for legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and individuals and legal persons responsible and, at the same time, to slightly increase the fines for drivers, taking into account the possibility of paying half the amount within 8 days. We are not in favour of any increase in any fines in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. It is true, however, that in Slovenia there is more than 80% of foreign transit freight traffic. We will not oppose the proposed tolling law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! We have before us a second review of the novel of the Tolling Act, which corrects certain shortcomings of the current law adopted in 2015. One of the areas where circumstances have changed and the need to adapt the legal provisions has been demonstrated is electronic free movement tolling, which will enter into force on 1 January next year. This is a new toll system for trucks exceeding a maximum permissible mass of 3 000 500 kilograms, and means that such toll vehicles will no longer stop at toll stations due to the payment of the toll. Slovenia will be the first country in the European space to move from the existing toll collection system from the prison to the free traffic flow. In Slovenia, with the existing system of tolling with prisoners, on average, the carriers account for a little more than half a million euro of tolls per day for freight vehicles, even though many truck drivers still avoid toll payments by toll transporting toll stations, thus also exacerbating traffic conditions on local roads. Effective control is therefore essential in the introduction of the new system. All users will have to have an OBU on-line at the time of entry into the motorway network in the vehicle. Those users who enter the country directly on the highway will be able to obtain the device at the first toll point. In the Desus Group, we hope that the new toll system will improve traffic conditions and avoid toll payments and unnecessary loading of local roads. In the new system, the payment will be linked to the distance transported, so Dars believes that there should be no financial motive for the traffic of the front stations. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the amendment. We are pleased that the novel is in line with Dars, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Information Commissioner, which is not very often the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tolling Act, which is before us, does not bring about significant substantive changes to the toll system in Slovenia. In particular, the amendments introduce editorial and nomological changes and additions that will improve the understanding, interpretation and application of legal standards relating to electronic tolling in free transport, traffic flows and are expected to be introduced for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3 thousand 500 kilograms as of 1 January 2018. The law before us is coordinated with both Dars and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Information Officer. The law also supports the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. On this occasion, the Social Democrats would like to draw particular attention to the fact that we received a presentation of the European Commission's mobility package presented to us by Slovenian Commissioner Violeta Bulc a few days ago, in which she announced the possibility of lifting the wines. To this proposal, which is still a long way from time to time, we are quite reserved for the social democrats, because we do not want this possible change in the toll system to hit the weakest in the pocket. We will therefore continue to closely monitor and give appropriate warning in the future in this area. We social democrats are working towards a sustainable road financing system and a continuation of the highway programme, which will only be possible with a sustainable and regulated tolling system. In view of all of the above, the Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u25	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u26	Your Honor! On 28 June, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act. The Tolling Act was adopted in 2015 and now provides the legal basis for the tolling of passenger and freight vehicles and regulates both the electronic tolling system and the vignette tolling system. This novelty regulates only the legal basis for the introduction of certain new organisational, functional and technical methods necessary to ensure an effective toll system in Slovenia in connection with toll systems in the European Union, including the definition of control powers in the implementation of this and other rules on tolling. The fact is that Slovenia is one of the more burdened transit countries in the European Union, as freight transport represents already more than 80% of the total transport. The current toll system allows drivers to avoid toll payments on a total of 434 miles [617 km] of highway. Once the toll is electronic, that won't be possible anymore, they claim on Dars. If you are driving along our highways, you have most likely noticed that almost all the electronic tolling portals for freight vehicles of the total 126 are already installed and ready, which is a positive signal for all those involved in traffic on our motorways. An effective toll system will be particularly important for the introduction of an electronic tolling system in free circulation, which Slovenia is expected to introduce from 1. 1. 2018 for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3 thousand 500 kilograms. Although the law is harmonised, as has been said today, with Dars, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry and all stakeholders, we remain in New Slovenia and will continue to monitor how to tolling will take place, and what costs will it cost not to hit the pockets of those who are actually the weakest. Since the proposal for the amendment of the Tolling Law regulates and improves matters, we will support the bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u27	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The proposed amendment of the Act will amend the Tolling Act by allowing electronic tolling of goods vehicles in free circulation. These are changes necessary to ensure the interoperability of the toll system in Slovenia with other toll systems in the European Union. In short, the European Union is asking us to introduce this so that someone with this new system can make a good profit and therefore wants to give the impression that, at present, international transport on freight vehicles is not possible due to the non-interoperability of the system within the EU. An innovative solution is only an innovative way for a seller or developer of these systems to earn well. The law also strongly changes the individual criminal provisions. In explanation, we can read that greater clarity and greater certainty of individual criminal provisions will contribute to greater legal certainty for users. They will also contribute to greater financial security for legal persons, readers of capitalists, and less financial and social security for individuals, read workers or truck drivers. The law amends Articles 49 and 50 in such a way that the penalty for individual offences is no longer variable but fixed. It is true that the nature of the offences itself is changing, which is logical because of the change in the system, and changes in the level of penalties for legal persons will be made in the eyes compared to changes in the penalties for individuals. The law reduces penalties for legal persons to or even below the current variable minimum, while it imposes penalties on individuals at or below the current maximum. The law does not state in any single sentence the reasons why this is necessary. Let me give you some specific examples. Article 49 provides for penalties for tolling offences for a variable amount of EUR 2 000 to 4 000. With the amendment of the law, the penalty for legal persons is fixed to EUR 2 000. The same current Article lays down the same penalties for individuals ranging from EUR 300 to EUR 800. With the amendment of the law, the penalty for legal persons is fixed to EUR 800. The existing 50th Article lays down other types of penalties relating to to tolling for legal persons in a variable range of between EUR 2000 and EUR 5 000. With the amendment of the law, the penalty for legal persons is fixed to EUR 2 000, which is less than currently in force. The same current article lays down the same penalties for individuals of 500 to thousands of euros. With the amendment of the law, the penalty for legal persons is fixed to EUR 800. The scope of the penalty is also lower for espaes and responsible persons in companies. The maximum remains solely and solely for individuals. In Levi, we find such a reduction of punishment extremely inappropriate. If penalties are halved for legal persons, they should also be for individuals, not for individuals to be allowed a lower sentence. We have proposed an amendment in Levica to maintain a variable range of penalties in the same way as has now been established. But the amendment was rejected without discussion. For all of this, we will vote against the proposed law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u29	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić. Excuse me, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc. Mr. Rance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u30	Nice greeting, president, minister! I'd almost become a master, but a little bit of a joke. Respected, the Tolling Act, which was adopted in 2015, provided the legal basis for the tolling of passenger and freight vehicles. Thus, the law gives a materially rounded whole which regulates both the electronic system and the vignette tolling system. The new bill we are considering contains, in particular, provisions that will improve the understanding, interpretation and application of existing legal standards. The solutions to the bill are therefore aimed primarily at ensuring greater efficiency of the toll system, which is particularly important in view of electronic tolling in the free movement of traffic, which is expected to be introduced on 1 January 2018 for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes. This means that these heavy goods vehicles will no longer stop at toll stations after this scheduled date due to toll payment. The current Tolling Act is considered to have arranged, in one place, tolling of vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes of the maximum permissible mass for which toll is paid according to a certain time of use of the toll road, and tolling of vehicles over 3.5 tonnes of the maximum weight permit for which toll is paid according to the toll distance transported on the toll road. The new proposal of the law, however, mainly contains editorial, nomotechnic adjustments necessary for heavy goods vehicles to be provided with more efficient solutions. The bill also includes other solutions that have proved appropriate during implementation. The period of storage of data on locations, movement of toll vehicles with good capacity on the OBU shall be extended to 90 days from the issuance of the toll account for the previous month. It establishes a mechanism to eliminate the negative impact of the changes in the structure of the vehicles in each EURO emission class on the revenues of the toll-road operator, returning the OBD equipment not only to the toll point, but also to other ways set out in the general act of the toll-road operator, for example by post. It shall assign extraditions to the view of the tachograph or the record of the tachograph in the event of a suspected offence involving the non-payment of the toll. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the solutions presented by the proposed amendment to the Tolling Act are aimed at ensuring greater efficiency of the toll system, which will be particularly important by the introduction of an electronic toll system in free traffic for heavy goods vehicles. However, greater clarity and certainty of individual legal provisions will contribute to greater legal certainty for users. For all the reasons listed above, this law will also be supported by the modern centre Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u31	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 25th agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that's to say the bill on amendments to the law on railway safety after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time we've heard a nice greeting. You have yet to see a proposal for amendments to the Railway Safety Act. The proposed amendments shall include the extension of the maximum continuous driving of the towing vehicle and of the motor vehicle for special purposes in one amendment, with a maximum of 4 hours up to a maximum of 5 hours. This is equivalent to the current regime under which trains are driven under the law on measures to remedy the effects of the 2014 acorn. In order to amend the Article governing the maximum continuous driving of a towed vehicle and motor vehicle from 4 to 5 hours, it is also necessary to harmonise the law in criminal provisions in Article 106. The current break arrangements with a minimum 30-minute use of the break in one part make it impossible to rationally regulate the use of the break, the proposal of the law means an adjustment by aligning the legislative provisions on breaks with the Labour Relations Act. A reference to a collective agreement has also been omitted because of the view that this can be regulated under the system law itself. Adoption of the law is a prerequisite for more flexible treatment of the use of a break that allows the renewal or maintenance of workers' psychophysical abilities during working hours. It is also proposed to delete Article 91, which provides for the exceptional termination of the employment contract. In the future, the provisions of the system law governing working relations, namely the Labour Relations Act, will apply. With a view to the adoption of the law within one month of its entry into force, it is necessary to amend the Regulation on the criteria for working in the exchange of enforcement workers, which is why I propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the law with the proposed content. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u33	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall meet on 30th meeting. 6. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Rail Safety submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. For this law, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined following a reduced procedure. In the supplementary explanation, the Minister of Infrastructure, on behalf of the applicant, highlighted the main solutions contained in the proposal for a law. He pointed out that the proposed amendment to Article 84 would extend the maximum continuous duration of driving a towed vehicle and a motor vehicle for special purposes in one change from a maximum of 4 to 5 hours. That duration is now only valid for the period of removal of the effects of the acorn in accordance with the Act on measures to remedy the effects of the acorn between 30 January and 10 February 2014, which is being concluded. In addition, provisions governing the duration of the break during working hours are being introduced after a new one. So far, the law provided for this to be regulated in accordance with the collective agreement and, following a new provision, that the provisions concerning the continuous duration of the break during working hours should be regulated in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the proposal for a law was consistent with the legal system and had no comments on it from a legislative point of view. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Mr Verbic, pointed out that the Commission supports the draft law because it does not in any way reduce the rights of executive railway workers, and the Commission believes that the proposed changes will help to more rationalise the organisation of work on Slovenian railways and consequently reduce the delays in rail transport that we have witnessed in the past and which have caused passengers to experience the consequences. Mr Prnaver, representative of the Railway Transport Union of Slovenia, pointed out that a break is necessary for the worker to restore his psychophysical abilities, which is related to the safety and order of rail transport. He pointed out that until now the law had provided for at least a 30-minute break in one part for a valid reason, so that this amendment to Article 85 should not be overlooked. With regard to the amendment to Article 85, which provides for a break, the representative of the Slovenian Railways stressed that Slovenske Slovenske železnica is most likely the only one who has a prescribed break in the four documents, in addition to the Labour Relations Act, this is regulated by the Regulation governing the work of executive railway workers, the Railway Safety Act and the collective event. After the adoption of this law, the Labour Relations Act and the collective agreement, which is the last safeguard, will continue to apply so that workers in the workplaces of enforcement workers will not be violated by the right to take a break. In the debate of Members and Members, the question of amending Article 85 was raised that railway workers should be excluded from the right to a 30-minute continuous break, which was explained by the applicant that this is not the case and that the proposal of the law continues to provide for a 30-minute break in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. With regard to the view that certain professions, given the nature of their work, make sense of flexibility in the exercise of the rights to rest, which could be regulated by sub-laws or other acts, and thus do not reduce the right provided for in the Labour Relations Act, it was clarified that the purpose of such specifics in the present law is not to be regulated, but to refer to the Labour Relations Act. However, for specific cases, these matters are regulated either in collective agreements or in other legal acts in a way that is only for the benefit of workers and employees. The hope was also expressed that there would be an agreement on this issue between the union that has a specific working situation and the management of the company. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes that the draft law be adopted in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u35	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The amendment of the Railway Safety Act involves minor changes extending the maximum continuous duration of the train in one shift from a maximum of 4 to 5 hours. The new provisions of the law introduce an amendment which provides that enforcement railway workers are also fully subject to the general arrangement of the right to rest, as defined in the Labour Relations Act. This will facilitate the rational use of the vacation of enforcement workers. Amendments do not mean that enforcement workers should no longer be allowed to take a break, but merely that the leave provisions contained in the Labour Relations Act are deleted from the applicable law in order to prevent duplication. As we were informed by the Director of Slovenske železnica - Infrastructure on the home working body, four documents stipulate the use of the break on the Slovenian railways. In addition to the two laws, this is regulated by the regulation and the collective agreement, which, as a last resort, ensured that employees are not violated. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the amendment of the Railway Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u37	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u38	Your Honor! On a proposal from the Government, we have already discussed the proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act for the second time at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. The Government has proposed to extend the maximum continuous driving time of the towed vehicle and the motor vehicle for special purposes in one shift from a maximum of 4 to 5 hours. The proposed solution proved to be good at the time of the acorns. In addition to this amendment, the Government has proposed that the executive railway worker be entitled to a break in accordance with the law governing working relations. There is an increasing number of traffic on the railways, and as a result, executives are increasingly burdened. For the time being, the applicable legislation gives enforcement railway workers the right to take a break during work as set out in Article 85. It is stated: “The employer may determine a break during working time only on a one-time basis, except in cases where, due to the technological process of work or the duration of the change, a break must be fixed in two parts, with one part not to be less than 30 minutes.” This article is deleted by the amendment of the law because it is intended to be regulated by Article 154 of the ZDR, which states that a full-time worker is entitled to a 30-minute rest period. On the Committee, the representative of the Railway Transport Union of Slovenia pointed out that the right to rest on Slovenian railways has been adequately regulated and certain problems arise in specific locations, particularly in the subsidiary of Slovenian Railway - Infrastructure, in particular in the service of traffic management in the workplaces of the transporter, track transporter and dispatcher. In one 12-hour working shift, transport of the busiest station by 100 trains or more, while employees also perform many other works. In these workplaces, it often happens that the worker does not have the opportunity to take a break during work. The union has proposed a solution to the employer, but the agreement has not yet been reached. The Minister stated on the Committee that he would also be involved in negotiations between the union and the employer. The Trade Union has sent a proposal for a solution to the Minister, as has already been said, so far this agreement has not been reached. Rail safety is very important, so let us ensure that workers and all users are allowed such conditions of work so that their safety and user safety are not compromised. We will not oppose the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u39	The text is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, Mrs Violeta Tomić for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for saying so. When the proposed law was first introduced and dealt with by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, State Secretary Potisek began by saying: “Slovenian Railways have forwarded amendments to the Railway Safety Act.” By doing so, he revealed the true author of this anti-work law and showed the lakay service of this government to employers in violating labour rights. Attention, not in private, but in the state-owned state-owned novelty, the law abolishes the acquired rights of workers in rail transport through union combat. Rights granted by previous governments to these workers due to the specificity of work and to the provision of general safety in rail transport. How do you think you will ensure safety if you reduce rest and increase the burden of workers? It is absurd that this law is called railway safety. The reason why railway workers are entitled to a 30-minute continuous break is that several passengers decided to exercise this right in January this year after years and years of denial. The nature of their work does not allow them to leave their jobs for a long time. For years and years, they carried the baby to work, had lunch in the workplace, had a half - hour rest that other workers could afford at lunch without. Therefore, they received a certain compensation in the form of some compensation, but the payment of this compensation was unlawful. He was replaced last year with some kind of wage stimulation. The new arrangement did not satisfy railway undertakings. They decided to enforce what was legally theirs. In a single day, in just 30 minutes, a few ten workers went to lunch. The result of this one-off exercise of workers' rights is now this law, which abolishes these rights. There would be no need for further stimulation if the Slovenian Railways, which created as much as €23 million of net profit last year, hired additional people. From 2009 to this year, the number of employees in the Slovenian Railways decreased by about 20%. The redundancies are also announced this year, while workers are entitled to an uninterrupted 30-minute meal. The law shall also extend the continuous driving time of the towed vehicle and the motor vehicle for special purposes in one change from a maximum of 4 to 5 hours. Such arrangements are also in force now, thanks to the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Greed, but the validity is soon to expire. This law therefore transforms the crisis measure into a systemic emergency procedure and without justification. On the one hand, the right to a half-hour continuous rest shall be taken and, on the other hand, the workload in the workplace shall be increased. Finally, it should be noted that the law, which was originally imposed by emergency and is now being dealt with by a reduced procedure, also reveals the unjustified and deliberate misuse of the possibility of investing in law under an emergency procedure by the Government. The urgency procedure was based on irreparable consequences for the functioning of the State and with multi-million-dollar losses for Slovenian railways in the event that its adoption did not take place. None of this has come true, and none of this is true. We will vote in Levica against the proposed law. It is not possible to interfere with the rights of workers simply because they are trying to exercise these rights. And worse still, it is unacceptable to interfere with the labour rights ordered by employers, as is the case with this law. Moreover, it is unacceptable that this is happening in a state-owned company which should be an example of protecting and improving the rights of workers and workers, including their working conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u41	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u42	Dear President, Government Representative, colleague, colleague! We accept the amendment to the Railway Safety Act, which contains some urgent changes with a view to optimising the implementation of rail transport processes, and introduces an alignment of the situation of executive workers with other workers subject to the Labour Relations Act. The main solution to the proposal concerns the extension of the maximum continuous driving time of the towed vehicle and the motor vehicle for special purposes, with a maximum change of 4 to 5 hours. The proposed solution is intended to be introduced as the analysis so far has shown that this amendment has no negative impact on rail safety and makes it possible to carry out individual work processes more rationally. In this regard, it is important that the measure in practice is already verified, since the continuous duration of driving a towing vehicle and a motor vehicle for special purposes is now 5 hours, but this is a special measure which has been introduced only for the time of removal of the consequences of the acorn in accordance with the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Aberrations between 30 January and 10 February 2014, which ends. In view of the improved efficiency of working time, the reduction of necessary stops and the resulting delay of trains, it is estimated that the impact of the proposed change at the annual level would be around €1.5 million. The bill provides that the executive railway worker shall have the right to rest in accordance with the law governing the employment relationship and the collective agreement. In this way, the amendment allows enforcement railway workers to be compared to other workers subject to the Labour Relations Act. The specific regulation of the issue of the Railway Safety Act, as has been regulated so far, is not necessary for the sake of safety or for the specific nature of rail transport activities. The novelty introduces some other amendments, which also relate to the alignment of the situation of enforcement railway workers with other workers, which relates in particular to the work arrangements for the emergency termination of the employment contract and the type of disciplinary measures resulting from the breach of the obligations under the employment relationship relating to safe rail transport. In the Parliamentary Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u43	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Again, we have a proposal for a law amending the Law on Rail Safety, this time following a reduced procedure. The proposed amendment to Article 84 shall extend the maximum continuous driving time of the towed vehicle and the motor vehicle for special purposes in one change from a maximum of 4 to 5 hours. That duration is now only valid for the period of removal of the effects of the acorn in accordance with the Act on measures to remedy the effects of the acorn between 30 January and 10 February 2014, which is concluded, which will lead to the reinstatement of the 4 hour limit. In view of the better use of working time, the reduction of necessary stops and the resulting delay of trains, the applicants estimate that the impact of the proposed change at the annual level would be around €1.5 million. The proposed amendment to Article 2 of the Law provides that the executive railway worker shall have the right to a break in accordance with the law governing the employment relationship and the collective agreement. In doing so, executive railway workers will be compared to other workers subject to the Labour Relations Act, which regulates the right to a break during working hours in Article 154. By deleting Article 91, which governs the exceptional termination of the employment contract and the type of disciplinary measures for infringements of the employment obligation in relation to safe rail transport, the situation of enforcement workers will be equal to those of other workers subject to the Labour Relations Act. In its explanation, the applicant notes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law be considered in a reduced procedure to prevent the effects on the functioning of the State, since the current regulation of the driving time of a towing vehicle and motor vehicles for special purposes for one change, 84th Article, and the break during working hours governed by Article 85 make it difficult to organise the work optimally and rationally and cause unnecessary costs to the operator and the carrier. The current break arrangements with a minimum of 30 minutes of use of the break in one part make it impossible to rationally regulate the use of the break, which would take into account the specific nature of the work of the executive railway workers in individual jobs, we are talking about the transporters and the routes, and, of course, the use adapts to the processes of work, which in the event of a consistent implementation of that decision leads to delays in rail traffic. Thus, only on 3 January 2017, when 30 % of workers in those jobs consistently took advantage of their leave in a prescribed manner, a total of EUR 12 000 344 was delayed. The cost per month is thus around 370,000 euros. It is also clear from the above information on delays that the implementation of the mandatory public transport service for passengers would be hampered by such use of the break, reducing the quality of services and reducing the potential number of passengers. In addition to the financial implications mentioned above, in the case of the current method of exploitation of the right to rest or snack, there could be temporary suspensions of rail transport, which has already occurred in practice and which means certain economic consequences, but also has long-term effects on the entire supply chain, which can consequently lead to a reduction in the economic interest of both Luke Koper and the Slovenian Railways and thus the entire Slovenian transport chain and all the logistics companies involved. For all the reasons mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we do not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u45	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 25th agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Banking Act in the framework of an end-of-the-day procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Gorazd Renčel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act shall complement Article 126 of the Act, which provides for exceptions to the protection of confidential bank data. While this article already provides that the bank may disclose confidential information in other cases where the law expressly provides for the bank's obligation to provide confidential information about the individual party, in practice there are different interpretations of this article and related indivisible case law. The latter was highlighted in particular by the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which notes potential abuses in the Slovenian banking system because it has encountered difficulties in obtaining confidential bank data, which, of course, makes it impossible for the efficiency and smoothness of its work. Although, in our view, the current text of Article 126 of the Banking Act allows access to confidential banking data also to the parliamentary investigative commission, with a view to ensuring full clarity, we propose that, in addition to protecting the duties of confidential banking data, the case of a written request by the Commission of Inquiry should also be explicitly added where, in accordance with the law governing the parliamentary investigation, an investigation is carried out. For the government supports the efforts of the parliamentary investigative commission and we are convinced that, when the recipients of confidential bank data are explicitly referred to by the parliamentary investigative commission, we will contribute to the elimination of various judicial practices. In addition to the parliamentary commission of inquiry, the proposed addition of Article 126 of the Banking Act to entities which, under certain conditions, can access confidential bank data shall also be classified as the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter is governed by the law governing the Court of Auditors responsible for auditing, the operation of users of public funds, including banks in which the State and the local community have a majority share. The proposed addition also removes the uncertainty as to the eligibility of access to confidential bank data by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which is known or needed in the context of the review of the operations of banks. The bill also addresses editorial errors in Articles 7 and 69 of the Banking Act. In the first paragraph of Article 7, the indication of parents and adoptive parents as immediate family members was mistakenly omitted. However, in the second paragraph of Article 69, the reference to a qualified authorisation shall be corrected and the term qualified proportion shall be used instead correctly. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u47	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I will present a report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, which was held at its 40th session. 6. 2017 as a parent working body treated by the Committee. A draft law was submitted to the National Assembly following a reduced procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 96th meeting, on 19. 5. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, and the review of amendments tabled by the SDS Group and the SMC, Desus and SD Group of Members, in accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the way to Article 3 of the bill. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Court of Auditors, the Legal and Legislative Service and the representative of the Council of State took part in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the draft law, said that more specifically it regulates the acquisition of confidential bank data required by the parliamentary investigative commission in her work, and revises the law in two articles. She also said that the Government supported the amendment of the coalition to Article 3, which also regulates access to data for the Court of Auditors. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service had no comments on the proposal for a law. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the bill. Support for the bill was expressed in the debate and the issue of transparency and the question of who could all have access to bank data, which are classified as bank secrecy, in order to avoid misuse of information. It was said that the bill lays the appropriate legal basis for access to data as well as adequate legal protection. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and did not adopt the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the SDS Group of Ambassadors, and also considered the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3 which it adopted after discussion. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u49	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! We will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, in particular since it has been supplemented by the relevant solutions, which allow not only the Commission set up in the State Chamber to investigate the bank hole, access to all data, but also to the Court of Auditors, which is also the supreme expert auditor, who can also be very helpful to Members and Members of Parliament, not only to the Commission of Inquiry, but in fact to all Members and Members of the Court of Auditors, because the National Assembly has jurisdiction over the Bank of Slovenia. And when we talk about really having to get to the bottom of this issue, of course, access to data is essential. Without this, we cannot exercise our responsibilities towards the people of Members and Members. It is right to try to identify all the causes and procedures that have led to the assessment of the bank hole, as the consequences have been detected in the functioning of the whole country and have also been detected in the lives of people, as many have been squeezed into the situation that their salaries have been reduced or their pensions have been reduced or have also reduced access to social assistance, in short to all those measures that have somehow mitigated the consequences for the most vulnerable groups in Slovenia due to the deterioration of economic and financial conditions. Here we would particularly point out that it is precisely because of the consequences on the lives and quality of people, which means that they are also interfering with their dignity, that banking secrecy cannot be above all other rights, especially human rights to dignity. We are confident that this legislative change and clearer criteria regarding access to bank data will make the work of the Commission and the Court of Auditors significantly more effective and that we will also be able to address any irregularities that have been adopted in this process and have had very serious consequences for people. That is why we will support this law, and we hope that, within both the Commission and the Court of Auditors, we will come to all the necessary conclusions in due time in this mandate also because of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u51	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Similar solutions, as proposed by the Government by the amendment of the Banking Act this time, have been proposed several times by colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That is why we are surprised that the government coalition did not back up these proposals at the time, despite being able to complement them with its amendments. A few weeks from now, we have a proposal on the table with an almost identical solution. Obviously, the government coalition is playing a game of political prestige, which we Christian Democrats regret, because in political space we sincerely want more constructive search for good or best solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the coalition rejects opposition bill proposals every time, it will not be possible to modernise Slovenia until then. In Slovenia, only parliamentary investigative commissions seem to deal with banking crime. With five billion large bank holes, which have consumed more than half of the annual budget to the Republic of Slovenia, only two people have been convicted of banking crime, and these two persons are currently only ineligible. It is precisely because of the financial dimension, the great complexity and the inefficiency of the judicial system in dealing with bank criminals that we have proposed in Novi Slovenija, in accordance with a unanimous decision of the National Assembly, a law establishing special prosecutorial and judicial departments specialising in the treatment of banking crime. Members also today have the opportunity to introduce, with the support of the amendment of the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, a higher level of specific focus, improved flow of specific knowledge and a clear responsibility to face one of the most demanding forms of crime. We Christian Democrats are convinced that this is what Slovenian citizens expect from us. Given that the government coalition, by amending the Banking Act, proposes the same solutions as the opposition had already proposed in the past, it would not be surprising in Novi Slovenija that in the future the Government would send a new Law on Courts, which would set up special judicial departments to deal with banking crime. And in New Slovenia, we would be happy to support this if our proposal is not supported today, which is unlikely. On this occasion, once again, to normalise the banking situation, in addition to the measures proposed in New Slovenia, it is crucial to make a real breakthrough through the implementation of state banking. In Nova Slovenija, we note that government mixing by delaying the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank and seeking ever-new excuses for not selling the bank is completely unacceptable and is to the great detriment of our citizens, our taxpayers. Since we want to improve the working conditions of parliamentary investigative commissions, we will support the amendment of the Banking Act in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u53	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The proposed law contains two solutions that we will support in Levica. Firstly, it expressly states that the parliamentary commission of inquiry may obtain data bearing the bank secrecy mark and, secondly, expressly provides that data bearing the bank secrecy mark may also be obtained by the Court of Auditors. We absolutely support these two solutions. As far as investigative commissions are concerned, I can only say that the Commissions on paper already have access to the data, but it is true that some courts have taken this into account and others have not, and it is therefore right to accept this technical supplement. As we speak of the powers of the Court of Auditors, I must point out that the coalition still does not or does not hope to adopt a law that would allow the Court of Auditors to also investigate the rehabilitation of banks in 2013 and 2014. This is a new law on Banka Slovenije, which was tabled by the Government on 21 April this year, and has already been withdrawn by the coalition from the Committee on Finance twice. There is no secret that the adoption of this law is being blocked by the European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia, i.e. those people who were directly involved in the rehabilitation of banks. Today we know that the results of the stress tests were mildly unbelievably credible, and the banks were not even in front of the bankruptcy, as Governor Jazbec still claims. This is not only confirmed by many economists, and has been proved by practice. Banka Slovenije arranged recapitalisation for Gorenje Banka in December 2013 but it has not done so, but has improved its business in the coming years and is doing business today without problems. This took so long as Banka Slovenije did not stop demanding that the bank recapitalise itself because its request was rejected by practice. However, it ordered that the bank should be sold, and it appears to be purchased by Serbian tycoon Miodrag Kostic. Although the coalition will make a minor amendment to the Banking Act through the procedure, it is a drop into the sea against what it has not done. It did not allow the Court of Auditors to investigate Banka Slovenije, did not allow an independent investigation into bank recovery, which it also promised in the coalition contract, did not prevent the sale of NKBM and the Government also rejected the initiative of the Left to suspend the privatisation of the Bank at the same time as the privatisation of NLB. And not only did the government not carry out a bank recovery investigation, the government is actually protecting people who were directly involved in the rehabilitation and can obstruct its investigation, led by current Finance Minister Matthew Vraničar Erman. According to the line, although Slovenia has not received a euro of financial assistance from the European Union, the current government is running the policy as if it were under the control of the troika. We will support the proposal before us to adopt the other laws that I have mentioned, namely the adoption of a law that would allow the investigation of bank rehabilitation, the application of a coalition agreement to introduce an independent investigation into the banking system, and we will warn. The fact that these laws are not adopted because of some subjugation to foreign power centres or to the domestic Bank of Slovenia, we cannot land in Levica and we will never land.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u55	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u56	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a proposal to amend legislation that falls within the scope of financial crime, which we deal with almost every day from such or different perspectives. It solves the issue of access to confidential bank data, which have been labelled bank secrecy. The most problems have been the parliamentary investigative commission investigating the bank hole, how to access these data, obstacles in different courts and obstacles by other institutions. The opposition has therefore repeatedly proposed amendments to the laws concerning the Bank of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors and access to these data, but this has not been adopted so far. The Commission of Inquiry has succeeded in obtaining this data despite the obstacles, and these data are now here. Why do we have this proposal here today? Because we have acquired data, here, the proposal may only be a little faster next time allowing access to data, so that those who have hindered such acts have realized that there are no obstacles. Second, we find that some data have been destroyed at this time, and this is irreparable. Now the law is here, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members we support, but it no longer has the effect it would have had if it had been adopted at the beginning of the mandate. And I am sorry that you have not confirmed the opposition's proposals so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u57	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Secretary of State with a co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament, a nice welcome! In the SMC Group, we supported the proposal for amendments to the Banking Act by supplementing the third paragraph of Article 126 of ZBan-2, which will explicitly stipulate that under certain conditions confidential banking data may also be accessed by the parliamentary commission of inquiry. This will address the uncertainty of the interpretation of this Article. The third paragraph of Article 126 of ZBan-2 already provides, in point 6, that the obligation of the bank to protect confidential information does not apply in other cases because the law expressly provides for the obligation of the bank to provide such confidential information to the individual party, but the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which is the legal basis for the functioning of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, does not explicitly lay down that obligation of the bank. With the proposed addition to Article 126, the clarification of its interpretation shall be rectified. The Parliamentary Investigative Commission will be able to access the confidential bank data available to the bank, with the possibility of access not being absolute, but will continue to be limited by the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. The investigative powers and powers of the parliamentary commission of inquiry are limited to the constitutionally defined position and powers of the National Assembly and to the mandate of the commission of inquiry, as set out in the act determining the parliamentary commission of inquiry. It should be said that in the legislative process we added that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is also included among the entities which can access confidential bank data under certain conditions. The latter is the law governing the Court of Auditors which is responsible for auditing the operations of users of public funds, including a bank in which the State and the local community have a majority share. The proposed addition thus removes the uncertainty as to the eligibility of access to confidential banking data by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which is known or needed in the context of the review of the operations of banks. Although Article 126 of the Banking Act already provides that the bank's obligation to protect confidential data does not apply where the law expressly provides for the bank's obligation to provide such confidential information to a party. However, as in the case of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, the law governing the Court of Auditors does not explicitly lay down the duties of the bank. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u59	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u60	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Colleagues, Colleagues! We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Banking Act. Initially, the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed a similar amendment to the law three times in this mandate and has already proposed, at least once in the previous term, a similar amendment to the law, the key for the second time that Slovenia has rehabilitated the banking system at the expense of taxpayers, i.e. the only country from the transition countries of Europe. It should be stressed that such a change should be adopted substantially earlier, as we all know that the commission of inquiry dealing with abuses in the banking system in Slovenia has a great deal of difficulty in obtaining documentation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we said in the introduction, we have already proposed at least three amendments to the law, but it has always been rejected by the coalition. On the one hand, we welcome this decision, in some way, that the Government has finally decided to make this change and supplement to facilitate the work of the Commission of Inquiry, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe that a broader definition of who can have this documentation would be needed. That is why we have also tabled an amendment into the procedure itself, which, in addition to the commission of inquiry, allows access to documents also to the National Assembly and to all the working bodies of the National Assembly. We believe that it is necessary for Members and Members to be able to familiarise themselves with all the data on banks, because the red thread we are following in the Slovenian Democratic Party is particularly important that, in the event that the bank has been saved with the tax money, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia know why this money has been spent and, above all, that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia come to the point of responsibility for the hole. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposed law, we are convinced that the step is right. We regret that the Government has done so, at least in our opinion, three years too late, because it should have done so at the beginning of the mandate. Once again, the Commission of Inquiry has had a huge problem in obtaining data, and we all know that the time component here is a very important factor in detecting abuse and crime. So we missed about 3 years at the expense of the Government of Mir Cerar and this coalition, because at the beginning of this mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed changes in this direction, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has now decided. However, I expect the coalition to reconsider the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party so that, in addition to the inquiry committee, the working bodies of the National Assembly can also have access to these documents and, last but not least, that these documents can be discussed at the plenary session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u61	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, welcome! The new Banking Act will be supported unanimously by the Desus Group in the same way at the working body. Our investigative commission, a state-level body that has noted abuses in the Slovenian banking system, has been pointing out for some time the difficulties it has in obtaining confidential bank data. In Desus, we believe that the Commission, even though it is not led by the representatives of Desus, is doing its work very well, very properly, and we want this work to be even more efficient, faster and even more smoothly with the amendment of this law, so that confidential banking data will be even faster and easier available. Otherwise, the current text of Article 126 of the Banking Act also allows access to confidential data to the parliamentary commission of inquiry, but in practice there are different interpretations, different interpretations of this Article and related non-conformities with regard to judicial practice. Therefore, now, we are convinced, more firmly, that, between the exceptions to the protection of the duties of confidential data, the case of the fact that such data is required in writing by the Commission of Inquiry, when it is carried out in accordance with the law for this particular investigation, will be made clear. However, it must also be said, of course, that the possibility of access to these data will not be absolute, as it will continue to be limited by the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and so on. The powers and powers of the Parliamentary Investigative Commission shall be limited by the Constitution defined by the position and powers of the National Assembly and by reference to the mandate of the Commission of Inquiry, as set out in the Law on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigation. In Desus, it also seems to us that the Court of Auditors is now included among entities that can access confidential bank data under certain conditions. This is according to the law governing its operation, which is responsible for auditing the operations of users of public funds, including a bank in which the State or the local community has a majority share. In view of the assessment that the Court of Auditors could also face a similar difficulty in accessing the necessary information or information needed to carry out the work itself, that is to say, audits, we have also addressed this confusion. In autumn we also expect to see on the agenda the amendment of the Banka Slovenije Act, where we will also be sure to define that there will be a smooth implementation of the lookout under the fingertips, the smooth implementation of the audits also to the Court of Auditors in Banka Slovenije, let anyone think about it abroad or at home, whatever he wants. I sincerely look forward to handling this marriage, but it's already a story for the warm if not hot in the fall. In order not to go too far as the amendments to ZBan-2 are concerned, we will unanimously support the proposed amendment of this law in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u63	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Seven. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I support the solution that the Government has drawn up, so that some other institutions, including the National Assembly Commission of Inquiry, can obtain certain information from the bank they need. What exactly is this all about? In fact, it's tax confidentiality. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that this data be obtained not only by the Commission of Inquiry but also by other Commissions and, of course, by the National Assembly. Why is that? This is the first part of the amendment and the second part of the amendment refers, of course, to those banks that simply went bankrupt. In fact, the whole matter stems from one sentence at the beginning of the government's material, which says that banking "is based on trust", in the helm, "the bank's trust that the borrower will return the borrowed money; the creditor's trust that the bank will deal with its data carefully and respect their confidentiality". It is said that the data of the borrower, the one who actually takes the credit, will be handled with care and confidentiality. With this guy getting his credit back. That's all nice and all right. This is probably what every textbook says about financial business, banking and so on. Trust issues arise when the borrower does not return the money and does not repay the loan to the bank and the bank does not get it back. Is this bank still obliged to protect bank secrecy and, in fact, this relationship is still based on trust if it is suspected, if it is known and so on, that in fact, a borrower deliberately and consciously takes credit in order to spend it and then does not return it? Of course, here's the whole story. And because this borrower – but not just one, but more – does not return the money, the bank comes into a situation, I will not use some educated financial term now, but one that is already based on history, the bank is going to go bankrupt. This is, we can say, bankruptcy, banking bankruptcy, business bankruptcy and so on – simply bankruptcy. In the 19th century — at least so in some novels by French writers — the bankers put a bullet in their head. Balzac wrote about it. Today, of course, the situation is a little different. Today it is slightly different, because when the bank goes bankrupt, and so came the New Ljubljana Bank and the NKBM and some other banks, the country faced bankruptcy. Who is this country now, and how did this country get in? Of course the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and so on, in a way that used the taxpayer's money. And here is now the question of confidentiality between the borrower and the lender, especially if this borrower has not deliberately returned the money and has consciously taken this loan and so on. He's not here. We're still protecting him to a certain extent. But the SDS proposal is that it should no longer be protected so that those persons who have been elected by citizens and citizens whose money has been used to prevent this bank from going bankrupt have the right to know. The right to know how she went or how the bank would have gone bankrupt if they hadn't used their money. The matter is very simple and therefore the Slovenian Democratic Party believes and proposes this amendment that, if not already others, we have at least Members and Members who have been elected from those who have given money to prevent the bank from going bankrupt, the right to know what the bank was doing with this money, how it was working with this money, whether it worked carefully, how it was with the documents and so on and so on. But here, as I understand, there is no consensus on this in the coalition or, in fact, the coalition opposes it and says, well, only an investigative commission with special tasks to investigate all these matters will now be able to obtain this data. But not the National Assembly, but not the other Members and Members and so on and so on. Why not? Who are you protecting? Who are you protecting?Oh, my God! Government, who are you protecting? Banks would go bankrupt if they didn't use taxpayers' money. And why now at least the Members elected by these taxpayers have no right to know why, how and so on. Is this some kind of bank secrecy? Hello?Oh, my God! What bank secrecy? Someone brought someone around, tricked them if you want. And now the government is protecting the one who can't give everyone this information. Look, there's something wrong here, something doesn't go perfectly human, moral, ethically, as you want, SMC, you look at it, but here something just doesn't go together. Things are simple. Let us now leave all the directives and so on, things are human, understandable, understandable to people. And here we propose that this amendment be actually accepted. There'll be no harm done. And no harm will come if taxpayers have the right to know about those banks that went maybe, even though they got taxpayers' money, they got voters' money and voters' money, bankruptcy. We also have banks that went bankrupt, or bankrupt, if you want that better term. They went bankrupt, even though the taxpayers invested some 100 million in them. Of course, we are now dealing with these things, if you want to historically, in the 21st century, different from the 19th century. In the 19th, someone took responsibility, which is what the novels say. In the 21st, however, we have the European Central Bank and this regulation goes on to do so, but things are completely simple. I think that we should actually take a decision here and also adopt the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party that, if not already others, at least the Members and Members elected by the citizens and citizens who paid these banks to avoid going bankrupt have the right to know what they were actually doing. And, of course, here it is now – you know, when you also talk about the interest in protecting classified information, it collides with the public interest, so it says, in this case data protection strikes with public interest. Where does it say that public interest is bank secrecy? The public interest is that the people who gave money to the banks for not going bankrupt get this information. It's a public interest. Reverse! So look, I'm not going to say now what's been going on in the past years in this banking area, but we have a public interest that people know. I think it's fair, it's right, even to know what that money went for, who it went to, and that it just doesn't happen again, just like it says here in the paper. So they don't happen again. That bankruptcy based on fraud is not repeated in this country. That is why, of course, I will also support the proposal or amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and I think that, if not the other, it is understandable, logical, fair, moral, ethical, whatever else you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I fully agree with Andre Širclje that this government and coalition have done little to investigate what went wrong in the resolution of the banking system and what went wrong in the banking and financial crisis itself, which Slovenia has experienced. This is essentially the first corrupt government, and in one way or another, the crisis has dragged us somewhere until the last quarter of 2013. And you, as the first corrupt government, bear this responsibility to investigate, clear and bring those responsible to the courts, to the authorities and to the citizens. I'm gonna repeat the things you promised me, and you didn't do them. The coalition agreement states in a very exposed place that you will prepare a law on the systematic investigation of projects of national importance. You even brought this law to the National Assembly at the beginning of your term of office. We supported it in the United Left, although it was done strangely, but we said, well, in the second reading together, we will fix this law, put it on its feet, so that the investigation can start working. It is now a pre-election year, and this law is nowhere or has been withdrawn by Minister Klemenčič and we received it again a few weeks ago in a practically identical form, as it was at the beginning of the mandate. This is unacceptable, and I don't know why you're not ready to make this coalition commitment. Another thing that bothers us is that this coalition protects Banka Slovenije, Governor Jazbec and thus indirectly everything that has happened in this rehabilitation. The assessment that Slovenia has overpaid bank rehabilitation for €1.5 billion is not just an assessment of some economists. This is a fully justified assumption, demonstrated by all comparisons with other European countries. In Spain, the difference between stress tests, which were made from the bottom up and vice versa, was negligible. With us, this difference was €1.5 billion and Banka Slovenije decided to take into account a more expensive test. We don't know whose direction it was, whose direction it was, whose direction it was, whose direction it was, whose direction it was, and who it was, we don't know. However, we know that citizens and citizens have been harmed by 1.5 billion funds, and you can imagine what we could do with this money in this country. If I touch the amendments of this law. As we say, we will support this law and strongly support both of the solutions found in it. We support, therefore, that the Commissions of Inquiry in Parliament can obtain information bearing the code of secrecy, and we also support that the Court of Auditors can obtain data bearing the mark of bank secrecy. The Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment extends this matter in such a way as to enable any committee or commission in the National Assembly to obtain this information if the bank has received State aid and data protection is not necessary if the bank has ceased to exist or has received State aid for at least 10 years prior to termination. We do not agree, however, for two reasons. On the one hand, the formulation is too broad because it means that, in essence, access to data that can serve political, personal and such and other accounting, even if there are no legitimate reasons, would be too open. In fact, any commission in the National Assembly could get this information and treat it in any way, because all banks are practically falling into that definition that you wrote down. On the other hand, it is too narrow because it only touches banks that have received state aid. Here I think that if we talk about this, all banks need to be treated with the same vats, but investigate them in a focused way, so let the Court of Auditors deal with this and let investigative commissions in the National Assembly deal with it, which have to deal with the data obtained in a responsible manner. Given that, according to our assessment, the law meets these two criteria, we will support it, but we cannot support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I must admit that it is my pleasure to be at the end of the debate, because respected colleagues have put before me a few thoughts or thesis, and I cannot help but begin in this context immediately. But despite all the introductory words, I speak as a Member on my behalf, and I strongly reject the proposal of the SDS Group of Members. But I'll tell you why. In view of a respected colleague who talked about, if I say so, trust, in fact, I think we are thinking in a similar way, but we are focusing entirely on a different direction, because trust – if we touch a financial institution, in this case a bank, it is simply necessary to know what a worn-out flossule is, that money is considered to be a shy bird – and the essence, when we touch words of trust in this segment of the bank, is in particular that money that represents the basic fact that the bank is operating or that it has its processes at all. And it's about savings, it's about deposits, it's called that kind of means, which is then the second part of the activity, which is primary and which is also profitable in some ways. Thus, in addition to other banking services, these are also so-called credit relations. This is why this trust, at least I understand it from government materials, especially in this context, is trust, as far as data is concerned, but as it does, I hope that I will not be misinterpreted, a subordinate role. Because the essence of trust is that you have a stable financial banking business. What I have to say in some way, because I have been challenged, is that in such political rhetoric I suppose that when we touch on some arguments for and against, it is right to know at least the basics of the Bond Code. Because the Bond Code speaks very clearly about the loan and credit agreement. Why is there constant abuse in political rhetoric? I'll take the case. I come to the bank and ask for 10 billion credits and the management or the person who decides on the credit relationship decides to grant it to me without insurance. Then you can't tell me that I'm the main culprit because I didn't return the loan. First of all, because the one who approves has all the leverage to overestimate before approval, whether I am creditworthy, or to put in an insurance case equivalent to the amount I receive. That is why I must be very clear here in this position, because for two years now I have been firmly saying that the responsibility for a 5 billion-dollar bank hole is primarily on the part of the administrations and the supervisory boards, depending on the level of the loan. For they are, as we have said many times, not only the principle of a good master, but in particular the principle of the care of an expert, applies to these places of individuals who perform these works and tasks. They have a series of rules that they themselves adopt, and they are bound to stick to their own rules. That I do not then speak here yet the rules of the regulator of the bank that I do not speak in this case also of the European central banks and of all possible directives. There are many such rules, rules that must be adhered to by those entrusted with bank management or management. And me as a client – then it's hard to say that I abused. There is also this option below, certainly if I misused by giving some wrong information if I deceived a decision maker with completely different information. That's why I say if I go back to the amendment itself, why is the first part of the amendment tabled to me personally unacceptable? In particular, because the banking investigative committee assesses and identifies political responsibility, and it is important for us as Members that, if we are members of the banking parliamentary investigative commission, we are also committed to the so-called secrecy, we are committed to silence. However, if we are talking here about the National Assembly or about the parental committees, then that means that certain data, information, documentary information, whatever else that would have been obtained from such a legal basis, is indeed all public. And here we are committed to the final stage precisely because of the stability of the financial system, to make sure that the business banks are truly fully able to operate in a market where, as we say, they operate very clearly solely on the basis of trust, and the likelihood that the so-called deposits or the money invested are safely stored. Of course, there's the subroutine. A few words why this proposal was a coalition. I must admit that I am grateful for the broad understanding, especially because not only are we allowing the parliamentary investigative committee all leverages, that really quickly it is possible to obtain data, given that the executive branch of the authority of this committee has made it impossible for a number of faster activities Yes, we may be a little late, but you know, a person also has before us that we have law enforcement authorities, police, the prosecution, the judiciary, and still a lot of thoughts, because there are some direct legal bases to determine that something is significantly moving. [[…]] The fact is that if they really want to identify such abuses effectively, we need them. I must admit that I am critical and agree with my colleague that my government does not know how very active in this area, and here I share, let's say, a few disappointments, because the expectations of discovering so-called derogations in the bank hole were greater. I have to touch another one of the editorials who says it's political prestige. I think he made a little mistake, because political prestige was in the determination or composition of the banking commission when it was being established. We can remember because there has been a lot of talk and a lot of time spent on who will be the chairman of the Banking Investigation Commission. That's when political prestige is. I would not discuss this today if we were talking about the content of the amendments, which we need to complement in particular because it is more effective and that the results we all expect are faster. A few more words regarding the Court of Auditors. I must admit that I am very pleased that there has been a broad consensus here too, because both the Ljubljana Bank and the other state-owned banks are literally under a system where the Court of Auditors has the opportunity to look into their operations. Those who follow this kind of business a little bit – we were a little disappointed that the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank did not allow the Court of Auditors to see all the documents. Perhaps consciously, perhaps they simply did not have them because they could have destroyed them. But the point is to find out that if there is no document, it means that it is really necessary to make a fundamental movement in the field of law enforcement. For if there are no business documents, this means a direct provision of the Penal Code, why there are no business documents – because they have simply been destroyed. If they refer to loss, it simply does not count. That's why I'm going back to this part of the Court of Auditors. It is right for this to happen, and I very much agree that it would be good for the Court of Auditors to be set up in the central bank system in one way or another. But these are activities that are likely to be ahead of us, and this will be a major challenge not only for the legislative body, probably also for the executive branch of power. To conclude, it is right that we have somehow come to a change in the Banking Act. Above all, in order to enable the banking parliamentary investigative committee to really, although a little late, good conditions, especially by the fact that the executive branch will no longer interfere with the acquisition of individual documents. However, I think it is the commitment of all of us here to work really actively and help with different approaches, that the Banking Investigation Commission does its work in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll replicate my colleague Dusan Verbich. I'm the one he called who was talking about trust, and now I've come forward. It is true that trust is important for the banking system. But if trust is gone because someone just broke it off, then it's probably not on both sides. The one who gave the money to even make it work, so much more. You yourself mentioned that they were depositaries. Who are the depositaries? These are mostly natural persons, so to speak, or citizens and citizens. And so much more so, of course, because their money was used for some loans. We all know how banking actually works, on the basis of deposits, a certain percentage of the money for credit is given, but there is a liquidity reserve and so on. And then these deposits created loans that weren't returned. Here's the moral, I'll say, banking business is even more on the ground, because it's the money of these natural people who've been messed up. And then they had to give it again as taxpayers. This makes it even more reasonable for us to obtain this information in the National Assembly, where we are sitting representatives of these depositaries and these people. Mr. Verbich, don't worry about secrecy. Any meeting in the National Assembly may be a secret. This isn't just an investigative committee. This could be this meeting, this could be the commission, this could be any committee. And this argument that it can't be done, because then it would all become public and in the newspapers, simply, Mr Verbic, it doesn't hold. Everything can be kept secret here. Now we can close the public meeting if we talk about classified information. This amendment does not open this to the public in the sense that the names and surnames will now be spoken at public meetings and so on. We know this is not the way it works with depositaries, and so on, any meeting can be a secret. I think, however, that this amendment is justified, even for the reasons that I have actually said before, and now I have only briefly taken them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u71	There's no replica to the replica. But I'm going to give another round because I can see there are more who want to discuss it. Please sign up. Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In the context of the debate on the amendment to Article 3 prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, I would like in particular to point out the extremely important fact that has actually taken place at the meeting of the home working body, which is an amendment allowing the Court of Auditors to access all the data it needs when it comes to the rehabilitation of the banking system by public means. I think that this is a very important step if this law is to be adopted, which I have no doubt because support is provided, at least in these positions of the parliamentary groups so far. The Court of Auditors' report is very much helpful to the National Assembly and also to the Commission of Inquiry, which is an integral part of this law, so that access can be easily accessed or significantly simplified to this extent, as we have had the opportunity so far. I am confident that the National Assembly, as a political body, will prepare an appropriate review as the Court of Auditors in the Republic of Slovenia, if that is not the case, we have the opportunity to propose this to the Court of Auditors and, of course, also to decide on such a review if it is not already decided. [[…]] This material is a very good basis then not only for the work of the Commission of Inquiry, but the Court of Auditors’ report can certainly also be dealt with by other working bodies. Here I think we have actually achieved the effect that as a policy we can then also get as much quality data as possible to analyse the situation of the causes of the public recapitalisation of banks. Nevertheless, the National Assembly is a political body, and if we have data from the Court of Auditors, surely our political decisions are also significantly more qualitative and significantly more rational if they are based on the findings of the Court of Auditors. I am sure that many working bodies will then be able to bear the consequences of the social situation of people, for example, if they find that these measures, which have been introduced in the banking system for example, can therefore also bear the consequences of the social situation of the people – this can certainly also be addressed by the committee responsible for the social situation of the people. That's how I see all this process that could be going on. It really seems to me that we are allowing the Court of Auditors to obtain an opportunity on the basis of a written request, as stated, to carry out a review, and thereby round up our common competences that we have. Finally, the Court of Auditors reports to the National Assembly, and this is what is essential in all this proceedings. This also avoids all possible perceptions or complications that appear in the debates in this amendment, whether something is meant to be used in a way that reveals certain data or not. This is always one of the dilemmas we face, even in this amendment, this dilemma is exposed. When you receive the Court of Auditors’ report, of course, there are also very clear conditions for access to this data and then you must be respected by another working body that wants to deal with this material. I think that the current solution or, in fact, the supplement that has taken place on the committee is extremely good, and I am sure that it will allow us all in a totally indisputable way to have access to this material and, of course, also to the appropriate treatment then not only on the committee of inquiry, but also on the other working bodies, which will see and perceive interest in the findings of, say, the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! What we have already announced in the opening statement on the position, I am sure that this debate is necessary today, and with what they are advocating, I do not know, at least the honourable fellow Member of the Modern Centre Party, colleague Verbic, I cannot agree. It has already been made clear in the replica that certain things the coalition is trying to justify not supporting our proposed amendment do not hold. I personally believe that this amendment of the Banking Act should take a step further, a step further than the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes, not only an investigative committee, but also the working bodies of the National Assembly and, last but not least, a plenary session. I really don't know what the coalition is or what the government is afraid of here. Look, the system is the same. Confidential information should be treated in the same way as we should, whether we should familiarise ourselves with it on an investigative committee or meet at a committee or meet at a plenary session. Okay, it's important that you take a step forward so that at least the investigative commission can get to the required documents faster, because here I think the time component is important. The time component, however, does not play in favour of the investigative commission, but plays in favour of those who may have misused the Slovenian banking system. I am sure that there have been quite a number of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, not least more than 5 billion per recapitalisation by taxpayers, that is clearly what he is saying. I will personally support this proposal from our amendment. On the other hand, when my colleague Verbič talks about trust, look, there's a system in here when the bank goes bankrupt. When the bank is bankrupt or in liquidation, I don't think we can talk about some trust in the system itself. I am convinced that the step and amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is a step in the right direction. However, it is also a step that does not compromise the confidentiality of data, nor does it endanger the banking system. I am sure that Members and Members of Parliament should get to know this information as soon as possible. Once again, I regret that, although the Slovenian Democratic Party has already proposed such a amendment to the law three times in this mandate, it has not been supported by the coalition in the previous mandate, and last but not least, the investigative commission has had a great deal of difficulty in obtaining documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much again. If I start at the end of what my esteemed predecessor has commented. I pulled the data he said three times in this term. The fact is that you have invested in the parliamentary procedure in December 2013, that is, before our mandate, and then in February 2015 and December 2016. I will not go into this dialogue as far as data protection is concerned and so on, because I must admit that I am partly in agreement with the colleagues who have been touched by this, but I am still much more in the next position. If we look at the competence of both the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the decision itself, it is very clear that the parliamentary commission of inquiry, with a view to carrying out investigations, requires the submission of confidential data on the bank's committees, if this is necessary to achieve the objectives of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. In this context, in some ways I simply do not agree that the National Assembly or any other body has the option of obtaining such data. That is why we have set up a special parliamentary commission of inquiry in the National Assembly to really have the opportunity to obtain virtually all the data. In this context, I have also previously discussed confidentiality and so on. I owe another matter, which was also a bit of a touch in the debate. The responsible owner, who sets up the board of directors and the supervisory board, also expects, to require, however, a bank measure, that, if the bank's management happens to abuse the granting of loans and approve without insurance, without any possibility of such claims being returned. Therefore, the Administration has the possibility, and usually always does so, to file compensation actions against those persons who simply did not return from the so-called bond relationship what they received. So there are a lot of these institutions, which is why I don't see this so-called connection here with the political possibility that everything can be seen that we have the possibility of taxpayers and so on. Yes, to a certain extent, but the one who in some way caused this to happen is the roof person who is responsible. For this reason, I say that one is the so-called political responsibility and the other is the criminal, material, personal and similar law enforcement authorities, as we said. Unfortunately, we find and here we are united that in the last two or three years, literally law enforcement authorities have not carried out what is expected of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In view of the debate — and I listened to it — and I decided to stop by, just because some things I really don’t understand. Doesn't matter, Mr. Verbich, twice, three times. Indeed, one matter was the end of the mandate, but the fact is that we have repeatedly tabled this amendment of the law and you have rejected it, at least you in this mandate twice. Today you're talking about how important it is. Today, after two years of investigative work, an investigative commission that has constantly pointed out the difficulties it has in obtaining data. By obtaining data; believe me, it would probably be much more and easier done for all of these members who are on this committee if these data could be obtained. Not to mention the commission that worked before, which also didn't get any data. Now you say that you strongly oppose the step proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I hope that you will not remember the end of your term of office that this might be a good thing. I'll tell you why. The conviction in the banking field is practically null and void. We had 5 billion taxpayers' money, literally due to bankruptcy, bank holes, whatever the case, the rehabilitation of state banks – and we say that data must be protected. I argue that if once taxpayers have to fix things, there is virtually no more secrecy. To whom, Your Honor, is the bank's secrecy? What kind of bank secrecy should still apply at that time? In fact, this should no longer be divorced, for there are also loans that, for example, are taken between the borrower and the lender if someone does not repay the loan or whatever the case has already been said today, because this contract is null and void. Yeah, well, if you don't return it, then you didn't comply with the contract you made. The lender didn't just return the loan. So what kind of banking secrecy should still be in place here, because it has not returned its obligations – for example, I am speaking. What's to protect him, who's to protect him? Then should taxpayers protect them? I think that any commission of inquiry dealing with this – and also the National Assembly – should come to the data. However, what is really exempt from this is, of course, that every authority must treat classified information as it should. So we have closed sessions at the National Assembly, but we should get to the data. It is also because corruption in this area is spoken of several times, but how, if certain data were not to be given. There's trouble now, too. I think it should also be possible for the National Assembly and others to obtain some information. It's not about abuse of that data. It is easier to identify responsibility and this is the only way that this work will be easier if we just get to the data. Today you all see what's flying out of this investigative commission. The things that must cause us all to have a headache, which is not only for this country, but we are talking about international crime. This commission, let me remind you once again, had a crazy problem in obtaining data; one court, another court. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Can we end this discussion slowly? Good. So I'm concluding. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 25th agenda. This concludes the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is to defend the proposal recommended in connection with the activity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food of the Magi. Dejana Žedan at the loss of the best agricultural land in the Magna project. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of nineteen Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the Group of Nineteen Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Tomaž Lisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u80	Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and coworkers, a nice holiday greeting! In the SDS Group, we have been actively following developments in the field of so-called agricultural policy for several years and we do not care what happens to our best agricultural land, which we do not have much because of our natural habitats. On the other hand, of course, we are very happy when a foreign investor comes to Slovenia so that even those locals do not escape, and that is the problem. There is always a smart compromise between the economic idea and the protection of the best agricultural land. The Magna example is a typical example of how ad hoc, non-systemic, political treatment of agricultural land in Slovenia. That is why we have been monitoring the whole operation even more closely and, above all, we have been monitoring the work of the Minister of Mags. Dejan Židan for the loss of the best agricultural land in the Magna project. And the more we follow the story, the more holes this story is called, the Minister of Agriculture is supposed to protect agricultural land. There is probably no need to repeat some of the historical facts about Magna's arrival, nor does the state have so far earmarked for the management of the Hoče-Slovnica business zone, as well as for Magna Steyr, already €18.6 million. However, we are very concerned because when we have the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture on Protection on the one hand, I repeat, the best agricultural land, in ridicule of these decisions, even proposed by the coalition parliamentary group, the Magna case happens. The law itself had a number of problematic indications, but in the SDS Group we supported it for only one reason. At that meeting in the adoption of a law officially called the Law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area of the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, we have observed in one eye that it is again a non-systemic solution, which is a red or green thread of this government, but when representatives of all ministries, and also Members themselves, in particular those from the Styrian work, have advocated or ensured that this project will bring 3 thousand, 3 thousand, 100, 3 thousand 200, 3 thousand 300, so that the number of employees will come to this company, we were, of course, thrilled, once again, that it is a non-systemic solution and that there are still certain issues, at least as regards agricultural land, open. But in the following story, as has already been said, there are more and more indictees that this is a poorly prepared economic project, which apparently has a lot of shortcomings in agricultural and environmental work. It appears here that the minister of the Jews did not play the role he was supposed to play. We've got a few things to do with that. As part of the adoption of the law, we have already warned that it will be necessary, despite the fact that the law outside the system law is addressing the problem of decommissioning farmers, to approach farmers with a thin margin of flexibility and to offer them replacement agricultural land. Then there were stories, such as the so-called Rogogos Forest, a civil initiative, then the pressure on the Maribor Public Economics Institute of Rinka to take part in the provision of land, and see, after half a year, some miracle from the drawer – in the SDS Group we dare to say from the political drawer – came the generous offer of Perutina Ptuj, czech, and now we will solve the whole matter; and since then not the spirit of not hearing. The most surprising thing is that in the June 7 verses we heard the minister of the Jews, who said, of course, on questions whether the Government had actually offered other options for the location, he replied: “I don’t know that, because I never talked to Magno myself. But I know with what information both the Minister of Economic Affairs and the President of the Government have come to the Government, that it is agreed for Magno that it is the only possible location. And that is it and that this is a priority project for the Government.” But we all know how to make laws. If a law goes into procedure, then the other ministries have to be there somehow. For if it is 100 hectares of the best agricultural land, it is almost impossible for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food not to know what is happening to them or what is going to happen to them. For already the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia say that government materials must be coordinated with ministers and government services concerned. There is no indication in the law that the law has not been intersectorally coordinated. In short, the Minister said on 7 June 2017: “I have no idea how this project happened, the Ministry of Agriculture had nothing to do with it.” Then we get to the SDS Group the material of Kidričeva Municipality of 8 November 2016, a letter to the Government, where they call and propose coordination regarding the search for the best solutions and also because the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber warned that it was necessary to be careful. But apparently the government was talking to the Municipality of Kidrič in its pocket — and we later learned that it was not only the Municipality of Kidrič who proposed a replacement location but also seven other locations. But it is clearly increasingly important that the political momentum between the local and national policies dominated by the Modern Centre Party and the Social Democrats is, as has already been said, that this project is a government project, regardless of the price to be paid. If the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs had not played with a fig in its pocket, then why would this chronology of the Municipality of Kidricheva, which, for example, had received an answer at the end of November 2016 that the location was fixed, but that they could meet about the location and then arrange – and even visits – between representatives of the Ministry of Economy and the Municipality of Kidrichev; and, as it is said, with a fig in their pocket, because the fact is that the Government has decided. That this is mainly a political project, including the Minister of Mags. In spite of the fact that he spoke publicly and still talks about how the best agricultural land should be protected, he does not respect the conclusions of the competent Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, he shows the response of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the initiative to establish a production zone in the area of Kidričeva Municipality. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that, given what the following priority criteria have been followed, which were said to be that of course the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica is a better partner than Kidričevo, in our opinion, all that the Ministry says is the direct proximity of the motorway, the direct connection to the road network, the possibility of joining the railway network, the proximity of the airport, the settlement area, the environmental criterion, the economic criterion – on the side of the Municipality of Kidricheva, and probably, if calculated, also on the side of Maribor Municipality, which offered an also abandoned industrial area called Tezno. But of course, then they came to one side of the word of Minister Dejan Jewan, czech, we acted exclusively professionally. Then it's really questionable that this profession at the Ministry is run by the Minister of Mags. Diane Jedhan. How did the profession at the Ministry of Agriculture allow 100 hectares of the best agricultural land to be easily released? But of course, this professional decision has a political connotation: Mayor of the Municipality of Hoče – Slivnica – Mr. from the SMC party; Mr. who writes the environmental consensus – the SMC party. The poultry of Ptuj, which is suddenly the greatest benefactor in providing replacement land — we know how about the administration of this company works politically or where it belongs. Last but not least, a company was selected among nine or eight operators, and a company could be very close to Minister Dejan Židan, the director of the company, whom we know also comes from a quota of companies that fall under the influence of a SD client. In short, there's a lot of talk about expertise, and in the back, there's the Minister of Mag. Dejan Jedhan works exclusively politically. To act exclusively politically, in recent years his ministry has been plagued by problems from practice, when different municipalities, different economic operators have by no means broken the blockade called the red light of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition in obtaining consensus on such investments. The best Slovenian investors, because of the inability to acquire land, go abroad or wait a decade for the opportunity to obtain agricultural land, or even Slovenian owners, not only to go abroad, will never return. That is why it is very disturbing for us here that Minister Dejan Židan talks about the same vats for everyone, but works instead of professionally exclusively politically. Because of this, we ask the Minister of the Jews where his profession is and where his policy is. And there will be no mistake again; in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have supported the proposal of the law, but we are increasingly convinced that there is a compromise between the two biggest government parties, and from the background there is already talk, even anonymous letters come about why it was 100 hectares. The municipality of Kidričevo has 100 hectares, but it was not good enough; the Municipality of Maribor has little less hectares, but it was not good enough. And why was the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica the best? Like I said, it's a political project. And your honor, 100 hectares of the best agricultural land for a single paint shop? I come from a congregation of less than 25 hectares in the area of international companies, with a total of thousands of employees. But here we speak in the first phase to be assured, 404 is the last number – but if it will! Because there are more and more indications that this political suitor will be born of a minister of the Jews who wants to sell or sell 100 hectares of the best agricultural land. It is also contentious that while the Ministry of Economic Development is talking about how greenfield is the biggest investment, we have the most environmental problems. For the conclusion of this recital. If this is the largest state investment, why did you leave the local community to the full adoption of the municipal spatial plan, but if the country with the State Spatial Plan could solve it much faster and more effectively? In short, Minister Dejan Židan refers to professional decisions, forgets about the timeline, says he does not know what the project is about, and all indications show that he knows exactly what it is, and knows exactly why he will attach his political chair. All for the money to turn in the right hands and to turn to the loss of the best agricultural land. We strongly oppose this in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. On 26 June 2017, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you, President, again. The Agriculture Committee shall be held at its 6th emergency session. 6. as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a recommendation concerning the inactivity of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejan Židan at the loss of the best agricultural land in the Magna project. As a representative of the proposer in the additional explanation, I have pointed out that in Slovenia large projects such as Magna are welcome, but it is necessary to ask who is responsible for such projects, where such projects should be implemented and how. I also said that, on a proposal from one of the coalition members in December 2016, the Committee called on the Government to make a list of the free capacities of the existing business and economic zones as soon as possible and to draw up an inter-departmentally coordinated set of possible new business and economic zones in a way that does not interfere with agricultural land and other protected areas. We also considered that only one location was the one that was presented to Magna and, of course, it was taken with pleasure. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation of the written opinion that the Legislative and Legal Service had no comments on the content of the proposal for a recommendation, as it remained within the framework of the constitutional bases to be taken into account by the National Assembly in the exercise of its supervisory function and considered that the title of the draft act did not reflect the content itself. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the Government, within the framework of the Maribor Competitiveness Promotion Programme with a wider environment in the period 2013-2018, earmarked an amount of EUR 10 million for the establishment of the Hoče-Slivnica Production Zone. The zone is intended for a strategic investor and any investor may apply for it. He added that the government knew that Magna Steyr was an interested investor. With regard to the selection of the site, he stressed that it was not political interests, but that only one of the nine locations corresponded to the wishes of investors and that it was a huge investment, which is the largest greenfield investment, i.e. an investment on the lawn, after Slovenia's independence. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food stressed that decisions have been made professionally and not politically. He explained the reservations made by the Ministry, since it was a departure from the other planning or placement of spatial arrangements of State importance and an intervention to the best agricultural land of 75 hectares with a markedly good production potential and a credit rating of 47 to 65, even 80 cities, without finding the appropriate mitigation or countervailing measures unacceptable. The Ministry was involved in the process of amending and supplementing the municipal spatial plan as a carrier of land regulation in the field of agricultural land. In all the opinions issued, it pointed out that it was an intervention on the best agricultural land with a good production potential on a large scale and that the Ministry conditioned the change of agricultural use with the appropriate relief measures, so the following was added to the OPP Hotze - Slivnica: in the event of a failure to implement the project within five years after the adoption of the OPN land returned to agricultural use and the second condition was the construction phase of the zone and the third condition that the forest should be cut down and prepared land for the introduction of fertile land from the zone and that replacement agricultural land should be established prior to the acquisition of a useful permit. The director of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture Branko Ravnik pointed out that the Chamber had always pointed out the need to find another location at the time of the adoption of the law. He believed that 90 hectares was an extremely large area for this purpose. In the debate, MPs from the types of SDS proponents stressed that they certainly support the law, despite the fact that it is a unique issue, but they have quite a few agricultural and environmental issues on which they would like to get questions and are both professionally and politically controversial. The representative of the Levica Group stressed that she disagreed with the fact that the highest quality agricultural land in Slovenia was being sacrificed for the project. The car lake will be placed on a highly watertight area and it is not quite clear how the groundwater will be protected. It has expressed the urgent protection of agricultural land and jobs can also be created elsewhere where there will be less damage to the environment. The members of the coalition stressed that the Government had found that the proposed location was the most appropriate and for several reasons: size, attachment to the motorway and the rail network, direct proximity to the airport – with all the required connections being possible to be implemented by upgrading existing systems – locations outside specific protection regimes other than the protection of the groundwater, with specific measures being taken to protect the groundwater. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the proposal for a recommendation and did not adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. I'm guessing Mr. Mag. Aleš Cantarutti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The great writer Krleža wrote that humans do not create because we are happy, we create because we are unhappy because we face suffering and pain. The Bible was written in pain, Odysseus was written by a blind man for suffering and eternal darkness, and the 9th was composed by a deaf man to proclaim the cry of lewdness around him. We could say that great things are born in pain, and sometimes it seems that something similar is true in the case of planning the largest greenfield investment after the independence of Slovenia, which we witness. Of course, I am exaggerating, but what I want to say is that if, years ago, when we had nearly 120 000 unemployed in Slovenia and large business systems were failing as a current lane, someone offered such an investment, they would probably not have faced such and so many concerns about the planned investment. We're doing better today, thank God. This seems to encourage us to be even more in doubt about ourselves or, in all honesty, about well - intentionedness, as if this leads us to mistrust, perhaps even hurtful disdain. In doing so, I do not claim that, even on such an investment opportunity, we must unconditionally agree to all the conditions, that there is no need to seek compromises or that we can even circumvent legislation. On the contrary! We need to talk, exchange opinions, positions, including concerns about the possible negative effects of such an investment, but we need to do this in an reasoned manner, based on verified facts, and we need to listen and look together for appropriate solutions. I submit that we have been working on this in connection with Magna's planned investment in the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology since day one. Allow me to re-ciprocate some of the facts related to the project. First of all, the number of jobs. Already in the process of investing the Special Act on the Production Zone of Hoče - Slivnica we knew, and this has also been clearly stated that the investment will be carried out gradually. Thus, during the first phase of Magna, 404 people will be employed, and we expect the next planned phases to be implemented, in which, under favourable conditions, there will also be thousands of workers in the labour markets, which is extremely important for the high unemployment area. So we still believe, and we are confident that, of course, the investment will continue in the next stages. With regard to the selection of the site, it should be clarified that nine potential locations in the Municipality of Koper and the surrounding area, including the existing industrial degraded areas and also the location of Kidričeva, were checked in the course of the negotiations with the investor on the basis of professional grounds. The verified locations due to size or fragmentation, accessibility or other protective restrictions did not correspond to the envisaged investments. The location we last offered was actually one of the last on our list precisely because of the agricultural land located in the triangle of the highway, airport and railways. Last but not least, this location also appeared because this space was envisaged for industrial or commercial activities decades ago. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food was also involved in all investment-related processes, as agricultural land is located in the selected location for the establishment of the production zone in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnice. Already in the process of adoption of the IOP, the said Ministry has requested appropriate mitigation measures, as a key measure to highlight the establishment of replacement agricultural land. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has been involved in the cross-cutting coordination of the specific law, which has made a number of proposals aimed at protecting agricultural land and allowing agricultural activities to continue. In addition, the implementation of the inventory of all functional decommissioned areas is also being carried out at the ICG legal initiative. At the same time, I believe that the Ministry of the Interior and Minister of the Jews have cooperated more than decently and properly in the process, even in the sense of finding suitable solutions and thus, of course, defended agricultural land. In the context of agricultural land, let me stress that from the outset we have advocated and tried to find suitable solutions with all land owners, in particular those farmers who live from the ground. I am pleased to say that we have found the right solution for everything, with all the owners. There remains only one specific case that left Minister Restorationšek in Hoča today, and I believe that relaxation will not be necessary in this latter case as well. Finally, let me stress once again that we are ready to talk about the planned investment and its effects. We have approached the project because we believe it is an exceptional opportunity, both for the region and for the whole country. Since this is the last session before summer holidays, I wish you a pleasant rest and when you return to the parliamentary bench in autumn, the so-called Magna case will be concluded, one way or another. However, I promise you, at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we will do everything we can to complete it for positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u86	Your Honor! With its provisions, the so-called lex Magna has settled a specific investment issue and is, as such, an example of a special law. The fact that we must adopt a special law for an investment from abroad is extremely worrying for Christian Democrats. This law clearly demonstrates the inadequacy of the general legislative framework, which clearly does not address investment placement issues well enough. All of this is unfortunately very eloquent proof that our business environment for private investment is insufficiently regulated. Let us note that according to the World Bank, Slovenia is only 80th in the area of the treatment of building permits between all countries. Selected investors shall be subject to a specific law and all other investors and undertakings shall be subject to difficult procedures for obtaining different licences and consents. What message did we send to our entrepreneurs with this message, and what message did we send to domestic and foreign investors? In Novi Slovenija, we would also like to recall the European Commission's conclusion that Slovenia's share of private investment in 2014 and 2015 has decreased further in relation to GDP. The gap compared to the euro area has increased in this way. According to the report, domestic and foreign investors stress that business barriers are mainly related to the functioning of public administration. As one of the main obstacles for the company, complex and long-term procedures in the area of spatial planning and construction permits are highlighted. In Magna's investment, we need to weigh between its positive and negative aspects. The question is certainly not quite simple. We are aware that the wider area of the planned investment needs new jobs bloodyly. Too many people have to serve their bread in our northern neighbors so that they can wave their hand at this investment. If we do not attract the investor, we are afraid that he will be expected with open arms by another neighbouring country nearby. This would be a huge missed opportunity for new jobs, development and the future of this part of Slovenia. The law also provides for the possibility of leasing landowners, which constitutes an extreme intervention in the inviolability of private property, which must always be genuinely justified. In addition to the claims that investment will actually bring more than a thousand new jobs in the future, there is no investment. Christian Democrats are also aware of the fact that a number of quality agricultural land must be sacrificed in order to make an investment. That is why we will not oppose the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal for recommendations on the inaction of Minister Židan in the loss of the best agricultural land in the Magna Steyr project is the highlight of the politics, arrogance and shameless duality of SDS; the party that welcomed and applauded the construction of Magna Steyr lake on hundreds of hectares of the highest quality agricultural land. Moreover, the SDS even credited itself for this, and today they take the diametrically opposite positions they had just six months ago. In Levika, we have been opposed to the construction of a painting shop for rich cars in the way that this government has undertaken since the very beginning. Already in the consideration of the Law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area of Hoče - Slivnica we have pointed out that the painting room could also be placed elsewhere; that only in the sub-regional statistical region we have 83 degraded land in the total of 211 hectares; that the disputed scope of the painting for which 100 hectares of first-class agricultural land will be sacrificed, while the entire business zone of Command, one of the largest business zones in Slovenia, is 93 hectares, and while the Revoz lake in the New Town is only 8.5 hectares of land. When the law was adopted, the applicants of this time's recommendations to the Government appealed that, as soon as possible, they should prepare a list of investment areas such as this one and prepare a law for the whole country so that no laws would be adopted for each investor individually. They pointed out that there are few foreign investors in Slovenia and that their arrival should be encouraged. At the time, the SDS did not worry about agricultural and ecologically problematic parts of the project. This was pointed out only and only by Levi, while the SDS, together with the government, rolled into the same horn. When discussing the Act on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area of Hoče - Slivnica, members of the SDS urged us to discuss the law as little as possible and to press the “for” button as possible. Now the SDS notes that the project is obviously in a great hurry — look at the fraction! When considering the law in the SDS, we were sold stories about ecologically undeniable lakes on water-based grounds, about different and better paint technologies, and now, look at the fraction, they point out that painthouses are being built that are toxic to humans and the environment. Good morning, but we're already in the afternoon! The consideration of the recommendations is now a 180-degree conversion in the positions of the Slovenian Democratic Party until the construction of Magna's painting house. In doing so, the SDS refers to their support for the marriage as a result of a promise of 3,000 jobs. Well, now, look at the fraction, it turns out there's only going to be about 300 or 400 of them, so they want to convince us of some kind of sincere naivety, while we're all very clear that it's a cold and calculating customer. If they're not, the naive aren't. It is the most miserable and low-level voter turnout and the attempt to demolish the government at all costs, and they are willing to sacrifice the little principle they have left after 25 years of parliamentary participation. The proposal for recommendations, which we are considering, proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia examine other available sites for the implementation of the Magna project, giving priority to the selection already used for industrial use but currently abandoned locations. Well, it's exactly what we requested in Levica from the very beginning when we passed a law that allows the Magna project. And if this law were then rejected, as we suggested in Levica, such recommendations would not be necessary today at all. But remember once again, the SDS was very much in favour of him and very passionately supported him, and now you are saying that you strongly oppose it. It's a little late. The secretary has just said that in six months Magna will stand and the SDS will bear its share of the blame, and so easily you will not wash your hand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u90	Your Honor! Let me start by saying that we do not support or reject the SDS recommendations regarding Magna in the parliamentary group. However, we rejected it because the recommendation to the Government and the debate already held on the working body had nothing to do with the alleged inactivity of Minister Jew. We are considering this recommendation today because the SDS alone does not have enough signatures to convene an emergency meeting of the National Assembly and only with recommendations can they put any topic into the plenary. Therefore, the title itself refers to the urgent meeting of the Committee and then the text of the recommendation has no link, because it is only a business trick. Therefore, we propose to the SDS that, if you are disturbed by Minister Židan, they should put in an interpolation and therefore not sacrifice new jobs. Members of the SDS, despite the public claim that they support the project as such in this location, are doing their best to stop it. How well - known and very characteristic of SDS! In the SMC Group, we specifically requested a 51st urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy in early June to draw attention to the broader importance of the project and to what it could mean to stop it due to political opposition. With the cooperation of many economists, mayors and other prominent stakeholders from the Styria region and, unfortunately, only members and members of the coalition, the committee discussed the promotion of both domestic and foreign strategic investments in the Slovenian economy and Magna Steyr as a strategic investment that brings many jobs and the development and progress of the wider area of Maribor. We SMC Members, as we will today, have shown renewed support for the Magne Steyr project. The arrival of Magne Steyr in Slovenia is also supported by representatives of local communities, economies, education, culture and sports from Podravje. Magna Steyr is a project of the decade that will put Slovenia at the side of the most competitive countries, so it should be carried out to the end and we would like it to be supported by all political options. In this case it is the first major real greenfield industrial project in Slovenia. It is inconceivable to us that the opponents of Magne Steyr's arrival in Slovenia are problematic because of opposition from the government and at the expense of their own people. Members of the SDS, as already mentioned, did not attend these meetings of the Economic Committee. If they did, it would be difficult to justify why they made a recommendation for decision, which requires something already adopted by the Committee on the Economy at that meeting. In addition, it should be noted that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia have already co-financed a research project on the inventory of existing and the preparation of new potential business zones for investments of various purposes under the CRP research programme. So far, a list of degraded areas has been drawn up in seven statistical regions, with five expected by the end of September. But how big a problem is Magna, or the location and agricultural land that are designed for its construction, really? As one of the potential production sites for its long-term development, this global group also selected a region with potentials such as: industrial tradition, trust in people, university, proximity to the company in Graz, proximity to one of Slovenia's largest motorways, possibility of railway connections and proximity to Maribor Airport. The proposed location in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnice meets the conditions necessary for such an establishment. The selected location allows a large enough area for the following phases. It therefore grieves us that all the debate at the selected location has entered the waters of various political interests and divisions. Why does no one say that we lost 70,000 hectares of agricultural land between 1992 and 2017 when we are exposed to agricultural land? After 1970 we built over 100,000 hectares of agricultural land, and after 1991 we lost the largest in Slovenia at the expense of building a highway cross, new roads, bonds and the like. The public interest was so great that there was no protection of agricultural land at all, financial solutions were sought and many routes were therefore made to the best agricultural land. Among the major problems is the division of Slovenia into 212 municipalities, each with its own business zone, shopping centre, new roads and suburbs, residential settlements and so on. It is worth mentioning that some 60,000 hectares of agricultural land are foreseen in the adopted municipal spatial plans. All of this happened during the previous governments, which were also led by the SDS, which also has many mayors. The land for Magna represents only one hundred thousand of the above-mentioned building land. In addition, this land is in an area where the development of industry and also in the 1990s was envisaged in the mid-60s. It also represented a possible location for the construction of the automotive industry. In doing so, it must be pointed out that not one square metre of agricultural land will be lost for this investment. In fact, each square metre of agricultural land to be used for this investment will have to be replaced, so a new square metre of agricultural land will have to be exposed. In order to determine the location, a specific professional basis was developed in accordance with the applicable legislation to verify the different potential locations. In particular, the areas of abandoned large industrial, municipal, transport and similar areas that could be trained for the needs of the investor have been carefully checked. More than a year ago, the first proposed location for Magna's investment was entirely in the industrial zone of Tezno. An analysis of the intended use by municipalities showed that there is no adequate land available in the wider area of Maribor with already defined intended use for industrial production purposes. In the vicinity of Maribor, nine other potential sites were checked for the construction of the Magna plant. Areas that can be built are largely too small and do not allow for enlargement. In view of the above, it was necessary to approach the search for a suitable location on other suitable surfaces, but not defined as building plots intended for industrial production, which correspond to the preferred conditions for selecting a location for a potential investor on the free surface. In the end, based on analyses, it was chosen as the most suitable location in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. Now, in recent weeks, it has been re-emphasized to an alternative location in Kidrichev. It should be pointed out that Magna has made it quite clear that they are not interested in any other location in Slovenia with the exception of this location in Hotch. The president of Magne Europe and Magne Steyr made it clear in Slovenian media that they want to invest in Slovenia, not elsewhere, but if they do not feel welcome, they will go somewhere else. In addition, there is a location in Kidričev in the water protection area and it would need a much larger area of forest than in the municipality of Slivnica. Respectable, the construction of a new establishment would provide the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica and the entire region with the necessary jobs. Stierska today has one of the highest unemployment rates in Slovenia. For Podravje, where unemployment has been on the Slovenian average for many years, at the end of 2016 there were almost 17,000 unemployed in the region, of which more than 40% were in Maribor. Magna in 321 factories in 29 countries employs about 160,000 people worldwide. The Magna group opens up up to 20 new factories in the world every year. Since she has received new orders from BMW and Jaguar, and the production of Mercedes Benz cars has also been extended, she intends to build a new plant to work with the plant in Graz. The painting industry will be based on the production volume of up to 132 thousand painted car body parts per year. It is noted that Magna's painting room is sized for almost the same number of vehicles as Revoz annually. As in all its factories, Magna will also implement its environmental standards, which follow the latest findings or will enforce the use of the best available technologies. Magna plans to employ 404 workers in the first phase of Slovenia on just over 8 hectares, not on 100 hectares. At least a thousand people are bound to work by a financial agreement on strategic investment with the Slovenian government. The other stages of investment depend on the performance of the first phase. So if there's no first phase, there won't be any next stages. During the second phase, a thousand and 350 people would get jobs and an additional thousand and 300 in the third phase. One job in Magna comes to three indirect jobs. Investment in Magno will also have outstanding multiplier effects. The arrival of Magne also creates opportunities for local entrepreneurs, for innkeepers, hotels, carriers and other potential business partners who will support the operation of the plant with their services. Magna is not even looking for workers yet, and applications for employment are already raining. They've already received several thousand applications for employment. This figure indicates that the inhabitants of the region are keenly interested in these factories. And who are we to deny them? This factory will be a worthy successor to a rich automotive tradition in Maribor and, if you like, the plant in Graz is connected to Slovenia from the beginning, as it was founded by Slovenian Janez Puh from Sakouk to Juršinci. Sadly, it is more appreciated by the Austrians than by the Slovenians. Puch’s tower and museum are built in Graz, and the square is named after it. At the Technical University of Graz, a special fund of Puch was established, which is financed by Magna Steyr. We therefore hope that today's meeting in the National Assembly is the last meeting convened to harm this project and the economic and social development of Maribor with its surroundings and the whole of Styria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has a presentation on the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! We know who Anton Leskovar is, don't we? Mr Anton Leskovar is the mayor of Kidričeva Municipality, a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have listened here, we listen repeatedly and we will also hear how the Slovenian Democratic Party supported this investment first, and then now because of political prestige and because it wants to overthrow the government, it opposes it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply not true. The Slovenian Democratic Party has already demonstrated within the 2004-2008 mandate what the environment is creating, especially how the percentage of foreign investors investing their capital in Slovenia is increasing. And unlike some who are opposed to making botanist cars in Slovenia, as they like to say, but would probably prefer to make, if it were possible, what ships or anything else, in short, what they have now is only in Venezuela; and in Venezuela, there are people running away and probably there will be more cars that no one will drive, than people who could drive these cars. These policies have led us to attract foreign investors with successful policies. Why did he mention the mayor of Kidric? Because it's from a party, that's what the Slovenian Democratic Party says, from our party, which you're talking about as opposed to Magne's investment. And what did this mayor say? “In our congregation we have a land that is suitable, which the congregation and citizens would not oppose and where Magna can come.” It is said that the Slovenian Democratic Party supports the investment, supports the new jobs, but not in the way the government has taken up or under the conditions they have agreed to. Now that we are probably here, especially by Mrs Tomić, we are listening to how our fellow Member, Franz Breznik, boasted that he had agreed at one of the dinners with the director of Magna that this investment would come to Slovenia. Look, Mr Breznik, if he had already made a deal, he probably didn't have 300 jobs in mind that would be subject to occupational diseases. He certainly did not mean a painting that is harmful to people and the environment, but he had in mind high-quality jobs that will add value to the Slovenian economy, which will add value to Styria. And he certainly did not mean that the forest would be cut down, that it would be intensely affected by the natural environment before this factory was opened. In short, one thing is what the Slovenian Democratic Party advocates, and in this faith we have also supported Magna's arrival in Slovenia, and another is what has come in the end. This is why we have made a proposal for a recommendation in the SDS Group concerning a recommendation to the Government to examine other available locations for the implementation of this project, with priority being given to adequately equipped industrial zones or currently abandoned locations. Because you want to walk with your head through the wall because you want a location here in Hotch, but you don't want to give up, you don't want to accept the report. And it's not true that Magna only wants this location! As I was aware, the leaders in Magna were supposed to say that when they were negotiating when they were talking, they didn't even know about other alternative locations. For the location offered by Mayor Kidrichevo Municipality, they did not even know. We support, as I have already said, both the encouragement of domestic and foreign investors, but unfortunately we were critical at the time. Many times in this mandate, we hear from the government or coalition that our proposals are not comprehensive or systemic, and on the other hand, this coalition is the one that has adopted certain special laws for individual areas and works very partisanly. Look, don't talk to me about unemployment in Styria and so on. We have 3.9 per cent of unemployment in the valley of Poland, and we have not cut down any forest, and we have not brought any foreign investors because we have people who create themselves. Where there is a will, there is a way. But we don't block people with us, and you could help Styrian with different investments. How many times has it been said here, how much help will all be given to the Styria capital and beyond! Now, if this is the only thing you've brought in, 300 jobs, which is 2 thousand 700 less than was said in the beginning, then it's quite sad and the results in the elections are appropriate. However, as has already been said, most Members supported this law, as it has been explicitly stressed, and we also believed that this is actually a project that will bring 3,000 jobs. We now see that this is only 10 per cent, but the key question is when will be the next 2 000 700 jobs. If we get an answer to this question in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I don't think we're going to be having any further problems. But when we see that only 10 percent of what Styrian promised is said to come in the coming years. Do you know what was said to come in the next few years? What companies have promised even when they have built certain industrial facilities with European funds, and then because they have not implemented the plans and have applied those requirements contained in the tenders, how much and how many jobs they will create, the money has to be returned. The investor placed the condition that by 1 July a building permit should be issued, as a result, the project was very hasty and examined all possible locations more than apparently very superficially. Some of the words spoken by Minister of Agriculture Dejan Židan in the Turnout, which took place on 7 June 2017, asked whether the Government had actually offered Magna other possible locations, replied: "I don't know this, because I never talked to Magno myself. However, I know with what information both the Minister of Economy and the President of the Government have come to the Government, that this is agreed with Magno that the only possible location is this and that this is a priority project for the Government. I asked myself several times if other locations were possible, they told me not to.” In the end, we will come to the conclusion that the Minister of the Jews was obviously not informed of the whole matter. Whether someone in the government deliberately said that there were no other options, or whether local communities were not even questioned. The Mayor of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica sends e-mails to all the mayors in all municipalities about land exchange because of the law we have. Clearly, though, it was too difficult to send what happened if Styrian was to be helped in this way, which was the right thing to do, and the Styrian mayors. Do you have a location? We need such and such a location with such infrastructure. I am sure that if Mayor Kidrič's Mr Leskovar said that they had the right location, he would have responded by then. I am sure that today we would not have these discussions here in the National Assembly in this way. It is a location that is said to be in Kidrič, which could be used without the purchase of land, as it is in the Slovenian National Forests, and it is a location that is also close to the motorway, as well as the railway, but it is only a fraction longer than the airport than the location in Hoča. However, we believe that there were many more, perhaps more suitable locations from an agricultural point of view. But, as they say, there are no coincidences, there are no coincidences in politics, I believe there are no coincidences here either; but there is behind it. What it is, who will benefit from it, will in time prove to be. The Minister of Agriculture must have been so aware of the issue of the loss of the best agricultural land as well as the possibility of replacement land and had sufficient time to express his opinion in particular on the location of the project. Therefore, a new problematic situation has emerged in the media in recent days, namely the problem of drinking water consumption from the Maribor water supply for painting purposes to be set by Magna. In these dry days, when the consumption of water for households is limited, we wonder, of course, whether this water network can withstand such a need for water at all and, above all, whether it can provide it. In order not to be misunderstood, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we advocate the promotion of foreign investment – peaceful news you go to the website, write the results of the government 2004-2008, go under foreign investment, look at things and compare them with the years from 2014 onwards – but we advocate quality jobs in a way that does not change the legal basis for individual projects, but that the area is regulated comprehensively and in a way that allows all investors, both domestic and foreign, under the same conditions to invest. However, it is of course essential that all available sites be examined, with priority given to those already used or used for industrial use. So once again, in the SDS we support this investment, we want to see that in the end the realisation is what it was promised to be, that is, 3,000 jobs. Now I don't know who will be responsible for this if it doesn't, because the legislation was about to change because of the number that was promised. But if that's not the case, you'll have to ask for responsibility. The result is clear, as no one is responsible for any matter in Slovenia. We have warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we will continue to warn. However, this could certainly be a project where everyone could step together, it is in everyone's interest to create new quality jobs without being established by the State, but that the State is establishing such an environment for the economy, so that the economy can only produce them. However, if there is a negative attitude in the local environment – and not to comment on the survey where the participation was, I think about 15% – to explore other options. In short, we regret that these recommendations will not be supported because we have written exactly what can be done quickly and what the Government should have done before it has decided and before Magni has obviously offered one and only location – God knows why, we will find out once in the future – in order to choose a different option and all of these discussions that we have on both the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Agriculture should not be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u94	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today we are considering a proposal for a recommendation to the Government regarding the alleged inaction of the Minister of Agriculture with regard to the Magna project. According to the proposal, the Government should re-examine other sites for the implementation of the project, with priority already being given to industrial use but currently abandoned locations in the selection process. It is interesting how different interpretations of the rules of procedure for political accounting, which are usually unfounded, are repeated. However, we have seen another phenomenon that we are witnessing in this mandate. In fact, the Government is preparing a legal basis for the implementation of a very important project for the country and a particular region, for which all, coalition and opposition, firstly, agree that it is necessary, important, that it will have certain positive consequences for the domestic economy, but when the implementation of these projects begins, it will begin to interfere with all possible measures to stop the project, while at the same time always listening to one and the same footnotes, so that the project does not oppose its support and similar. Such conduct could only be described as duality, for it is very difficult for us to understand that a law that has been almost unanimously adopted is now subject to such sharp contradictions by those who have contributed to the unanimous support of the law. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the Ministry of Agriculture has pointed out loud enough that this is the best agricultural land and that there is a need to find a broad consensus in the search for substitute land, which has also been obtained. Since in the Desus Group we do not agree with the proposaler that the Minister of the Jews was inactive in this case, we have not supported the proposal for recommendations on the home working body. We are also insisting on this decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u95	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much for the word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the introduction, I would like to point out in particular the two problems which the point under consideration has. In particular, the title of the recommendation is the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the inactivity of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Dejan Židan at the loss of the best agricultural land in the Magna project. Only the recommendation to be adopted by the National Assembly under this title is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommended that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia examine other available sites for the implementation of the Magna project, with priority being given to the industrial use of the sites currently abandoned. The problem is already in contradiction between the title itself and the proposal itself, and the fact is that, on behalf of the parliamentary group on the Agriculture Committee at one of the meetings, I have proposed a decision, namely that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to make a list of available facilities in existing business and economic zones as soon as possible, and to prepare an inter-sectorally coordinated set of possible new business and economic locations in a way that does not interfere with the best agricultural land and other protected areas. So the proposal that we have put forward on the home working body by the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, and this proposal is mag. Dejan Jedhan also supported it. Therefore, to report in this recommendation that something was wrong and that this final decision or recommendation departs from what, for example, Minister Židan was supposed to advocate, does not actually hold, because he supported the same decision at the time on his mother's working body, which is practically identical to the one we are discussing today. Together, we all have another important problem in this – both the proposaler of the SDS Group and the MEPs of the Social Democrats, which we proposed at that time also to examine other sites. In fact, the law was adopted in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the following title, namely the Act on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. The law explicitly speaks of the location in the area of Hoče - Slivnica. This made it impossible for us to work actively in any other locations after the adoption of the law, and here is the point before which the National Assembly is usually before when we get the law by emergency procedure. Of course, it is accepted and then we find out how to resolve the situation if it is possible at the proposed location that we are talking about today or at which the proceedings are taking place, but perhaps it is not possible to close the procedure, as the investment was intended to be realised. The fact that this law has been passed is also certain to be known by the applicants with such content, since they have also voted in favour in large part or at least some Members have not opposed it. Such a recommendation, which we are discussing today, should not come into the procedure at all, since the specific law was adopted in a very clear way, which is the location that is appropriate. However, I would like to point out that, of course, such a way of enacting laws is certainly an extremely large limit to the fact that this investment can be implemented in Slovenia at all. It will certainly have to be very serious to consider if there are other options for amending this law in that case and to allow, if nothing else, at least implementation in locations that may be across Slovenia, of course do not affect, for example, the best agricultural land or cause other reservations that would, say, prevent such an investment. But I do hope that all Members and, in particular, Members of the Group of Social Democrats have led to the adoption of the law, in particular, to the fact that we are striving for economic growth and for new jobs and that there is also a need to ensure that economic recovery is as effective as possible and, of course, to introduce as many quality programmes as possible and thus to ensure that jobs are as good as possible. Slovenia is certainly a promising country, both in the field of economy and tourism, and if we link it to good agricultural care, then it is the programme under which everyone in Slovenia is sure to sign up very quickly and we agree. In doing so, however, I would like to recall one fact which we have also adopted in the National Assembly, namely the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, in which we have determined that, at the moment when there is a large degree of unemployment, the Government can decide and take action for this problem area, which is, in particular, assisted by funds and other tax measures in order to address unemployment as soon as possible. And Maribor has this status with a wider environment; therefore, Maribor has the status of a problem area with high unemployment and let me remind you that in one of the first programmes for this area we have designed a solution to Maribor's 69 million euros, with a wider environment, so that it can effectively save unemployment. This from the very decision that Maribor with its surroundings needs to ensure this is not yet realized to a large extent. This is the one, probably a key flaw, that some of the zones that were once occupied with production capacities – and Maribor was an industrial city and has an extremely high level of knowledge and also had extremely high-quality programs, which were all highly overrated and, of course, made Maribor then with the environment in such a position that today we are all talking about being satisfied if any program comes from abroad. We've almost destroyed our own before, and we can almost say, systematically. Therefore, it is also a matter of realising this decision to provide the problem area with €69 million as soon as possible, and this will certainly avoid what the Agricultural-Agriculture Chamber has also pointed out in this case, so that the bulldozer principle does not apply in Slovenia when an investor comes and then attempts to provide the best agricultural land for this investment through the slightest resistance line. This is something that must certainly not happen to us in the future, because we have very few of these surfaces and are very limited and not least protected by the Constitution. In so doing, with these facts and shortcomings, certainly which the law itself has adopted, we would also like to recall the following fact, which is enshrined in Article 5 of the Law, which defines that it is a strategic investment, but the law stipulates that a strategic investment must create at least a thousand jobs in the Hoče - Slivnica municipality under this Act. I can say that we will be very closely monitoring in the Group of Members whether this actual realization, a thousand jobs, will actually occur. Once again, this is a binding dictatorship in Article 5 of the existing law, and I reiterate that sometimes it is necessary to adopt laws, despite some good faith, that this project, which is written down in the law, can later be a very big problem to realize. In view of the fact that the Committee, which was born to deal with this recommendation, has decided that the procedure for adopting this recommendation has been completed, I can say that, of course, we have voted on the Committee for this Decision, today we are only joining this conclusion, which has just been adopted on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The word has been given by Mr Ivan Prelog, to prepare themselves for the Mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Ksenija Krenjak Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to all present! Allow me to read from the Slovenian Army's catalogue of techniques a description of the ground vehicle, which is used until recently. This is a Mercedes-Benz G 270 cd field vehicle. The vehicle is intended for the transport of teams and equipment. It is used for convoy escorts and is equipped as a command vehicle with modern communication systems. Class G was designed primarily for field use by Mercedes-Benz. Although G means G in the symbol of this car Gelände, that is to say German terrain, it is also consistent with the name of the Austrian town of Graz. 40 years ago it was founded there on the initiative of Daimler, who wanted to provide a suitable means of transport for German and recently Slovenian soldiers. Steyr-Daimler-Puch, which produced Class G, also has other links to Slovenia, since Prlek Janez Puch from Sakuška to Juršinci in Slovenian Gorica. He went to Graz and made an incredible career from a locksmith's apprentice to a factory. Steyr-Daimler-Puch, Janez Puch, is in the world of motors and cars as an innovator and entrepreneur name worth all respect. The Puch brand was also the basis for the later entry of Daimler into a joint venture called Steyr-Daimler-Puch AG in Graz, which was taken over by Magna Holding AG in 1998. So this is the same Magno, which supplied excellent ground vehicles to the Slovenian Army, and today some say that the same Magna, which was good enough for the Slovenian Army, will destroy today's most fertile agricultural land, which will even violently take away farmers for the purpose of building a toxic paint shop. Let me tell you that in the case of Magne, this is not about the toxic industry and second-class jobs. Magna is a highly successful international brand of the world's highest development grade and operates at 321 production sites in 29 countries with a total of 160 000 employees and an annual turnover of 36 billion US dollars, which is approaching Slovenia's GDP. The entire world has 102 development centres and works with a circus of 50 universities. So Magna is a company that follows the global trends of the fourth industrial revolution of electric and hybrid drives, new materials and requirements for a substantial reduction of CO2 in exhaust. However, all the discussions at the selected location took place in the waters of various political interests and were open. Why does no one say that we have turned about 100,000 hectares of agricultural land into buildings in Slovenia over the last 25 years? So it represents only one thousand hectares and because it is a land in an area where the development of industry and the logistics centre in the mid-60s was envisaged and in the 1990s, the location of the construction of the automotive industry is a logical decision. The current government is the first in recent years, at least to seek with all consent and state aid to wet the arrival of this car giant. In this case it is the first major real greenfield industrial project in Slovenia. Magna is a company that builds so-called smart factories based on its many know-how centres and scientific institutes, which collaborate with world-renowned research institutes and many universities. This is why it is incomprehensible that the opinion created in Slovenian society is that it comes to Slovenia with the work of dirty production. It would be extremely irresponsible to miss such an opportunity, since it is not expected that any capital firm would then ever want to come to this country again. And this. Former Maribor mayor Dr. Alojz Križman, former dean of the Faculty of Technology in Maribor, then rector of the University of Maribor, who also acted as a development engineer and as head of technology development, or a deserving professor, sent me a letter yesterday as a Maribor MEP concerning Magna. Since I believe that the Slovenian public needs to know about this, please allow me to read it in a somewhat short form, because it clearly shows what it is about. I quote: “After talking with the director of the Maribor water supply, Mr Burnac, I note that today’s article in one of the Slovenian newspapers is a major manipulation. The actual situation is as follows. Maribor uses 13 million cubic metres of water per year for today’s water supply. At the time I was mayor, we pumped a circus of 20 million cubic metres of water a year, because at the time, most of the industry was still operating and there were much fewer circular systems in use. To deceive this officer, he used a unit of letters instead of a unit of cubic meters. Of course, he did not mention that one cubic metre of water has thousands of litres, which would mean that the Maribor water pipeline draws 13 billion litres of water annually. Secondly, Magna is supposed to need 100 million gallons of water a year in her new establishment. A hundred million gallons [100 million L] of water corresponds mathematically to 100,000 cubic meters [100 million L] of water. This quantity represents the circus 0.8 per cent of all the annual quantities of water pumped up by Maribor. So it is a question of not more than one percent of the current quantity consumed. But if we talk about the total capacity that we've been pumping back in my day when industry was still running, it's somewhere between 0.5 and 0.6 percent of the water that was pumped. Therefore, water will not run out in Maribor and it is a perfidious manipulation of this officer. At the current price of water, however, probably none of the investors will pay more water at high consumption and will certainly build their own circular system, but not because the water is not enough, but because of costs. It is therefore more than obvious to mislead the public. Of course I should've reacted to Arso first. However, due to the insufficient integration of experienced engineering personnel into the project, it is constantly manipulated, as political manipulation reaches simple people, when they still believe such presentations after the old practice. I'm also giving you today's article. Nice greeting, Aloise Krizman." End of quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Prepare Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar and Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard a great deal in the views of the parliamentary groups, on the one hand, of some who support this investment, on the other hand, those who strongly oppose it. But the undeniable fact is that the location of Magna’s investment is based on the specific requirements of the investment in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. On Monday at the point of the questions sent, the Minister clearly replied to what procedure these specific requirements for this investment were followed, that the size, equipment and other environmental constraints were also taken into account, and that there were also 9 potential sites in the verification process. Among them were demolished areas in Maribor Municipality, including in my municipality Ruše, where I would have wanted this location to be, as the Nitroika Ruše factory lost 2 000 500 jobs. We have a location, but I believe that on the basis of this specification, which is, this location is inappropriate, because the existing facility is falling apart as a house of spirits, but we are actually going to work with the local community to re-establish this degraded area into an economic area that will be a great pride for all of us together. I won't even list the other locations. This was also stressed by the Secretary of State on the home working body. As has been heard today, the location of Kidričeva has also been checked, where the mayor is from SDS fellow Members of Parliament. I do not understand something; it was simply presented today that investment is harmful to human health, to the environment and, on the other hand, we support new jobs, but the location in Kidrič is more appropriate. Why? I don't know if all this information is true, but Kidrichev's location is one kilometer from an existing location, but it should be approached here to change the municipal spatial plan and it also says here that you should cut down 130 hectares of forest in the immediate vicinity of two settlements. At an existing location, which is so much talk, it will cut up 4 hectares of forest. I don't know or I don't get it. In fact, the ministry decided on this location, and we simply adopted the law, and there is no going back here. I believe we would be talking about this investment today anyway. Why? If the Minister of Agriculture did not agree with this investment on these, we will say that good or best agricultural land would come from the opposition, and foreign investors are blocked. On the other hand, today we have a situation where the Ministry has decided that this investment is actually welcome, that adequate new or alternative agricultural land should be provided, and this investment is not opposed, which I believe is welcome for the Municipality of Maribor, Hote - Slivnica or – I will say more broadly – for Podravje and even Pomurje. Today, it has also been mentioned that this is a political decision and that the Minister has made a political decision in that investment, that the mayors have repeatedly addressed it and that it intervenes. But on the board he said, quote: “Manytimes the mayors, such and different, want to come to me: Minister, we would like to talk to you about the OPN and such and other gabarites. I won't let that happen. And if this is such a question, it is impossible to negotiate with me about it.” That's exactly what it is. Even as a fellow Member, I wanted to talk, just talk about certain investments, and there was no listening, and I could simply attach it. Thus, in a specific case, it is only a matter of professional decision-making. I also stress that in Slovenia legislation is such that it is on the protection side of the best agricultural land, which is also attributed to us in the OECD. Personally, I think that such a decision as has been made, which is also confirmed by almost most Members, is correct. I also believe that when the investor decides – I sincerely hope that all relevant permits will be obtained – he will make an investment in a way that will protect the environment well and that there will be no major air and water discharges and that there will be no harm to human health. Nor can it be overlooked that this is one of the most modern greenfield investments. Podravje and Pomurje belong to one of the regions with the highest unemployment rate. Here is the unemployment rate far above the Slovenian average, circus 15 percent. That is why every new job is still necessary, and I would like to emphasise that quality jobs. Let me touch on the construction of trade centres that were in Slovenia in 2007. There has never been such a debate at that time as to what the impact will be, how it will be done, what it will do, and I believe or know that trade centres have been built on the best agricultural land. I think that by these debates, by putting in constitutional assessments, by stopping the proceedings we are rejecting investors and giving, I will say, an inconvenient signal outside of foreign investors who are familiar with Slovenia as one with a very quality labour force, with good people, with good potential, and we think that this should be considered a great pride by all. I have to say that we seem to be really dual; on the one hand, we want new jobs, and on the other hand, we are doing our best to stop all procedures for obtaining these permits. I would like the procedures for obtaining building permits to be rapid, efficient, quality, of course, taking into account all the professional criteria necessary in this regard. But the way we've taken it from Magne's investment, which we've been talking about for over six months, I don't think it's right. I'm afraid we're going to have a domino effect and Magne's investment will really not be in Slovenia. They're going to Hungary. Where will they build in Hungary? I think it's on the best agricultural land. Well, foreigners are likely to do it in a different way. They want investors, and it's easy for me, I think we're gonna have to do something about this place. It really saddens me that we can't put our heads together, just as we have brought them together in the rules of procedure, that we are dealing with ourselves, too, this is our problem, and it is simply that we all find the best potential together to save Podravja, including Pomura. Let me also mention that there have been so many speeches that this location is not intended to be good, that they are indeed the best agricultural land. This location was planned for the production zone a long time ago. It was foreseen in the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023. At that time, the Government supported this resolution and confirmed this location for the Oreh logistics centre on 12 October 2006. I don't know. In fact, this location is now, the Minister of Agriculture has done everything possible to provide replacement land. Thus, these recommendations are simply unacceptable and I believe that in the future they will also be in all other investments, so that replacement land will be sought if it is not possible to do so in degraded areas. Indeed, it could only be touched by the need for these degraded areas, which we have to look for, to make a list of the free capacities and actually on these lands or on these existing sites to look for potential; I think, to offer them to future investors, because that is the only way we will have less work to do together. Last but not least, let me finish. In Magna, everyone will have the opportunity to work; the whole Podravje, the entire pomurje area, even if it is likely that someone from the capital will apply for the invitation; simply everyone who wants to work and will meet the conditions will have this opportunity. This is certainly good, and as a Member, I am certainly working for economic growth, new jobs, tourism development, which will also benefit all of us, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u101	Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar has the floor to prepare Violeta Tomić and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much! Dear colleagues, the President! I hope that today, when we came here, we all wondered for what purpose – I hope with good. I hope that, in order to really support the investment, we will really take on everything that my predecessors have said in their views and in our debate that we are for jobs, that we are for economic breakthroughs, for economic growth. That we're also for cooperation. I really hope so, although on the one hand I'm very worried, because some of you were just saying things that limit to pure manipulation. Limiting essentially to manipulation perhaps for such or other purposes, perhaps political gain of points. I'm sorry. I wouldn't want that. I would like to see that we can step together, that we can work together to find solutions, that will lead to the realization of the whole thing, and not that we use data one way or another. I'm sorry. But it is possible that in any way, we can turn them into positive, but we can also reverse them differently; what we somehow have in our genes is regret. We always see what is not going on or what might be wrong and what is not, but we are less successful there when we have to look for solutions to overcome or find certain solutions. I really wish we could be like that, no matter where we come from or where we come from. If we were on the ground, many of you, we would see that this cooperation has been very good and successful in both the economy and agriculture at least in this case. Both the economy and agriculture have worked very hard on the ground to come up with solutions for every single issue, for every single problem. Those who were there, we witnessed this, regrettably, that some of you were not there, where we could see it, and today we would not deceive many who listen to us, because it was not there, and that activity should be even greater or even better. She was, unfortunately, also with the help of some of you, people had information like this and different. And I'm not going to say that they were manipulated, that they were misled, but it would be right to say that there were alternative locations, they were talked about, they were on the table, but unfortunately they were inappropriate, including Kidrica's. And Kidric's. Kidric's in the water protection area. Those who know where Kidrièva is and those who have ever driven by — I hope that my esteemed colleague Jean too, because he has debated so convincingly and that he knows that this is near Nature 2000, that he knows that it is near the water protection areas, that he knows that it is 130 hectares of forest to be cut down, that he knows that the proximity of the settlement is completely inappropriate in relation to the location that it is; therefore, that he also knows that the environmental impacts can be much worse in the Kidrièev area than in the area that is currently – that is, what we are talking about – in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. And I hope you also know that all those who have shown any interest have been involved in this whole story of the project. Unfortunately, the initiatives were a little later, but they were. When we talk about the Roggo forest, once again, I agree, 66 hectares of forest is huge, there is a lot, but the civil initiative has been cooperative, in cooperation with the ministries, both agricultural and economic, they have come up with appropriate solutions. However, you know, every human activity has its limits, and it is only right that we all move within the bounds of real and acceptable and that we are also prepared to compromise. I think that compromise has been reached on the question of the Rogogos Forest, given the number of cuts envisaged. In the current situation, we have 4.6 hectares of 66. I think it's a success both for the initiative and for us who live there. Unfortunately, something for something like it's in every story. Here's the one we weigh. Normally, I agree; we consider, however, that we respect environmental standards, that we do not agree to everything without serious and thorough reflection, but what we currently have is a solution that will not compromise all the functions of this forest, which appear not to endanger the living conditions and quality of life of us who live there. The four hectares; and it is sad that among those who debate so widely the meaning of this forest, there are also those who in the past have also intervened in the area of this forest and who have cut it down, probably with less bad news in view of how bitterly they have advocated it. As for other references concerning economic operators, as regards cooperation, as well as mayors, the Mayors are from different options. [[…]] I'm sorry that some people are so easily abused that you send them into one or another option, even though they're not there. But the mayors, including mixed colors, have very clearly and resolutely said in several forums, whether it be economic forums, whether it be their own, whether it be forums in the region itself, to support the whole issue, whether those who somehow after the division of their territory in terms of economic activity are listed more in areas that are agricultural or rural also support. Because they are aware that this will not only have an effect on their congregation, but will have an effect on Podravje as a whole, but also a large part, let's say to Celje, the whole of Pomurje. That's why! And they supported it! And they also said they were willing to participate in the search for replacement land in the next stages of the project. They explicitly supported it, regardless of their color. This was also supported by economists. I've been listening here to listen to the economy. Not just today, I hear it a lot; let's listen to the economists, let's listen to them. Did we listen to them in this story? In fact, at the Podravska Forum in Slovenska Bistrica, all economists said: “We support this story. This story is also an opportunity for us, for our development, for our cooperation." Did we hear them? I hope we did. But at least in the case of the Magne project, we haven't taken them into account yet. That is what we will be able to say when we have a factory in the congregation of Hoče - Slivnica. We stress this all the time; we will have this in the congregation of Hoče - Slivnica. That's what they'll have here, in Slovenia! This is important in the final stage. Unfortunately, other areas were not suitable. They will probably be for other investments; other foreign investments, other foreign investors that will come. That's important. We should talk about this. About who else can help in any way, so that someone else can come to Slovenia, not looking for ways, why not come, or where we can help him, especially to show him that he can't come, or what else we can do so that he can't come. I don't think that's the right way. All together, we've shown this once before, when we supported the marriage, we showed that we support it, but we can't do it from our own skin. Now that we don't have much time left, the clock is already moving towards twelve, we should show even more that we know together how to find the right solutions, that we know together that Magna will be here, that she won't have Magna Plan B, that she won't go on the ground and talk to our mayors. This is very encouraging, but, you know, it probably goes also to create its own opinion of how realistic the possibility of actually coming to the realization of the project is. And that she could say at one point: "Look, I'm sorry. We also have to act businessly, we have orders, we have to set the factory to a certain date so that we can fulfill what we have committed to the contract." But are we aware of this? We're here talking about jobs, every job counts. That's what I said when we adopted the law. Every job counts. But they are in stages, indeed, but it begins with one: it begins with three hundred, and it will end; and I desire my heart, when Magna is standing, with three thousand indeed. And with a highly skilled staff, because production will be highly technologically completed. We all know that, but we still want to do everything, so I don't know, but maybe we'll drive to another location. I don't want to. I wish we had the location of Magna as a socially responsible company, as world multinationals in Slovenia. I want it to be in the congregation of Hôce - Slivnica. And I believe that each of us can contribute to the fact that we really have it there and that we can really tell people once, look, we did give you something, we gave you a chance. Because, you know, Magna is already — and this has been wrongly said that she does not accept requests or that she is not looking for workers. He's looking for them! You know, she's working with the Maribor Employment Service to get the right staff. She participated in a job fair, engaged Slovenians, an employee of her company, who daily contacts our people to get as much of the appropriate personnel as possible, which are our people. He's trying, you know, he's trying very hard, but apparently not enough. [[…]] Are we trying so hard? Is he? I hope so, and I hope that we can call it that we have done everything and that we have all succeeded and that Magna will be with 1. 1. really started working on the first car. It's not ice cream, it's world brands. I hope so, and that we can say then, we've done everything together to make the project here, we've done a lot for the people. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u103	Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'll start slowly, too. After this last implementation, however, I am at least 98% convinced that it was not a professional decision that you refer to, but only a political decision where Magna Steyr will stand: either in Hotch, or in Maribor, or in Kidrič. The SMC's delegation was stronger together with the SMC's MP and it reached the SMC Minister's office to select them. That it did not choose Maribor – the wrong mayor, although I do not know where you are Members of the SMC from Maribor, but you have lost. Kidrich's would certainly not be politically acceptable; the SDS member is from Kidrič and the SDS mayor is from Kidrič. And I'll start with this last one: listen to the economy. And you're running away, aren't you?Oh, And Mr. Akrapovich has been waiting for nine years, and he's going abroad!? So much for listening to the economy. For some of the right areas on the best agricultural land, state financial assistance and others – thanks for your attention, go abroad. So much for taking care of the economy that everyone's on the same boat. They're not! The Magne case is typical evidence because it has a typical lex specialis. That there is no law on regional and economic promotion or any other law with an already existing name is good enough or any new law that would put it all together on one of those things you say to it: Slovenia, it is Slovenia. No, no, no. It is the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. Pika. Simple as that. And this implementation was purely what it was – politically: politics has decided and that is it. That's why we're upset about the transfer of the minister of the Jews. Minister of the Jews, 7. 6. – the reason why we made these recommendations – “I know, however, what information both the Minister of Economic Affairs and the President of the Government have come to the government; namely that Magna is agreed that the only possible location is this and that this is a priority project for the government.” Minister – I didn't know anything before. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Affairs says that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is involved all the time. I mean, if the Minister doesn't know what's happening to him at the Ministry of Agriculture, there's another big problem, but it also shows his performance – she's hiding behind the profession, she's decided by the profession! The profession decided that 100 hectares of the best agricultural land could be written off?Oh, my God! If this is the profession called the profession at the Ministry of Agriculture, not at the Ministry of Economy, respected, then I repeat once again that this profession is not worth 5 kilos of bread – the whole. She's not worth it. You can go straight to the employment office or maybe a job looking for this super company in Hotch - Slivnica, Magno. The profession said that the best I think these 100 hectares fall below 8% of the best agricultural land we still have in Slovenia. [[…]] And this profession at the Ministry of Agriculture said to the Minister of Agriculture: “With ease.” If this is the profession, then the minister has another problem; not only the political one that he does not control his field, but also the professional one. That's why we're here; the minister says we don't know anything, she's made a decision, and we all know how the procedures are going, that the other ministries concerned must be informed or coordinated with the other ministries. Now I hope that the government will meet with Minister Restoration and Minister Židan, who has ever informed anyone of what is going on. Did the minister come and say: “Minister Dejan, listen, Mayor of SMC, Municipality of Hoče – Slivnica, the right address – do not touch. Even so, you will get your client who will build this painting room, and agricultural land, which has been emerging lately, will also be able to be speculative if they are not in the future stages for this company, but will go to other things, because there are already some other things that are supposed to stand here." Then the next thing, environmental consensus, how is this location really the best. Yes, of course, it is best if the environmental consensus is written – who? – SMC candidate in former national elections! This is this top-notch expert who said that Kemis is a top-notch safe company, there on Vrhnika, and then he smokes and no one knows which poisons go into the air and into the ground and into the water. Same expert, but SMC's party again. Then someone will say there's no coincidence! Ah, of course! Well, maybe for any Member who is here for the first time, but for those who have been following for a little longer not only local but also national policy, but no one will paint us with just coincidences everywhere, everywhere, everywhere, in the SMC. As a proposaler, I have already said at the meeting of my mother's working body that if the Ministry's response here was to select a wider location for the establishment of a production zone in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, that if the municipality of Kidričeva were to write here, 100 hectares of circus size, the following criteria would be taken into account to make it exactly the same. Apart from probably where the mayor is probably SDS, it would not be environmentally acceptable because he wrote an environmental consensus for SMC candidate in the national elections. But if we're back in the profession, this same gentleman just said a little bit, but maybe some of the negative effects on the groundwater will be. And now you're saying that the Wills are good, because it's going to affect the groundwater, but Kidric's isn't good, because it would also affect the water protection area. Yes, what kind of profession is this – two of the same problems, and for one is a plus, and for one is a minus in the issue of environmental consent? All the other criteria are exactly the same. You all speak: an opportunity not only for one congregation, but also for the congregation of Kidričeva and Maribor. But both Kidrič and Maribor would be subject to the same criteria: the direct proximity of the motorway, the possibility of joining the rail network, the proximity of the airport, which even Magna representatives say has to do with them, because they will still be on the highway – at least that's how I was informed. A settlement area providing labour. What is the difference between Hočami - Slivnica, Račami, Kidričev, Maribor, if there are two kilometers of difference? What is the difference in this labour force, which is derived only from Hotch-Slovnica and everyone else is deprived. Environmental criteria which address the acceptability of an environmental intervention. As has already been said, why will Hotze - Slivnica be better where the mayor of SMC was working for the SMC candidate at the elections for the National Assembly. This is the only positive environmental criterion. Economic criteria – questionable. Settlement criteria – you will also have to decide here. The predecessor said that the proximity of the settlement of Kidrič is inappropriate, but we are looking at the articles, and how is the settlement structure in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica almost on the threshold of the new company. The next thing, "we all fold together." This is what we always hear when the left political part of the policy advocates its decisions. “We must all stand together” – read: you must support us, but otherwise you are against us. If the right hand suggests anything, let’s say, let’s put our species together — what do we get? Against, here or in words. So much for this 25-year repetition of the left political authorities "come together, let's step together". But we know who the father of such a policy was: we are in power, if not us, we will still be. Here it is served not by the United Left, but by the Party of the Modern Center, because we all have problems. They want to be liberal, they're social, they're socialist, and they don't even know, and then things like this come along. The next thing that bothers us with the Minister of the Jews, because we are talking about him today in particular – in addition to saying that he is sometimes hiding behind the profession and sometimes putting his political decision at the forefront – is how suddenly the solutions have been miraculously found. They were gone before. Rogo forest, Rinka, Ptuj poultry. All of a sudden! Probably not on the basis of profession, but probably on the basis of political pressure – they said, “OK, politics is stronger, we will give up on all these pressures.” I know it's my turn to be a colleague Tomić, and then I'll be like, "How passionately we've been to defend how politicians, how miserable, how low-minded we are" In fact, there's nothing wrong with thinking about it, and you make it public. [[…]] You know, it's kind of hard for me to change your mind, but you don't say that. We said we believed in that fast procedure, the 13, 3 weeks when the phase of the law took place through the National Assembly because it was burning because the mayor was on a low start, that he would start preparing barely the UN, and we heard that everything was great, they wanted to be chosen. Then we just came up with this information: 9 locations, and who's the mayor, and who's the counselor here and there, who's the guy who writes the environmental consensus for the real mayors and won't write it for the wrong mayors and so on. Then it's the next thing. Well, we've been to locations – there was no interesting location. It's very interesting here, too. Today we listen for a while: “Yes, because some locations have been given”, but we have the chronology of another, obviously, most interesting locations, from which they sent a letter just before the presenters that they have a location, and they said at the Ministry of Economy, we receive the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's response that the location is fixed, but that we can still meet. That's that shit in my pocket. You knew exactly where it was going to cost, and everything else you didn't care about: whether the forest would be, or whether the agricultural land would be, who owned it, you didn't care. Now you're looking for arguments about why it's best, but you're saying that Mayor Kidrič's should change the O.N., Wants - Slivnica doesn't even have it yet, you should give an environmental consensus that you probably wouldn't get because you wrote it by Mr. SMC, I repeat it again, and so on. In short, it is always that “we are always right”. If we are wrong, see the previous article "we are right". And that's where it bothers us. However, we are concerned by the fact that Minister Židan refers to expertise when he refers to the protection of agricultural land, but it works exclusively politically. And yes, we know, the minister is a political function. Yeah, we know. But then let him admit it was a political and not professional decision. That's all he has to admit! Not that he said he didn't know anything after we said how, because it says you knew, but we hid behind the waist a little. Hypocrisy! It's hypocrisy! Don't admit what you knew. We said that okay, then we accepted in good faith – otherwise I personally did not support this law – but we listened to those arguments that were so super fantastic and we said, as I said in the introduction, that it should be, even though it goes through everything. But it was said that we would talk about agricultural land, and then we listened to how nothing was arranged. “Everything will be good in the environmental field” – then we have found that, of course, it will be good in the environmental field because the right person will write an environmental consensus. So we talked about an economic vision of 3 thousand 300, 3 thousand 400 was the last point, and we believed. Now we don't believe it! Because not only are there more and more Indians, but there is evidence that this project was forced into the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. On a political basis. The other mayors were the wrong colors. The Mariborians could go to Tezno or to Hoča - Slivnica, as if the inhabitants of Hoč - Slivnice went to Maribor or to Kidričeva. We're talking about rank, I think, 20 kilometers if I don't mind a little geography. What we're saying is that the whole of Styria will be solved with this project. Yes, but it would also be saved in Kidrichev and Maribor. And of course, because politics has decided, this project is real, it has been presented to the investor as well, and everything else is what it is called, and we will solve "this later" from the beginning. When I went to Mr. Krajnc in that treatment and asked him if they even had an O.N.O. in Hotch - Slivnica, he said: "No, but we will get it." And I said: “We fought for the UN for seven years in the congregation of Sevnica. What do you even know what it brings behind it?" “We will easily settle it, because that is how politics has decided.” The profession will cover it from behind, but this profession was politically set up in this case. It bothers us! It's hypocrisy for one project, and everyone else has problems in law, in DN, in the DN, in the DN, and in environmental consensus-building I don't know what. But someone liked to put a project on the pedestal and say it was the biggest investment. It was said earlier, it's a project of the decade. And I'm gonna ask you a few questions, then what's the second track? For centuries? I hope not, because then it's ten times more flawed than the Magne project in this area. And this is where the role of Minister of the Jews hurts. Not only did one speak and the other work, it even spoke very differently – I did not know, she knew the profession. That's what's bothering us, so that's the address of the recommendation. It is not a debate project Magna yes or no; the problem is because it was going into this project with closed eyes, because the main political players have made a deal, we will do it because we will take care of matters, in the end, if the matter is carried out, perhaps in any way politically or otherwise. This is a problematic policy which we oppose in the SDS Group, not a project. We are opposed to this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u105	Replica Mrs. Xenia Root Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear colleague! You know it's a political decision, that's your interpretation, not mine. I'm sorry you misunderstood me. You also misunderstood me if you think this is a project of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. You know, the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica is indeed in Podravje, and is also in Slovenia. And given that Podravje has had unemployment over Slovenia’s average – unfortunately for many years. At the end of 2016, for example, there were almost 17,000 unemployed in the region, of which more than 40% were in Maribor and around. You know, this is Slovenia, also this – Maribor. That I don't give up on Pomurje. So you must have misunderstood me when you thought I was just talking about the congregation I came from. But I am talking about the Magne project and why this Slovenian project is by no means a project of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, which you have just discussed. And one more thing. One job in Magna is provided for 3 indirect jobs, i.e. the multiplier effect of Magne or Magne investment in the environment. These effects will be known in the Slovenian framework, not only in the framework of the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. So I'm sorry if I was too specific. I hope I've made this very clear. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. I'm not against you or us or anyone. You know, in my head, I don't separate between mine and yours. Sorry or thank God, no. I'm sorry that in some heads this exists, not in mine. And if you get that feeling, I'm sorry, you know. That wasn't my purpose. I work very well with everyone, and I also put a lot of effort into doing good with everyone, and I don't care what side they are and what color they are. So it just matters to me what the proposals are, what the content is. In fact, I support solutions, not colors, not ad persona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u107	Once again, Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u108	Of course, respectable predecessor! But, as we say, I understand that this is not only a project called Hoče - Slivnica, but it is a project that will be in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. And when you talk about this unemployment in Podravje – read: also Maribor, Hoče - Slivnica, as well as Kidričeva and so on Yes, they are Slovenia. [[…]] They're not? But the project was selected politically, which proves all things: the mayor of the right species, environmental consensus was written by a SMC man and so on. So don't tell me it's not politics. Politics has made up their minds, but they're hiding behind the expertise. As a result, it also gives half-false environmental consent, where the real mayor is and a political decision needs to be covered. And it doesn't matter if we're talking about environmental impacts, groundwater and air here, and that's okay, and that's not okay in Kidric's thinking about it, even though it's the same problem. It's this hypocrisy and duplicity. Somewhere in the world, it is ok to cover a political decision, but somewhere else, this profession is not prepared to cover a political decision because, on the other hand, there is a wrong policy – in your opinion. So don't talk about who shares because SDS wasn't involved in this project that you share and own the SD and SMC. This is "three indirect jobs". Once again, it's the same thing if it's a factory in Hotch, Kidrich, or Maribor, or Rušah or somewhere else. I hope that it will have this effect everywhere – three indirect jobs. And thank God for that. But don't say it's a condition, because it's much better in Hotch than elsewhere, so only there will be one employee to have an added impact on three more jobs. It's as if in Maribor and Kidric's, it wouldn't be possible. Well, that's either cheating or deceiving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u109	Ms Andreja Potočnik and Mr Ljubo Žnidar have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Look, proposer and colleague Lisec, this is not the Magna Styer result of left-wing policies. Not everything is left-wing politics, which is more to the left than you. I believe you don't agree with the Left and with our suggestions and policies anymore, but if you would listen to us when it's time, and don't beat us with the stupid things we listen to, I don't know, ladies, Venezuela, blah, blah When we talk once about the imperialism of the United States, about who triggered the refugee wave, why, about the political context, then you can open up these topics, and by then I ask you nicely not to talk about what I think, because what I think, I will tell you when I come along and that is now. [[…]] I've waited a long time. In short. You all know what you can expect from us. We, even if you don't like what we think, are consistent and we are also at the College of Presidents for the first time when marriage came to the National Assembly 18. 11. 2016, we said we were for jobs. Of course! But we do not like that it goes to the expense of 100 hectares of first-class agricultural areas that we have in Slovenia, unlike Hungary, when formerly colleague Bojana Muršič said they would go to Hungary. Yeah, but where are they gonna build it? On the first-class agricultural land! But colleagues and colleagues, Hungary has much, much more first-class agricultural land! The second thing she said was that they also built megamarkets and malls on the first-class agricultural land. Why is that? Minister Židan is not a minister for the first time and has allowed trade centres to be built on a first-class agricultural land. Even when he was not a minister, he was chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and trade centres were built on a first-class agricultural land. In short, only colleague Ludmila Novak was detained at the time, who expressed the same thought, why on agricultural land, because, of course, we were attacked mainly by social Democrats, that we are against jobs and what left we are. Sorry, we're never against jobs, I stress again, never! However, jobs are also agricultural jobs. Farmers also live with this land and also care for our self-sustainment, which we have full mouth and which is advertised through some jumbo and panamas. In short, we once again objected to this on the committee, and we said you were looking for other, more suitable locations. We have heard, thank God we no longer have a planned economy. See, that seems like a lot of damage. If the government, with a majority like this, had made a strategy, a plan, then I could say that we want to, I don't know, in Styria, where there is a car industry tradition, we would record these degraded areas and then we would just invite investors. In the White landscape, I don't know, there's a tradition of textile industry, and we'd invite investors. Of course, it would be good to arrange the infrastructure to these places and the road, because otherwise we are cut off, but obviously, as you say, it is important where there is a Member and it makes it easier to get things through. But something is a fact. Minister of the Jews in Odessa 7. 6. he wasn't telling the truth. He said he never knew that there were any alternative locations, but to the government and also to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food was six months earlier, he said 18. 11th, Mayor Anton Leskovar sent a proposal for this land in Kidrichev. Of course, then why didn't SDS react? Was Mayor Kidrič hiding from his client that he suggested these lands, or was he whispering inside information to you? I don't know that. But this is actually your customer's problem, which is now citing and giving us these recommendations. The fact is that colleague Breznik actually boasted that he had lobbyed with Mr Stranch, who is one of the biggest owners of Magna to come to Styria. Now, at the time, he claimed that the paint shop was less harmful than painting one wooden window, because you had to protect it with insecticides first, lubricate it and then protect it later with varnishes and that our doubt was the result of complete ignorance. How does he now know that this same paint shop will be harmful? I mean, answer these logical questions because I don't understand. So if there were 3,000 jobs, hypothetically, then we wouldn't be wondering if the painting room was harmful or not. Now that, say, 400 of them, we find the painting room very harmful. Ergo, does this mean that if we poison 3,000 people, it's less harmful than if we poison 400 people? What's the logic here? On the other hand, I'm asking you if you've ever seen anyone who retired as a painter. It's me. They don't breathe, or they're very horrified when they're breathing. If you know that these varnishes will be much better, much healthier, I'm very happy and I want to be wrong. Have you ever wondered why in Revoz, which works on many smaller hectares than this one, but why do mass workers in the paint shop quit? Certainly not because they're satisfied and they're well-paid. It is probably very, very questionable what these jobs will be like, how they will be paid and why. You know, the fact is, we need jobs. The fact is that every time a policy decides where it will be and how it will be, but for God's sake, let's listen, and even when the opposition makes any proposals, let's not just piss them off with some Flosculs, you're there and you're defending what. Let's hear it, then maybe it'll be easier to get where we are. My colleague Mahnic said that instead of Slovenia becoming a high-tech society, we are building lakes that are toxic to humans and the environment, and his client colleague says that it is ignorance if you say that painting houses harm people's health. I think that first you, within your party, will be able to deal with us, then we may hear from each other and perhaps find any solution together, or else only ours, theirs, and this for Slovenia alone will not be good. [[…]] I hope the paint shop, which we will not stop because we are too small, and you will not stop because you voted for it. Unfortunately, we adopt special laws for some companies that come, who choose concrete land and then we bow down humbly, we set no conditions – you can do what you want with us. It bothers me that we have no pride, no position to argue the different needs we have, but we always kneel. You helped us vote on this law. The lake will and I just deep down I really want to be wrong and that the painting room will unfortunately not only be a factory for poorly paid jobs where workers will work for low wages and where their health will be threatened. [[…]] I wish I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u111	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u112	I'll be very quick. I just want to apologize to my colleague Violeta Tomić, because when I talked about the threshold of the left political option in this project, I was not thinking about the United Left Group, so I apologize, but about the other three left political parties. So – an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u113	Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Prepare Mr. Ljubo Žnidar and Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you, President, for your word. I'd like to respond immediately to my colleague, Violet Tomić, when she said she was in pain that we had no pride. You know what pride a citizen has when he's not hot for winter? Mayor Hotch - Slivnice has repeatedly said that he deals with them when they go to him because they do not have jobs. What pride is this when you have to ask for a lot of things? With this project, you can get your pride back. They won't work for a low wage. If you've read anything – I believe you've read it – the average net salary will be a thousand and 250 euros. And I believe that even which employers from that area are deeply concerned about this because they will have to raise their salaries. And you don't need a minimum wage bill if there's an employer who's gonna pay that kind of salary. I agree, however, that there are many other anomalies that need to be corrected. I am proud that Dr. Mira Cerar's government has provided such an investment. I'd like to touch my colleague Tomaž for a moment. I have to congratulate you today because today you're looking at the last part of the fifth for arguments about why this investment isn't good. I believe that the only thing that bothers you in the SDS is that this project is good, that it is the project that is the largest after Slovenia's independence. And that's the only thing that's bothering you. I believe you're all for jobs, but when we get to the details, there, there, there, not here, and there. Tomaž, what if this investment was in your place, in Sevnica? What dilemma would he then be in for his fellow countrymen to have better wages to have jobs? Ask yourself what kind of skin you'd be in. I think that supporting such investments means that we are giving a political signal, I stress, a political signal, not an expert, that we are for new investments, both domestic and foreign, and that is important. Earlier, colleague Jan Mahnic boasted that we should look online at how his government has taken care of foreign investments so that we can look at everything in numbers. But that was a professional decision? Is that your professional decision? You made a political decision. It's the right thing to do. And I also stress that I am politically in favour of this project, but I believe that all professional services work according to professional criteria and criteria. But what we wanted here is, not that these different consents are decided 60, 90 days, but to decide as soon as possible. But it's not a violation of any legislation. As far as a colleague giving consent is concerned, he was mentioned to be a member of the SMC. I suggest you ask your colleague, Dr. Dobovsk, how is this agreement? One comment was that we only spoke politically about this location and that the Mariborians might want to go to Tezno, for example. Dear colleague Tomaž, the project in Hoča - Slivnica was also supported by the mayor of Dr. Fištravec. So he supported a project that's not in Tezna, so I don't know why it hurts so much. As far as Kidric's and your mayor is concerned, you've repeatedly mentioned that he offers an excellent location, but there's a forest. In Hoča - Slivnica we have such a surface of the forest, but the problem is 4 hectares. This little piece, Tomaž, if you can look at it, I hope it's big enough to see it. [[…]] So, here's the problem of cutting down such an area of the forest, and in Kidrichev, it wouldn't be a problem to cut 100 hectares, and now it's just a political problem again. Come in. Today we can say that you are clearly against strategic investments in the SDS, against economic growth, against new jobs, against consistent regional development. You know, in my previous implementation, when we talked about Magna, I said that I would be happy to bring this project to Tržič and to be extremely proud of it. But also the fact that it is in Hoča - Slivnica, I am extremely proud because, as has been said many times today, it is in Slovenia and it is not in Hungary. We haven't finished yet. However, if you are looking forward to the project going to Hungary and that Hungary will have new jobs, you need to ask yourself whether you are in the right Parliament or whether you may have to replace the country. We are often told that we do not have a vision of not knowing what we want, but when we decide what both the government and the members of the coalition want to support the project, and when we see that the actual project will succeed, then the alarms in the SDS ring. At that time, however, it is necessary to reverse the story in order to prevent this matter. Once again, it is important to give a political signal that we are for investment, for domestic and foreign purposes. I would also like to tell my colleague Jean that I am extremely happy that he is coming from the area as he mentioned, with very low unemployment, but that, in fact, the locals themselves ensure that they have such low unemployment. But the natives in Hocah - Slivnica, but the natives in Trobów, but the inhabitants in other regions are themselves guilty that there are no jobs? It's your fault. My friend Jean, you didn't listen before, said that these locals are so cool that they have jobs like this. I also propose then to Ninja as mayor, because I believe he will not have much trouble running this place. More than once, it was said why this location. Road, rail, airport, near Magne Steyr in Graz. Phase. The first phase of the paint shop, the circus 400 jobs, the second phase of the bodywork plant, together a thousand 350 jobs, the third phase of the car assembly circus 260 jobs, the fourth phase of the capacity doubling, the assembly of cars and some very good number, 6 thousand jobs. But if they order more, and if we like it. I was alone at the evening's presentation of public opinion, where Magna Steyr was also a representative of Magna Steyr and he himself said, you know, we don't change the strategy every three months. Do you think the company would invest 100,000, 100 million euros to change its mind and, I don't know, close the company in two years? I don't know. You think companies are just picking up money over there instead of bananas? I read that Magna Steyr is one of the best employers in Austria. They also received the Great Place to work award. I also had a chance to hear from myself, a worker who was very pleased with the painting, said that he was healthy and that he was actually looking forward to investing in Slovenia. It was said we didn't want to give in. No, you know, for new jobs, I'm not gonna give up. There's nothing to give up. My colleague Jean also mentioned that if we get an answer to the question, it is said how many jobs there will be, and then we do not mind, we will not trouble. Then what are you against? What are you against? Who will benefit most from this? No SMC, no SD, no Desus, no Minister of Rest, no Minister of the Jews, no President of the Government; most people will have jobs so they won't have to ask for heat in winter!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u115	Representative of the proposer, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you for the questions. It's easy to answer. “This investment is not good” – I don't know who said it – we are only dealing with all that is new after the adoption of this law, that the location is not real because it has been politically adjusted. And yes, I said, the Minister of the Jews is a minister, a politician. But he claims himself that it was a professional decision that he said on national television that he had no idea before what was going on, that the President of the Government and the Minister of Economy came and said that this was, and then we get information about how he knew what was going on. In short, a political decision – yes, but let the minister of the Jews admit it, he has problems with it because he hides behind the profession. As far as this is the biggest project since independence – then we are really poor! We don't have a single job yet, and it's already the biggest project since independence. I know the company we set up in Posavje, and I think 400 employees have only been employed in Kršek, so I do not say how it has more than 5,000 employees in Slovenia with its branch company, but I think 10,000 more employees in Eastern and Southern Europe. However, I have not heard the director of this company or the director of this branch company brag about how this is the biggest project since independence. And yes, new jobs – we're in. But we're increasingly doubting these 3,000, and I don't know how many jobs. That's the problem. What difference does it make if this painting room were another example of Kidrièva than it was in Hotch - Slivnica? I'm still sure they'd all get the same job. They would all get the same because, according to the data of the Employment Office, it was said that they would have problems with these staffs of such and such profile; that they were afraid, which some also warn that they would come for some good, and for some of the bad foreigners, we have now heard, top-notch for the Slovenian situation, for some middle-level working class, for a thousand 200 euros. That way we don't have a problem with this investment. Only that the profession has now been used, but this profession has been politically designated for political decisions. What's the political signal for the new investors? Ask this question to all investors from May 2010 when Minister Židan is Minister of Agriculture. What kind of signal did he give them to go to Italy, Austria, and not tell them where else? The last cases I heard yesterday, in such more exotic countries, because they said they weren't interesting here. To move businesses not only physically but also human resources to the Czech Republic, Slovakia – what are these signals from Minister of the Jews and this government for new investments? For some specific laws and financial incentives, the others – thank you for your attention and stand in line. This is the political signal: for the electorate, for the right places, for the others, for the right kind. What if it were in my congregation? I'd love to. Right now, we have a paper on the UN. With the first UN, I asked myself every second six years, the third meeting of the municipal council, when the UN will be. And we have two, now we expect one in five hectares another third smaller business zone, but none is on the best agricultural land. This third, which was given by the mayor of SLS, is on the best agricultural land, and I objected because I will be a neighbor, about 300, 400 meters away. And I said that we can't put anything on the best agricultural land, because the worst part is because we don't even know which investor is going to come or whether it's going to be environmental or otherwise controversial. You said there was a road, a railway, an airport. Close. Kidrica’s is — what is the problem? The railway, it says here, is the possibility of joining the rail network. I've never heard from any Magna before that they'll just be driving on the railroad. The possibility of an airport. I allow the Maribor airport to finally agree whether the Chinese are right or right, in short, that people or companies decide on this airport. But the investor said: “What airport? Yes, fine, if it is, but we will drive along the highway." As for this, as it is said, how great is Hotch - Slivnica, because they are the best agricultural land, and in the end, 4 hectares of forest land will be cut down, and you forced yourself to do so or are really Samaritans in Peru Ptuj to give land, according to my information, the mayor of Kidrič said: “We have business zones and if you want to cut the forest, you prefer it as in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica to cut it with us. It is exactly the same, and ownership is better.” But of course not, there was a civil initiative that was not national, but there were people with names and surnames who said, "You will ask us." But the state property in Kidrichev was not as valuable, for apparently, as it was said, it was a political decision that only the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica was real. And really, please don't talk about new jobs, because it's exactly the same thing for Podravje, but for Slovenia, if we have 400 or 3,000 jobs anywhere. They play no role for two kilometers or to be specific — no role is played for 10 kilometers. However, if the employment agency says they do not know at all whether we will have enough Slovenians and Slovenes with the profiles Magna needs in this area. So this crying is really one such political pyar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u117	First Mrs Violeta Tomić and then Andrei Potočnik for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u118	Yeah, Potočnik's got me so hot with this chicken that I have to ask her if she knows by chance how many hens you'd buy with these 10 million euros you've already thrown into Magno. According to my calculations, 24.5 million litres of fuel oil, none of them would be cold. Plus pride, you speak. What pride does he have for a full - time employee who works hard and then has to go to the Red Cross for food to feed his family? School supplies and holidays for children are paid by humanitarian workers. You know, you guys have been very liberal, and you're extremely conservative. And here you are competing with the SDS. So I've spent my minute and choose to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u119	Well, it wasn't exactly a replica. It was a debate with the position of another, but still. It's the same, time is spent, it's important. Mrs. Andreja Potočnik, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u120	It's a replica of a colleague of Lisco's. I know it's already Friday, that we're all a little tired, but I would like to repeat the essence of the difference between Hoče - Slivnica and Kidričevo. Will - Slivnica – we are talking about 4 hectares, which represents this red square compared to the rest of the forest. Kidric’s – all 100 square feet of forest should be cut down. That's the essential difference. I repeat that we will know [[…]] But now I'm going to abuse a little bit, the president, my replica, and I'm going to say, otherwise my colleague is gone, I don't want to give myself 100 million or 10 million for chicken, because that means social contributions, but I want people to earn their own money for chicken. In Hoče - Slivnica will be the average salary of a thousand 250. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u121	Peace in the hall. If you know in advance that you are going to abuse, do you think this is more justified to abuse or what?Oh, my God! No, no, no. But it also goes to the point where you have a debate. Does he want another word from a proposaler who always has the upper hand? The representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you. Looks like we're gonna be listening to the SMC mantra today. It's four acres. But that was after political pressure. If this political pressure were not there, based on what civil initiatives have done, we have talked about what, 60 hectares of forest. At that time, Mayor Kidrič said: “If you must cut down the forest, you can also cut down our 100 hectares, where there is a better ownership structure for the country.” That's what he was saying. Now you say you're only here four acres. The mayor of Kidrič said: “If you want to cut 60 hectares of forest where the problem is, then come to us.” That was the difference. And today we're listening, four acres, four acres. No, look what happened at the beginning. When you adopted the law, it was said, "we will cut 60 hectares". Then the mayor of Kidrič came and said: “If we are going to cut down, give it to us and we will not have problems cutting down 60 hectares, and we will protect the best agricultural land. Obviously, we will not protect them here because politics has made this decision and the profession has covered it all. Unfortunately. Unfortunately, farmers, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u123	We continue the debate. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would say that I am listening to a lot of debate today, but I do not think that most Members have read clearly about what department we are talking about today. It is true, however, that in this project, the purpose of a foreign investor, is in fact the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy. I am not against any foreign investor or against Magna absolutely nothing or the opposite. I would like to see such and similar investors in line 15 waiting for an opportunity to invest and actually accelerate this economic development in Slovenia. I agree with my efforts and work and support Minister Restoration. But here today, if you have read well, we are talking about the Ministry of Agriculture. So those empty debates and accusations you're making about what and efforts to raise the economy are, I'd say, some political propaganda you're doing here today. [[..]] Well, here's what I'd say. Do we have information in Slovenia and at our disposal how many unpaved buildings we are prepared to offer to a foreign investor today? We don't have any data. Do we have any land on the international tender to offer it to a foreign investor as an opportunity to invest in our unwalled building land, which has everything arranged? We don't have one on an international tender where foreign investors are invited and so on. We only point to the anarchy that reigns in Slovenia. Now, let's leave that pretty talk to who's up to what and what someone's up to. I am particularly disturbed by such things as said colleague Andreja Potočnik, that in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica citizens do not feel guilty and ask the mayors. Not just Hotch-Slut. In 209 municipalities in Slovenia, citizens ask the mayors for social assistance. In only one municipality, and this is in the municipality of Ljubljana, no. You know why? Because the left government gives Ljubljana an easy 30 million. Of course! There are 300,000 voters here and it is necessary to give this financial support and it is necessary to secure its electoral votes. So much for regional coherent development. This is a coherent regional development for the left-hand government. You have the privilege of one municipality in addition to the Main City Act, which already has certain obligations, which I absolutely agree with myself, but this is consistent regional development for the left government. I understand this political intention very well because it is 300,000 voters and it is worth giving 30 million on the altar, not today that you have the potential to have no chicken in the Hoče-Slivnica municipality. Of course they don't. Because you are neglecting certain peripherals and do not have the same criteria for all municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. There are 210 municipalities in Slovenia, not 209 plus 1. You don't know this in the left government and you don't know that there are 210 equivalent municipalities in Slovenia that are supposed to be treated according to the same criteria and criteria. So much for coherent regional development that there is no longer any dilemma. Now let me go to the professional theme. Today, if you've read well, we're talking about the Ministry of Agriculture. Look, I won't know exactly five or six years ago, in short, Minister Židan is the Minister with the longest internship, because I think that even now the mandates are really a little short, I don't know if he's been in the four governments all the time, and he's got the longest internship between all the ministers. He made a promise five or six years ago to recategorize agricultural land in the Republic of Slovenia with protected agricultural areas. It's been five years today, but nothing's happened yet. Nothing. It's true that we have 43% of the land under Natura 2000, where you can't do anything anyway. These restrictions from other departments have spread, and so on, the Minister of the Jews has done nothing in his field. Today, we would not have this meeting if Minister of the Jews had fulfilled his mission or his promise. It would protect protected agricultural land, which is absolutely prohibited by any intervention, and would have a new category of land first, second and third, and today we would not have this debate whether this land is the best agricultural land, whether it is the second category or the third or not. This meeting is a result of the unregulated situation in our country. And in this case, specifically for the unregulated agricultural situation, because today we do not know what a quality land is, but what is less quality. I'd say permeable soil is very good if you have a irrigation system. But if you don't have a irrigation system, the ground that's sold is a very bad land for me. So there are many interpretations of such and different ones. But this is due to how we actually have this area of agricultural policy in place. We don't have it. This announcement, this promise was made by the Minister of the Jews, but we do not have these categorizations and land protections. We are now talking exclusively about the agricultural field, not now to mix the economies here. It makes everything clear what we want, and that's what I said in the beginning. We're all trying. On the other hand, the third ministry should be included. I highly doubt that in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica they can provide 3,000 jobs. Anyone who thinks normally and logically knows that this is impossible. And that's not why I'm against this investment happening in that local environment. But it also needs to be made a support, a real basis, job security and the availability of human resources in a specific environment. Not just one congregation, that whole region. We are now also introducing a regional spatial act in spatial planning. We don't have any regions yet. So for the future, for tomorrow I can't imagine that we will be able to provide any land for a foreign investor at all, because we are introducing an additional step, one additional act in between and in fact, based on some new regional distribution of Slovenia that we don't have at all. What productivity and the possibility that we can do something else in this segment can be said to be very bad. Today we are talking exclusively about agriculture. As a matter of fact, Minister Jedhan is holding a fig in his pocket. Today, it has been repeatedly exposed that all the major trading centers were built on agricultural land. No problem. And the third development axis. Minister Židan boasts in the field: “I will not give consent, here the route will never go!” One week from now, the Government shall adopt a regulation adopting that route. Today we are talking about agriculture, we are talking about this work. And it's a disorderly state, or it's a diversion. The minister's talking one thing, another thing's happening. That's sad. I would like to hear why the Minister has not fulfilled this prediction that he will soon set up protected agricultural land, so that we know exactly how much we need for our basic diet and so on. It wasn't done. Today's debate is a result of loose ends, as a result of anarchy we don't have. But all things in agriculture are done on a populist basis. That's the problem. Not here to mix the economy. We all strive for the economy and how to survive. But there are other factors that are much more decisive. But the other factors are repression and prohibition. We don't give a chance. Not to repeat, we don't have any plots in business zones on the international tender to invite any investors. Not a single plot. Not a single one! Then don't brag that we're against it. Let's get the data and the numbers and put the projects on the table. We're full of mouths, but when I say, give me something on the table or give me one answer, and that's not it. Tell me how many projects or tenders we have on the international invitation to tender for foreign investors. How many do we have? None. So we speak, and we boast a great deal, the first quality of the land, the first quality. We all brag about how it protects and so on, but then on the other hand, we run the word through the night. We run over all the words because we're anarchy and we're out of order. So I don't want to listen to those convictions – us and you and them, and we're for the economy, and we're not for the economy. Let's let's talk in concrete terms. Let's talk in concrete terms. And I am not jealous of any congregation, whether it is in the congregation of Hoče - Slivnica, whether it is in Kidrič, or whether it is in the corner of Kočev. Even if we cut half the forest there. There is a need for concrete discussion, so let's be rational with time and ask for a more professional approach. I've been listening to some political propaganda for two hours now, who's up for what and who's up for what. Put these particulars on the table, and in fact, how much we are ready, and what grounds we have to attract foreign investors. Put this on the table, and then we can go have a constructive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u125	First, the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags, shall have the floor. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to answer some questions and also respond to some claims. First, at the question of Mr Lisco, the proposer, in which is the expertise of the decision or the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture to this location. Here, let me make it very clear that the investment affects 78 hectares of high-quality agricultural land; the rest are already building land. And there's no doubt about it, and we've never hidden it. On the contrary. It was publicized. The Faculty of Biotechnical Technology analysed and found that the average rating is 61 points out of 100 possible, which includes 6% of the most fertile land in Slovenia. The average rating of agricultural land is 41 and a half. In any event, since we are bound by the Constitution, Article 71, and the Agricultural Lands Act, the Ministry of Agriculture, irrespective of its political will, would not give consent because it would not violate its own legislation, spatial legislation or constitution, unless appropriate relief measures were provided. As a relief measure in the municipal spatial plan, the municipality proposed replacing agricultural land, not returning unburied agricultural land, building land back to agricultural use, not that, but replacing it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I talk?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u127	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u128	Yes, of course, the same quality, because that land is going to invade lands that are not agricultural today. And the soil there is not permeable and light, necessary irrigation, but even deep up to one metre. That's crystal clear to all of us. What does this relief measure look like? The municipality predicted 63 hectares and a half to be replaced, according to cut-off forest land, remaining on degraded land. Now that we're talking about 4 hectares, it's a compromise. By the way, I don't know what you meant by one form of property being more appropriate than the other. However, the fact is that the first phase and the second phase were planned on state forest land in the Rogoske Forest and that they are also state-owned in Kidrič. So I don't see any difference here. And even if it were private, yes, of course, there is the will of the owner on private land. So it was forest land owned by the state and managed by the state company. The forest was not even protected; it was at the second stage of ecological importance, in short it was not problematic in terms of nature or deforestation. Whatever. The municipal spatial plan is clear, it is said, that the hedge from the investment site must be transferred to the cut-off forest and cleared forest land or if the degraded land goes and without intermediate deposit because the agricultural land is damaged in the intermediate deposit with manipulation. I'll give you that. If the ground stood as it stood at the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, it stood on Blanca, as I know, Mr. Lisec, at that time, and there was improperly done, it is estimated, some rehabilitation of degraded land, then the ground breaks down. Of course she won't sit down right away. And why the Roggo forest? There's another advantage. You spoke, Mr. Lisec, you were concerned about farmers who lost their land. Well, because they will be able to get a replacement land, but the advantage of the location in the Roggo forest was also the proximity of this lost location so that farmers in the same area could have it later, because these replacement lands were not meant to be obtained by farmers instead of their lost, with these substituted land in the forest or degraded land we replaced the fields because such good crops would be unacceptable to lose. Here we have done all we can, the congregation has understood and proposed such a pardoning measure. The measure was also judged through environmental assessment and, once again, I say, no matter how we did, the Minister, as a member of the Government, realized that an important investment for the region where unemployment is large, has done everything or as a director we have done it to preserve this land and mercury. And we will. If there are any more forests — certain neighboring congregations have already announced that they have degraded lands that they can train. The congregation of Kidrichev may once again report that the forest is being cut down. But, Mr Lisec, you know this very well, if the forest is cut down and the intended use is turned into an agricultural land, there must be an OPN - a spatial plan for this. You can't just change that. We should have opened the whole procedure. There must have been a time factor here. But whatever the case, since substitute land or any other solution such as the Rogog Forest will still be sought for the next stages, such solutions will, of course, come in handy. Second. There were also some indications that trade centres were growing on agricultural land, on the best agricultural land. I'm very pleased with your concern that you don't allow an intervention, I think we wouldn't have it there either, where your mayor would like to do what I know on the best agricultural land. We are aware of something, the protection of agricultural land cannot be absolute. If that's what we wanted. I fully agree with all of you who have warned us about how little agricultural land we have in relation to the population. This is well-known to all and, above all, to all of you in Parliament. So, security isn't absolute. What is the key to how we implement this protection? We are implementing it in a way that is very strict and to make sure that there are no other solutions. Of course, it is not possible to go to the best agricultural land because the legislation is clear. First, it is necessary to consume existing building sites, then other land, degraded land. If these are not available and other than agricultural land, they must first go to worse land and then to better agricultural land. The fact that we're in the clear of how the location was chosen. This is not the responsibility of our minister. Our minister has nothing to do with how foreign investment is supported or young people go out. He's not the Prime Minister, yet! This one was bad, I hope you're all awake, yes. Now let us limit the debate to what is the subject of our department.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u129	I'm asking for a real debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u130	But speaking of those lands that are free, honourable Members, we are not responsible. There's a colleague from the Ministry of the Economy. In the course of this experience, Magna wrote to his fellow Minister, the President of the Government, and gave the initiative to make this list of industrial zones, so that when an investor comes, he already has a catalogue of where he can go or what the options are. In the material you could read about how the list of cons is made, what are these zones, how big a zone is, what is the largest, how much free land there is. Then, too, there is a dedicated research project in preparation that will also describe these zones in detail. This path seems right to me and I agree with your calls or also with the invitation of Ambassador Violeta Tomić that these things should be prepared in the future. This has nothing to do with the planning economy, this has to do with the fact that as a country we know the planned spatial interventions to a space that is always limited. Different interests need to be coordinated in the space. I would like to say something else about the protection of agricultural land. Protecting agricultural land, I can say with confidence that this is one of the leading priorities of our mandates. We have a third, not a fourth. Under the leadership of the Minister of the Jews, the law was drafted and here also adopted in the National Assembly in one of the other compositions of 2011, namely the Law on Agricultural Lands. It has introduced compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land as the most dissuasive instrument from interfering with agricultural land, so that the rule can be realised, first of all, to exploit land that is already built or where some abandoned buildings are degraded, which are worse agricultural land, if any, forest land, whatever. That's why he introduced a compensation instrument. As on the committee, I will read again and say that this high compensation was almost completely devalued in 2012 by the Member's law, which changed this article and wanted to remedy the compensation in the first place and then drastically reduced it. That's what your government says. But every natural resource must have its price if we are to treat it rationally and honestly. And that. For those shopping centres, I can assure you that for such investments, we, as the ministry, are particularly looking at what the municipalities are proposing as a consensus. After all, congregational spatial plans, including these, are being prepared by congregations that propose many things. And why is it taking so long if I can afford some more discourse? Why is it taking so long to adopt municipal spatial plans? Because the congregations are always very large, at least on our side I can say very large desires, ever-increasing desires, such as space. As a result, this coordination is sometimes very difficult, very long, and we are very strict about it. We usually demand that, even if it is not possible to invest with an investment or with some developmental needs, it is possible to place it outside agricultural land so that those, if they are not yet free, are returned to agricultural use or certain relief measures are taken. This compensation is still available today, but it is significantly lower. I told you before, the average rating in Slovenia is 41.5 points, the law in question in 2012 provided for this compensation only for agricultural land over 50 credit points, which is only for great land. But there's no compensation for the rest. Since we have super-quality agricultural land in Magna, this compensation will be, but if we didn't drastically reduce it, it would be about 16 million, and now it will be about 6 million and a half. Maybe so much about how we protect agricultural land. I would also like to say that Mr Žnidar well knows that this law of 2011 also provided for the establishment of permanently protected agricultural land in such a way and on such a professional basis as to provide that, in essence, each municipal spatial plan would have such an accurate agricultural space to check all the credit points to identify land intended for agromeliorations, where an agromelioration is permitted or desired to be removed and other intervention. Then we changed the law, we had to change it because it was no longer feasible in this way, because these grounds are also being laid down so as not to impose costs on the municipalities because these professional studies are financed from these compensations for change of destination and could not be financed. That's why we changed the law. We have corrected these expert base procedures, now there is only one single rule to be adopted and will begin to be established this year, and for at least 10 years there will be no change in the intended use from permanently protected agricultural land to any other use. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u131	Now I'm going to have to actually judge. Even the government would like to move on. We'll give the replica first. First of all, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u132	I'll be very brief. Thank you, Chairman. Just to explain, I don't think the respected secretary of state understood me very well. I am talking about permanently protected agricultural land where there is no permit – we should not have it, because Minister Židan has promised so-called protected agricultural land – no intervention. And there's no compensation. I know well the credit rating classes, scoring and evaluation and compensation are due to this. But what the minister promised, he was talking about permanently protected land. You can't buy that. Nothing's allowed in there. We don't have that today. That's what we're talking about. So this is where you misunderstood me. You're telling me about the other categories of agricultural land that are paid with compensation. Permanently protected agricultural land is a protected agricultural land that you cannot buy and can not buy with any compensation, compensation, tax and so on. This is not imposed on municipalities in municipal spatial acts. This must be done by the Ministry of Agriculture for the whole country. This is not the task of the congregations. I know that the Ministry and Government imposes increasing responsibilities on the municipalities to avoid their costs and thus imposes financial burden on the municipalities. But this is the Ministry's task, which should introduce this categorization. This is not about any payment of compensation or redemption, and so on. These are land where no intervention is allowed except pure agricultural use. That was my debate. I am talking about permanently protected agricultural land or protected agricultural land, land where no intervention is allowed. That was my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u133	The text is now delivered by the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology mag. Aleš Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you very much, President. Since it was a specific question, I will also answer. I am not the last person in charge of this area and we still have updated data on the situation and we are now talking about foreign direct investment. Right now we have besides Magna, I'm shutting down Magno right now, in processing at the Ministry, eight more important and potential investments. Larger is 52 or more jobs. Some have already been exposed or published. Such an example is the construction of the new production plant Lek in Prevalje. Most of them haven't been. I suggest you follow the media closely on August 2nd. Otherwise, let us hope that these 8 additional projects will bring thousands of 279 jobs, the total value of investments of €313 million. Every moment we know where we are, the expected realization of these projects is 75%.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u135	Would you like some more? [[advertising from the hall]] Well, I'll give you my word again, no problem. The government can speak when it uses its time. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags has the floor. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Just a quick word to Mr. Gnyard. We were both talking about permanently protected agricultural land. This is the same category under the law that will start this year. But that's what I'd like to say. This idea that this land, where it is not possible to change the use of purpose to another use, would be this permanent protected agricultural land for at least 10 years, this applies to municipal spatial plans, not to State spatial plans because of roads or such projects as are in one corridor and cannot be planned otherwise. But our proposal has also been at one time to be the task of the state and to set it for me. The only problem is that this would interfere with the constitutional competence of the municipalities, as far as spatial planning is concerned, so such an arrangement would really be ideal, and I agree with that. We have already had a proposal to make this permanently protected agricultural land determined by the regulation, but according to lawyers, it would be unconstitutional. By doing so, the congregations will do so in their municipal spatial plans on these professional grounds, which will be prepared by the authorized organizations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u137	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you. I will begin with the Agricultural Lands Act and these more or less infamous damages. It was said, in 2011, Pahor's government, the SD government did it, and this evil government of Janez Janša reduced it in 2012 and reduced it dramatically. Thus, the only difference would be the Magna 16 million, the Pahor's Government's proposal, and 6 million the actual state of the Janša government. The question, however, is that it will not be rhetorical: would this difference deter Magna from investing in Slovenia? Yeah, but no. Second question. If the current compromise, the current state of compensation is so catastrophic and does not pursue any objective of protection, protection of agricultural land, I wonder why Minister Židan has not changed him since March or April 2013 as the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food? For four years he had the opportunity to solve the problem of compensation or to restore it to the condition of the first Pahor government, but Minister Dejan Židan was Minister of the Government of Ms Alenka Bratušek, and she probably did not hear this proposal from Mr Židan that this compensation should be more protected or reimbursed to the state of Pahor's Government, nor was it in the Government of Mir Cerar. Once again, we have not seen this bill. And that's what we're talking about. There is always some compromise between the economy and agriculture. That's what I said as a proponent in the introduction. We understand the intention of each economy minister to want economic development and, on the other hand, there must be some influence of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is supposed to take care of the existence of such or different ones in this type of most fertile agricultural land. Alone, Madam Secretary of State, you said that we are talking about 6% of the most fertile land. You said we didn't want to lose the good guys like that, and we're gonna lose them. If that's what it's gonna be. We don't want to lose, but we will. More. You said you couldn't go to the best agricultural land. With special law, Magna will go to the best agricultural land. Now I'm going from farmland to the woods. When this law was passed, it was said that we would cut down 63 acres [63 ha] of forest. Then came the civil initiative and said Mayor Kidricev: “If you want to cut the forest, we will give you 100 hectares if there is a problem.” And he didn't listen. We are now hearing that what is the problem if we are to cut down the forest, we need to adopt a municipal spatial plan. But this applies to both the congregation of Hoče - Slivnica and the congregation of Kidrichev. What's the difference? The O.N. is the O.N. Is time a problem? Ah, ha. Another piece of evidence on how this is a political decision. In the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, politics has decided, “gasa boys” and let us leave the hands of the authorities, and all those matters that accompany the laws, as they are called the Law on the Planning of Space, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on the Construction of Buildings. [[Incomprehensible]] There is time on our side because it is the right political decision or direction. There's no ally there, and I hope, well, I don't know any mayor personally, I hope that Mayor Kidrič's not so greedy as to bargain with the O.N., even though he offered 100 acres of land that Mayor Hotze - Slivnica is such a super cool guy, there wouldn't be a problem with the time that you think is decisive. Now we're talking four acres today, but this is the current state. At the time of the adoption of the law, 63 hectares were said and then this idea was, if we have to cut down the forest, let's give it where maybe a slightly better ownership structure is or very similar if there are some people who don't want to give up their forest. One last thing about malls. As a customer in these malls, I always say two better than one, because you can compare, and you're on the market. But if we are looking at where these shopping centers are growing, whether they grow one and one as mushrooms in the rain, or in some context where the municipal spatial plan has arranged it, it has to go with the blessing of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And just a mere call, you come to our congregation, see where are the shopping malls, which are in the degraded areas and which were the first to reach the best agricultural land on the Sava River. Historical agricultural land, but now stands a shopping center. And I'm not gonna do him a negative, not a positive commercial. And here's what we're talking about. When we decide between politics and expertise, some policy hides itself behind the profession, but there is always a decision in the end. Here we have a problem that some are governed by rules and others by rules. I hope that at the end of this debate we will come to some common consensus, that we will follow what follows at least in the words of the Modern Centre's policy, that they are for all areas of the same rules. And the Magna case is also a case in the field of agricultural land protection, one of which is available to all, and the other one goes in line or abroad. That is why this appeal is ours if we do not change anything, so that we may at least let the political decision makers and those professional decision makers know that they should make the same vats for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u139	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members, good afternoon! I will start by saying that I will speak as a politician, that I will debate politically because I am a politician. We're all politicians if we're here in the National Assembly. Either we're good or we're bad politicians, and that's another thing that voters know, and that's what citizens and citizens know. So that no one would talk to me or deny me that I spoke too politically. First, I would return to agricultural land, which is actually the subject of today's or the debate. Over the last 20 years, we have heard many times today that we have spent hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land on road infrastructure, including shopping malls. I'm sure they weren't all first-class, but they were. Look, if we don't spend this or not, I won't say they spent it because they used it, but if we didn't build roads, where Slovenia would be now. At the time, the ministers were different, it was mentioned that there was a longer time, but they were also before him. Some things had to be decided by the competent minister and later by the government. Because the government is for it to decide, and I think we have to trust the government because it represents the country. Now I'm gonna go back to investing, Magno. Many times it has been said that we need 100 hectares of the best land, and only 400 workers will be employed. We need to know that at the first stage, when we're talking about painting, the investor only needs 8 hectares of land. And this investor is serious and they say he wants to buy 100 hectares of land, so to speak, he wants to build a factory in this area in the long run. A lot of people say why the paint shop? The lake is the worst thing. Indeed, 30 and 40 years ago, there was something else. Today, however, the paint shop has evolved technologically, and according to the data available from this Magna factory, they have it in the city centres in Austria, and there are no comments and I do not know why they would be with us now. Why would there be such a boom in our house that everything is going to be wrong around the painting room? Tomic was kind of talking about why she's paying, what she's gonna pay for. Yeah, they're gonna pay because they're gonna work. Because they're gonna work, they're gonna get paid. What wages will be paid today was a lot of speech by Ambassador Andreja as well as Ksenija. I will repeat once again that they will be moving along those available data between a thousand 200 and a thousand 800, that these are different levels of education. That's not all. This investor, the employer, also has data to provide them with the 13th salary and to get a regression. I mean, as far as this is concerned, this is good, and workers are very important. According to existing data, Slovenian workers are also expected to work in Magna. Perhaps for these reasons, the investor decided to build this factory in this part of Slovenia. I hope things go this far. These things started in the congregation and the UN that they have adopted, now I think they are already adopted, this is a matter of the congregation and this decision is completely autonomous. I don't know why we do this kind of pump all over the country. I think that it is right, and Xenia, who, before that time, has made some sort of effort and advocated a political investment in this part of Slovenia, is right. If it were in Koroška, I would be, too, because we need factories in Koroška, we need investors who will bring some new impetus. The fact is, we need this new impetus because our wages just don't go up. And even those employers we have, I'm not going to talk about all of them, but a lot of the profits they spend on themselves. Few are the ones who share it with the locals. According to existing data, this employer also invests a lot in the local community. This means that these are the benefits themselves, the good things and if this data in that first phase, when it was actually talked about, when it was said that Mr. Minister for the Economy Rested, that there was nothing in his pants, would not actually go to that time among farmers, because he is an agronomist, he found that it was actually there to get those first data on which he then decided whether it would make any sense to kick into this part of the land from farmers. I think he got a very good grade back then, and these things could have continued. I think we've come to that stage when we can, after a while, by the fall, as the Secretary of State said before, we can say that things are getting ready for construction, not only do we decide where the investment will be, but that things will start to be prepared differently. Interestingly, in these days the Constitutional Court also rejected the initiative of Matoz and Fire concerning Magna. I must say that the Dela poll of 12 June also showed that Magna and the second track in Slovenia are welcome. If some things are to be desired by citizens, I think we must all work in the same direction that citizens will also be satisfied. If new jobs are being prepared, I think that's why we're already on the road and closer to people. The talk was that the number of workers would increase when this phase was somehow in the final phase and when the factory would be built to the extent planned, somewhere up to 3,000 to be indirect jobs. There was talk of carriers, innkeepers. And that's very important, too. That's not really what we're talking about today. Many will say what an investor is, but apparently there is evidence that this Magna, or employer, is highly recognised, prominent in his place, in his country, in his community. That is why Magno, where he now works, is very well received in the local community, and in fact I wish there were even more of these investors. The fact is that once this starts, some investor confidence must arise, because Slovenia is politically stable and all conditions are given. I think it'll go on. However, the fact is that there are many locations, even in the wood industry, where nothing will have to rent new land anymore, but only things will be adapted and restored in the old lands, which are actually in some state that is not suitable for Slovenia. It'll just have to be restored. I hope that such investors will follow and that new jobs will begin to take place. This is most important for this economic growth to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u141	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Mr Marko Ferluga and Mr Janko Weber should be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Of course, we are all for new jobs, but not by someone coming and saying, but here I want to build a factory for so many and so many jobs. We must be ourselves and remain the masters of our space. And that's the most controversial thing about this project. I say the same things all the time, and in New Slovenia we have been stressing the same things all the time. That's what I told Minister Restovalski when he visited us. He's done his best to do this project because it's important that we have different investors coming to us. We stress this all the time in New Slovenia, but on the other hand we cannot allow such a large area of the best agricultural land to be transformed overnight into a wally area for a project because we still have many degraded areas in Slovenia where similar investments could be made. And it's also not the only way to get someone to come and promise a lot of jobs, the best factory. I have nothing against Magna, and we are happy investors, domestic or foreign, to have Slovenians' jobs, but so many times in recent years we have run into businesses, businesses who say that years and years are waiting for permission, to expand their production, their business premises, and years and years are not allowed. That is why we are not so excited about this way of doing things, because we need to be equal to everyone, because all potential investors are important, not just one big project. Small medium-sized enterprises are the most successful in Europe, not only large giants, who suddenly contribute so much and so much jobs, but also put more pressure on the environment. The question is whether they will really get an adequate number of workers in Slovenia in this factory. The second question is, is it really such a harmless production? I know quite a few people who have been working at a massacre, where they also use different adhesives, and they all got, not all of them, but I know a few of them who have got allergies. On the third hand, again, more and more robots will be used in such work. So a stranger is quite something. But I'm not against this project because the locals want it and they need it. In Novi Slovenija we had to defend ourselves before local committees, why we oppose this. We do not oppose Magna as such, even less jobs, but the way we have undertaken the project, because we do not do enough to ensure that this space law is equal for all, so that everyone has equal conditions. Now, however, there are laws in the process that are supposed to bring about changes. Unfortunately, acquaintances say it's not for the better. It is necessary to amend the legislation so that investors will, of course, be less red tape to obtain permits, which does not mean that the best agricultural land is at stake. We already have a problem in Slovenia because we produce too little food at home, but we have fertile land. Although you say that self - care increases when I listen to this association, it speaks the other way around — that just repacking does not mean more self - care. So we still have reserves in this area. In New Slovenia, we often propose laws to support the economy because it asks the economy for certain changes, but we always find ourselves unfortunately deaf ears. Then there is no support for the economy. Jobs are of course important, necessary, this is the best social policy. But let us remain the masters of our space. The question is, is only the position there the best? Probably the price, too. In an industrial zone, prices are certainly different. With such a subsidy as the Government will grant, a number of entrepreneurs would also create quite a lot of jobs. I would like to point out that in New Slovenia we do not oppose Magna because northeastern Slovenia needs jobs. However, let us be economical in this regard; let us not further degrade the best agricultural land. You have better information, I quickly found only old ones – how many farms are falling from day to day, how the agricultural area is shrinking from day to day. Of course, we'll say, if, at the store, at these centers, food is relatively cheap, and we can buy it there. Yes, but I'm sure domestic food from home fields with the support of domestic agriculture is best for Slovenia and for all of us. Let us therefore remain and be masters of our land and be equal to all potential investors and economists.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u143	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Danilo Anton Ranc. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Hello, Secretary of State with a colleague. There have been a lot of things that have been said about this case, Magna. It is true that there are many degraded areas in Slovenia. It is true that agricultural land needs to be looked after. He claims that some special law was needed to make the matter happen. Why? First of all, to act quickly, because we know how all this bureaucracy is going on with us. And second of all, which is even more important to me to give this potential investor some positive signal that we do. We all know that these potential investors, investors with money, have some vision of what they want and who they want. I understood that the Ministry had given more variants than those people had seen, and they chose to. As far as I can see, it was necessary to start building. Here then comes our Slovenian weighing or some duality or some hypocrisy. It says, on the one hand, we jump into the air and say, "Oh, no, the damage is agricultural land. It's a shame about the woods. It's a shame they're watering her. It's a waste of air. It's a pity for the people." On the other hand, we say, "U, it's a white road, we still have too many unemployed and we don't know how to hire them to find a job." Now in this bipolar work, we're making decisions and we don't know what to do. Then somehow this one and the same pattern as I've been following lately, some unconstructive throwing of pollen under my feet, and searching always for some negativity, some separation, or we're talking about another track or we're talking about Magna or we're talking about anything, there's always something else, there's always something else. [[..]] Suddenly, in the last five minutes, before everything was analyzed, five minutes before the twelfth, we'd explore some new land, find some new route, always do something, just not to take this important step forward. It's kind of a folklore with us, and I'm sorry we can't take that step forward, so that one day we start some kind of positive development of all these things. There's been a lot of saying. Yes, I agree that we are not consistent, even in the government they are not consistent, when they decide, for example, when it comes to helping, as we have heard now, Akrapovich or anyone. But when we get this Magno that's really a multinational, which is a company, you can't imagine they want to buy 100 hectares. The lake is 8 hectares away. What are they going to do on 82 acres? Plant potatoes? They'd buy these 100 acres to plant potatoes? They probably have other desires and ambitions that have been presented and shown. I'm afraid that by this way of ours, we're going to be trying to drive anyone away and this little thing in every step of the way. And then, you won't believe it, they come out like mushrooms in the rain of some independent civil water initiative, for the wind, for the air, for the animals, just so you don't do it. Then come various acquaintances, from some journalists who have become eco conscious. We find one so wide range of things that I wouldn't do it. It's a little political, which I can understand. But when we start talking about projects involving 300, 400 people, I think it's funny. Even if it's 100 people, I think it's important for Slovenia that we get one such company that can have some kind of development that can then affect if we say that there are 300 or 400 of these people, they'll be able to start spending something in this family, invest something, buy something, and they'll have local stores. And this is where this multiplier goes. I can't get past the fact that we can't take things as politically as we do, but I think it's better that we start looking in some direction of the future. Yes, there are a variety of concerns, but I think the basics in all this are these jobs, that people will not go abroad to work, but they will have the opportunity to work with us. If we start in this positive thinking, I think we have a chance to do that. But if we start thinking negative about what it was like, I don't know if we're going to get far. But thank you if you think we've got some kind of mayor. SMC doesn't have any mayors, and this mayor of this town isn't ours either. That's what I guarantee you. But things are really amazing when we look at this aspect so that we don't come and that we wouldn't have any new investment. That's interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u145	We have three final debaters. First of all, he gets the word, Mr. Janko Weber. Since time is up, it's just Mr. Weber. Mr. Weber, you're the only one who's got the word, I've been warned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you for your word and for this honor to be the last to speak. With regard to today’s point, it should be pointed out briefly that this recommendation is, in fact, too late, given that a law has been passed specifying that it is in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica and all other locations cannot be considered for this reason, except that we change the law and then open the area to other locations. I have also highlighted this problem in the position of the Group of Members when we write the law "here and there" and then, if it happens to be a better location, which would be more favourable to agricultural land, it is a problem because it is difficult to move away from this framework set by the law. Similarly, the law on the second track, which also established the worst possible and most expensive option in the law. However, I would also like to emphasise the following. When we talk about carefully treating agricultural land and the environment and when we have an organised approach to monitoring it and also reporting to the National Assembly as well as to the Government, the mechanisms that this body is actually trying to eliminate are being launched. I will remind you of the Environment Council, which has worked for many years. I think that even from 1996 onwards, which systematically monitored the situation in the environment and also monitored the situation on agricultural land, in particular the loss of agricultural land due to various interventions, from motorways to shopping centres, and I do not know what else was going on in Slovenia on the most high-quality agricultural land. Then, at some point, but this was also at a time when the proposer had authority, there was the end of this world. He acted as an independent body within the State Council. My proposal at the time was that we should even put him under the auspices of the National Assembly precisely because of this neutrality and control that we must also exercise as the National Assembly on what is going on within the executive branch when deciding where there will also be an investment. But we have simply abolished this and today we do not have one institution that systematically monitors this situation in the environment and also in agricultural land. I'm talking about an independent institution. Many of the commercial centres that were built were also built there between 2000 and 2007. This period was more or less then led either by the Slovenian People's Party or by the Minister of SDS, but at that time it intervened drastically in the area of agricultural land. And it is right that today we are very serious about what can happen to us if this trend continues. The director of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber has also made it very clear that he does not really want us to operate on agricultural land as bulldozers under this law. And, Your Honor, why can this happen to us? Because if we intervene beyond the highest quality agricultural land, you will normally reach out to Natura 2000. And this is one of those mistakes that was also made in Slovenia when we entered the European Union. With an under-thinking scale, we protected almost 40% of the area in Slovenia, which belongs to Natura 2000. But these are usually less fertile land, less important for food production, and above all they are not the highest quality agricultural land that we have very little. One thing is that if we really want to talk to investors effectively, we also want to do a review of Nature 2000. I am convinced that many of the areas where all the diversity of nature in Natura 2000 can be preserved and put into place much easier through natural mechanisms than it will be to establish the highest quality agricultural land as a substitute measure, which is also provided for in this procedure, so that the land or land most fertile and of the highest quality can be used for the establishment of replacement areas and therefore these compensatory measures are implemented. Nature often takes care of this and also of the living to adapt to a certain environment, and this takes a much shorter time than to make the land fertile. The profession says it takes 500 years for an inch of fertile soil. It is therefore extremely urgent to realise that all these measures we are planning must be significantly more thoughtful. We were reckless when the economy collapsed in the Maribor environment. It was an industrial environment. Highly developed technology, high-quality businesses, a lot of jobs, but this was actually wasted along the line of least resistance, on the basis of sales, earnings, oasis money flow, literally destruction of the economy, which is crucial for the development of each society. I am convinced that if we could also provide Maribor with EUR 67 million, which belongs to them on the basis of the status they have as a problem area with a wider environment, they would be in a state of many industrial zones, for example in Ruša, which was mentioned, and would be able to create larger areas by removing those objects that are not in use at this point or are in a state that cannot be offered to an investor. This amount of removal, in my view, is significantly lower than we are now dedicating to say that an investor will come to Slovenia. In particular, Magna doesn't come at this location for free either. There's a lot of money to be made for it. I think it would really be a time to make this money to Maribor, which has the potential to compete not only within this global world, but directly to Grad and all other Austrian places that obviously have the development potential as much as it does, and they need to be able to compete in this border area to develop new technologies that include much knowledge and substantially or minimally pollute the environment. I have to remind myself again that we can also sell high-tech companies and this technology, once it goes out and when it moves out of Slovenia, then someone else benefits from this added value, and we are left with only productions that we can bring from elsewhere, and we wonder whether it is clean enough or not. Look, we have brought Slovenia ourselves to take the dignity that has been built for decades and decades and should also be built in Slovenia's independent future. These recommendations, which are here today, are a more political game, how to discredit, say, Minister of the Jews, rather than find a solution. That is why I have talked more about solutions, and I have also drawn attention to shopping centres that were unnecessarily built just when, say, the applicant was responsible for the agricultural field.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The first gets the word of a representative of the Government, state secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! It seems crucial to me that in the end, once again, because of Magna's investment, there will be no loss of any agricultural land, perhaps a plot, but the ground, what is worth the agricultural land, is the hedge, the soil, there are 1 metre deep. Right, Mr Weber said that it takes 500 years to form one centimeter, and if it is one metre of deep soil, such soils are made up of 30,000 years. And that's the value that's priceless. This land, in particular its top part, which is a hedge, which, in addition to having humus, still has living organisms, will be moved elsewhere where there is no agriculture now, where there is no agricultural use, so that the fields will be elsewhere. If I specifically illustrate the first phase, because we are now talking about the first phase, the investment has four phases. For the first phase, it is a condition for obtaining a building permit to establish new replacement land. It was envisaged in the still valid municipal spatial plan to establish it in the Rogoske Forest, in the part of the forest where it is owned by the State and the administrator of SIDG. The municipality has now sent a new proposal for the first phase. We have talked about this before, Mrs Potočnikov. For the first phase, they now propose 4 hectares of forest in the 300 hectare complex and 4.6 hectares in the Darsa depot, where there is nothing where the building material is fertilized. So instead of 4.6 hectares of useless, degraded land in the landfill and instead of 4 hectares of forest, we will get 8.6 hectares of new land. We're not gonna lose the field, they're just gonna lose it somewhere else. And let this be a message, please, of these meetings, that we, too, as the Ministry of Next Stages, will insist on providing replacement land. No, we do not determine or choose where they should be, whether they will be in the congregation of Hoče - Slivnica or in neighboring congregations. But we will insist on this, without returning agricultural land to use as agricultural land, because unbuilt building land is back to agricultural land. No, this would be an inappropriate and insufficient mitigating measure for a quality country such as this. We'll insist on getting new crops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u149	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u150	Proposal for a recommendation concerning the inactivity of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Nutrition Dejan Židan at the loss of the best agricultural land in the Magna project. Minister Dejan Židan is not even present at the sitting. However, we did not want to trouble ourselves to see if, instead of his colleagues on the government team, the State Secretary at the same ministry and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology would be in charge. But apparently the minister of the Jews chose an easier path, sent his fellow workers into battle, but he himself has other responsibilities, said he is currently in Cyprus. It was our intention to point out exactly what Mr. Jew did or did not do. He says: “I was put before the executive fact: Magna will be in Hotch – Slivnica.” And that's it. Then comes the data when the Ministry had previously cooperated on what the Ministry had done and so on. We do not know exactly what the role of the Minister of Agriculture in this story is today either. The fact is that he has apparently succumbed to a story that goes with another minister and where the political path is the right way to achieve certain moments where everything is allowed, including if necessary a new law, financial support for the first-class if you want, and the situation in the ranks or red light of the same district minister in other investments, which are probably also waiting for a similar blessing. Given that we have spatial and environmental legislation ahead of us, these future investors will still stand in line for some time. But we can only wonder who will be so happy that they will also receive the state aid that this company has received. It is also problematic that, at the same time that we take a decision at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on the proposal of an MP from the same party, from which the Minister also comes to protect the best agricultural land, Minister Židan expresses his agreement with the Magna Steyr project, so it is silent and publicly says he knows nothing about this investment, and then, when the stories begin, we hear that he has actively cooperated. Today it was also said how the stories are today. But we have to keep an eye on the story of the adoption of the law. Today's debate has shown much more that at the time of the adoption of the law, with all due respect, three-quarters of the things that should be cleared up in such investments as Magna were not. There was talk, there was bidding on jobs, there is no more bidding, no more spirit and no more hearing. A second phase is still expected, while the minister says he hopes that at least the first phase will be achieved. We all know what the situation in the area of those 100 hectares of agricultural land was like in the area of those forests and what it is today. That civil initiatives were after the adoption of the law and not before those who should have listened to them, that they were pressured on one public-economic institution, that after seven months the political firm had approved free humanitarianism, such as obviously this paradigm around that party, free of charge to give its land and so on. Suddenly, it is not a problem, despite the opposition of this same department, to make the best agricultural land degrade by setting up a paint shop there. But we are convinced that the land that will come from this land will bear much better when we cut down the forest. I'm just waiting on the magic wand to have these 4 hectares of forest and all the other degraded areas to which you're about to enter, it was immediately said, this agricultural land would be done on the night of July 16-17. I'm cariculating, because it's obviously so simple in this government if it's political will. If the political will is for the right and, as was said, if the political time is for the right people, who follow the political story and also through their expertise, the client-defined of course, they also cover it professionally. And that's what we're afraid of. While this same government coalition is talking about systemic matters, unfortunately, we will be forced to look for different bypasses, lex specialities, so that those who will be first class according to the will of this government will be first class and immediately those who will receive time, space and financial incentives, on the other hand others who will not even have space will have no time and will ask for loans elsewhere, not with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we wanted to draw attention from today’s meeting to the fact that not only does the Minister of the Jews speak very differently, but he works quite differently. Such an agricultural policy must be resisted if we are to do what the Minister himself says: protect the best agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u151	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing yes. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal recommended by Mr Tomaž Lisec and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. First of all, Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor. You have five minutes. [[advertising from the hall]] You're the last one, Mr. Lisec, as a proponent. The first, therefore, is Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I admit, I have some problems because there is talk about my cousin, Mr Dejan Židan, but politics works transparently, works in public, and we need to publicly say what we like and what we don't like. I welcome all the ministers' activities in order for Slovenia to succeed, I am sure, at this autumn's General Assembly of the United Nations, by proclaiming 20 May as the world's bee day. I also modestly contribute to this at all and indeed at all talks with ambassadors, foreign delegations which I receive in my office or the National Assembly, and explain where the Slovenian background is, on 20 May 1734, Anton Janša, father of modern beekeeping. But I would like to put this debate into a broader context of Slovenian policy and Slovenian politicians, but I will stick to the agenda. Last year at the opening of the Agre Fair in Gornja Radgona, some of you were there, I hope that I will also be invited this year despite this debate, very dramatic in front of the auditorium talking like this, not holding my word, I cannot quote: Every day someone comes to me and demands the best agricultural land to build them. It was the content of his speech, very dramaticly he knew it, theatrically even, to articulate. Normally, the crowd rewarded that statement. When he invited us to help him do so, the crowd rewarded him with a noisy applause, as they say. But the actions are different, what my colleague Lisec said earlier. And that hurts me in this Slovenian policy. One is the words, in front of the camera, a nice picture, a beautiful gentleman, but the actions are another. We can call it populism or demagogy. And this should be erased from Slovenian politics for all time. And secondly, when we talk about jobs, yes, even at this point in the agenda. On 16 September 2015, Novartis in Lendava opened the biggest investment in Slovenia so far. Mr Dejan Židan, Vice-President of the Slovenian Government, at the eve of this opening, where, among other things, the President of the Swiss Confederation wrote on Facebook, somehow in this sense, I will not quote, because I do not know, but you can see: What a shame that Lek is no longer in state ownership, that he is in private property, what a damage he could be as good as Krk. The Vice-President of the Slovenian Government shall give such a signal to investors, domestic and foreign investors. If I were the Prime Minister of the Government, I would thank him next minute for his cooperation in the interests of this country. And now, if you'll excuse me, Mr Vice-President of the Government will be able to correct this statement. Why? Because Lek is the biggest employee in Pomure again, and again in Lendava, just before the new investment. You know the flow and so on. I now expect that the Government, like Magna, will also approach this investment. They don't need that kind of money. But since it is not yet precisely decided whether or not it will now be because Lendava does not decide because they decide to assume, in particular Novartis, it would be very good for the Minister to tell these investors directly: See, Slovenia has an open economy, welcome foreign investors, we have direct incentives for foreign investment. That's right. The Cove is supposed to get a few million dollars. I'm not gonna talk right now because I don't know what to think. But to Lendava, for once, there's a stepmom relationship, if you have the Pomur Act. You know, with the Pomura Act, you can get a maximum of 500 thousand euros. Please! This investment will be around €70 million. I therefore invite the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Dejan jeidan, of my cousin, to correct that statement from September 2015 by concrete actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u153	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u154	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues! I am convinced that today we are witnessing another of those meetings aimed at discrediting the various projects of this government. I understand any debate as to where an investment is to be made. But we've talked a lot about wanting some kind of greenfield investment. We all know what that means. Of course, it is not negligible that this is first-class agricultural land, but today we have heard the necessary assurances that these will be properly compensated and that what is most valuable on agricultural land will be preserved. I think that this story, which goes primarily to the SDS party, is already very thoughtful. It's not the only thing, it's the only project that's opposed to it that's actively collapsing, let's say. One of them is this last, still current second track. If we want to move forward in this mandate, if this government wants certain things that have been in the drawers, they could also have been designed in the past, I feel that such a destructive policy of the opposition is returning us back to old times. I fear that instead of modern railways, one day we will be transporting the carriages again, wondering where the jobs are and who is to blame. Today I have heard even such, let's say, inappropriate comments, yes, and where we will provide jobs. On other committees, we talked about how many unemployed we have. These poor excuses that, in fact, only the current government's projects are being politically rejected, I see that the opposition is literally drawing out of the heel. All those who followed the adoption of this so-called lex Magna law, the Magna law, could see that at the time the SDS was actually very passive, not to say that it even supported this project. And then one shift overnight, probably, I don't know, the date of the next election came up and actually all the projects started to collapse in a row, regardless of the reasons or the reasons for the known reasons, which are actually some kind of political foreplay before the elections. I fear that such games will eventually be paid by our citizens, our taxpayers. We need to know that one such story as we are going to Parliament today, with such stories, is not expected by foreign investors. We are not even known for being a friendly country for foreign investors. We want it to be, we want it all the time. We want to follow certain Eastern countries, as well as attracting foreign investment, and then a foreign investor comes along and we wait for him like this. In the National Assembly a hundred meetings, a hundred reasons, for five reasons, how could we not, how could we change the location, how we might not like the painting room, we would have a different type of production. In short, it is more than obvious that all these investors can be very concerned about such debates. I am afraid that leaving one of the investors, we have heard that even eight more potential for some major investment, meant that in the eyes of such potential investors we would actually become one very undesirable destination. The excuses on whether there will be 400 jobs or there will be thousands are relatively irrelevant at the moment, given that the investor has provided 100 million for the investment. If I were to be a foreign investor and watch what is happening in this House, only 50 jobs could be provided for start-up. So I suggest that such meetings are not repeated. I believe that they have made sure that these lands are preserved, and not least that the investor, as is likely to do in other countries, will act with care and will also keep his promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u155	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u156	President, thank you for your word. On several occasions, I start my debate to look forward to economic issues in Parliament. I'm gonna do it again this time. But today's darkness, I could say that in my own way, I am also sad. On the other hand, while I am monitoring the debate, I think that all the citizens accompanying this meeting have been able to give themselves the impression that, with the debates, all the members of the coalition have shown above all that this is a strategically important project and that we have also disputed doubts today and have also, in some way, rejected the attempt to prevent some investment in Slovenia that would bring added jobs. However, we discussed some of the door locks and some of the fears of strangers at a night meeting yesterday, but I think today's last session is before the holidays through this prism that the topic is economic. When the audience accompanying this meeting recognises that some reason has prevailed and that this Parliament notes, and it is also clear from this debate that some of the proposals of envy, jealous of the good projects ahead of us, are trying to prevent some of the projects. I can't imagine how Slovenia, in some economic development, would be able to deal equally with competition if, for all projects in Slovenia, they were so picolovic about, say, determining some locations, in this case agricultural land. Let's imagine putting the road in Prekmurje. If it were not placed, Prekmurje could not develop as it develops. For some developmental opportunities, however, something must be sacrificed. Similarly, the third development axis is placed. Here, too, we must look at the macro-economic effects of a project and make a reasonable decision in favour of economic growth, jobs and all that it brings. I've given the Prekmur case several times. Odranci Municipality, the smallest municipality in Slovenia, which is also the largest per capita income. Why? Because we built the infrastructure there, the road, and the mayor was so wise he gave the investor the land. Of course, this land was agricultural too, but it's not working. For our better future, something must also be sacrificed, and in this case I think we are doing the right thing. But I will repeat this when I say repeatedly that Svetlana Makarovič says Slovenian, Slovenian. With us in Koroška, we could say "spylferbers." When we were playing kids, and if someone was guessing, you just said "spilderber." I think that the debate of my colleague Zorčič goes this way when the coalition, the President of the Government and ministers come with a good project, there are plenty of opportunities for extraordinary committee meetings, then the National Assembly and so on. I think that this practice must, however, be stopped and it must be recognised that this government, with ministers, produces good projects that bring economic growth, new jobs. From this point of view, I also assess here the Minister of the Jews as acting in a state-of-the-art manner. Although he represented the agricultural sector and probably loved it, he felt that something must be sacrificed for the development perspective in Slovenia in this case. That's what he did in this case. For the sake of good practice of the Ministry of Economy with teamwork, bringing all ministers together, let us support such projects and stop wasting time on such discussions as potential investors at home and abroad listen. I'm saying. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. Tanya Strnisha, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much. In the end, I want to say. Perhaps I will begin where Mr Ranc has also discussed. Every development requires more or less human intervention into the environment. As a society, we are all, the Government, the National Assembly, local communities, mayors, the civil public, as much as possible, obliged to protect all natural resources and, in particular, the agricultural land that is threatened by the natural resource in Slovenia and, on the other hand, the foundation of the nation's self-sustainment of food. We all agree on that in this Chamber. What seems crucial to me once again is that there was nothing else in this case. The municipality has ensured that this land is moved elsewhere and that the fields are made elsewhere where they are not now. And that's what we agreed to. I repeat, in this case we believe that a solution has been found to enable the development and preservation of this endangered source – the agricultural land. Thank you very much, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u159	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, for the last five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u160	Yes, very briefly. It's not an economic theme at all, because we're all united here. But it's a agricultural topic, and some of you obviously missed the title of the point. This is that we wanted to show that, above all, Minister Dejan Židan, Minister of Agriculture, is committed to duality. Sometimes he says one thing, sometimes he says another, but he still does it his way. And that bothers us. It is always his concern for agricultural land, but the first is when these agricultural land is degraded. Today, the distinguished Madam Secretary of State said: "We have done everything to make the fields elsewhere." What are you listening to? You're going to move the best agricultural land and now you're going to talk about how this is going to be better than it is now that the best agricultural land is there. A healthy farmer's mind, I admit, cancels on me. Why then — I would ask a very substantive question today because I would really be interested in the answer, and unfortunately I will not get it — why not leave the best agricultural land there and cut down the forest? And don't tell me you need to make an O.N. In any event, the UNO must do so. The State Spatial Plan does not make the country, but the congregation will make it. And then what's the problem with doing it? Yes, it is a strategically important project, where it turns out exactly that policy has decided to share among the first-class investors and among all others. We would like everyone to be first-class in the future, but not so that the project will not know where, when, how much, how much money and so on. Mr Horvat said, and I myself know these two cases about Lek when it was said from the Cabinet of the President of the Government that they would give some half a million if the President of the Government came to take pictures for the opening. So much for who's first-class and second-class. At the moment, the Minister of Agriculture allows such investors everyone, and on the other hand there are investors who do not get anything. They don't get the best locations on the best agricultural land; on the other hand, they don't get everything else. As was said, Minister Židan, instead of the protector of the best agricultural land, is becoming the best merchant with the first-class agricultural land. To begin with, we propose to run for Minister of Economic Development and leave the Ministry of Agriculture to someone who can handle Slovenian agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much to all the discussers. This also concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 2. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal is final. I conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17.35. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u162	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will carry out the following order of conduct: paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 24, 27 and 16 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code following the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act following the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Rail Safety following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, chairman. It would be really weird if I didn't come to this marriage on behalf of the Left. I would have called if I hadn't loved trains, railways, and railways so much. One day, the train leaves Kranj, the day before, the train wipes out in the Wall Bridge, I take a ride to the checkpoint, and 250 meters before the train dies, and we wait on the overheated train for two and a half hours. It's not funny, Mr. Chairman. The number of employees decreased by 20% in the decade, the union, we know who controls it, and the union beats the red star. Good day, Slovenia! In this marriage happens — what? Traffickers only took some of the labor rights they have in the marriage, in the company, watch out!, which is now in state property, so they can go to lunch for half an hour. The consequences are changes to this legislation. Today someone took the Constitution away from me in my office. What a society and country we live in! You're going to support this law? Some fundamental right of a worker in a relatively responsible job is not funny. [[…]] Here, the leader of the parliamentary group is laughing. To go to lunch for half an hour. They didn't even basically strike, they just took that right. But you know, in Old Austro-Hungarian, you could tell some historian, and I know that Vinko knows that, too, when the Eisenponers set off a white strike, everything stopped. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, in the United Levican we will vote against such a reduction of labour rights, against such legislation, against the fact that some of the basic labour rights that someone has are only in practice applied, and then the management of a state firm reacts by going to amend legislation. Please! We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u164	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Then he has an explanation in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, chairman. See, this law is the response and realization of the desire of the management of the Slovenian Railways to reduce the railways or passengers' working rights. In the meantime, the same manager clicks on his own company. The delays of Slovenian trains are plausible. I, too, had already missed my shift in the National Assembly because of the train's delays. Go to the top of the day, if possible when the students are moving and the students are moving, to the Ljubljana train station, and try to get a ticket sooner than in ten minutes. It won't work. This is not the fault of the working staff of the Slovenian Railways, which is the responsibility of the management staff of the Slovenian Railways, which has reduced the number of employees by 20% in recent years or in the last decade, as comrade Franjo told me. At the same time, the top of this bureaucratic pyramid of Slovenian Railways, Mr Dusan Mes, who cannot fund his own company, demands Luka Koper for some compensation, because workers there have been strikes, plotters to privatize Slovenian railways, but would like to privatize also Luka Koper and the second track. I will vote against this law, which came from the political hands of the Members, but it was designed by the incompetent leadership, the privatisation leadership of the Slovenian Railways.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u166	Explanation of voice in its own name, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. I will also clearly vote against such a non-social law, because it is absurd that this law is called the Railway Safety Act, taking employees the right to half-day rest, snacks and even to keep them driving a tow truck and motor vehicle for special purposes for a change of four hours, which suddenly moves to five hours – without compensation, without question. And that at the state firm, as your colleagues mentioned earlier. You know, if a private person who has to survive on the market or who is alone somehow sets up a company, it reduces the rights of workers. That this was happening Yes, it was a state of emergency when he was hungry, but the good will of the workers to agree to more difficult conditions in times of emergency, then to legislate that they must do so all the time, this is mildly immoral. [[…]] Of course, I will not support such a law and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u168	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 13. Seven. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended with the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour and none in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agriculture in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Agriculture Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Minimum Wages in the framework of the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Minimum Wages Act is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, chairman. See, the different departments that measure these key economic indicators show that we have economic growth there somewhere around 5%. In such an aggregate state, one would expect that one would not have to suggest to me anything like this to bring about a government, any government, and would say and adopt a very simple law, which I have already written here: the minimum wage in Slovenia will be 20% above the threshold of measured poverty. Then, of course, methodologically, we would examine this. And the first one who should be barking for this should also be the Chamber of Commerce. Now that eternal sociologist probably won't be there because he's a little different, because it should also be in the interests of the economy. After all, an economy that is increasingly based solely on the fact that people, the sausage workers who cut it, dig a grave to themselves and dig a grave to all the four public treasuryes that we decide about here or at least lay down the conditions of the goods. And what response is there when we suggest what should be done by any responsible government? They were most bent on some small, smallest party in the coalition to propose to the government super laws, what we're trying to do, why we're minning social dialogue, destroying and so on. Of course, we will be voting in Levica against this being not appropriate for further consideration, because, after all, this society is based on work. And those who work must also have a decent life with what has a mouthful, especially a SMC. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u170	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 9. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 18. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u171	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! There are 5 billion reasons for today's decision to set up a specialised branch of the Banking Crime Court. The EUR 5 billion was a bank hole and the police suspect that a billion euros, these 5 billion, were given problematic loans, so crimes. Both Prosecutor Furlan and Minister Klemenčič and ourselves, Parliament adopted a unanimous decision in December 2016 with 74 votes in favour of an interim report on the Bank and Probank that a specialised division of the Banking Crime Court should be held in that country. Those who have created a bank hole are right to be persecuted. It is up to us Members of the National Assembly that we do not really share left-to-right on this issue, because these gentlemen did not share left-to-right when they shared money when they could even bypass legislation. The money didn't stink for these people. In the National Assembly, there should be this unity in order to say unanimously that the time has come for these people to be condemned. For the people of the next generation will rightly ask themselves what was wrong with us as a country, that we did not condemn anyone responsible for the bank hole. No banker from that period is responsible for the EUR 5 billion that does not exist. Each taxpayer paid EUR 2 000 500 to cover this bank hole. It is today the responsibility of the National Assembly to support this law in the next procedure, where amendments can further improve. Once again, New Slovenia has not invented itself that we need this law. Members and Members of the National Assembly also gave reasons for the establishment of a special section of the Banking Crime Prosecution Court. And finally, as I have already said, Harry Furlan, who said that judges who are not specialists in this specific area – the prosecution of banking crime, do not know these issues and their cases fall into court. And I believe him. Okay. But if we believe him, then we have to do something today, and that is to make a decision to set up this special department.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u172	We're voting. Excuse me! Let me ask you first, is there anyone else on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u173	Dear Members and Members! I know you're nervous, and at the end of this explanation, I'm going to wish you a nice holiday, and we're all going to get our heads cold. But until then, we can make one important decision. By the end of 2016, 245 people had been contacted for banking crime, according to state institutions. Do you know how many people have been convicted, not yet legally, but convicted? Two cases. What do we suggest? In this law we have only proposed the establishment of a special court solely dealing with the prosecution of banking crime. In yesterday's debate, you said why this law was necessary, and this special court is not necessary. But if that were true, then of these 245 people, many more people would be convicted than just two. Yesterday, the Secretary of State said in his debate that when he challenged this marriage, he said, "What does it do to us if we have a certain number of clothes if we buy another closet?" I think it's very important that we put only the best clothes we need in this closet. And that is exactly what this law of ours is proposing to create a special specialised court that has in one place all the knowledge that it can effectively deal with banking crime. And one more thing. When I took a brief debate on social networks yesterday, many commented, yes, obviously Members do not want this banking crime to be fully investigated. Today you have a chance to prove otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u174	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 37 votes in favour and 34 votes in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u175	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order for things to come quickly to these special courts, we also need the best prosecutors trained within the specialized state prosecutor's office and therefore to be assigned to a special branch for the prosecution of banking crime. The analogy is exactly the same as in the special section of the court. In this way, prosecution of banking crime will be dealt with by prosecutors who, in fact, will not have other things, the most experienced, knowledgeable, and wisdom. For there are specific cases where only those who learn cannot do them. Some of the prosecutors we had at the bank inquiry committee's hearing also said: "Look, not everyone is familiar with this problem, which is so specific. Believe me,” they said, “those who have made a bank hole are very resourceful people, “lumps” who want to circumvent legislation, prosecutors and judges.” Of course, of course, of course. For this reason, we are giving the court more cases, one department in the prosecution, that prosecutors are solely involved in the prosecution of banking crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u176	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u177	I'm glad, obviously there's hope, so I'm grateful to all those who supported the previous marriage. Thank you very much. But I would like to point out that this marriage is a Siamese twin of the previous marriage. The previous law will allow special specialised courts, and this law will allow special specialised prosecutors. It is also crucial that the prosecution prepare the case properly to bring it properly before the court, so that the case is duly completed. And once again, the key point and key issue, the key practice or key issue in this specialised prosecutor's office will be that we will be able to gather all the experts we have in this area to prosecute banking crime in one place. I really hope that there is no mistake in the previous vote and that once again this vote will show that Members are very serious about the prosecution of banking crime. If this law is also adopted, thank you once again for a nice and truly beautiful holiday for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u178	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 31. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 31.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body.This concludes this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the situation in the field of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the situation of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u179	I understand the situation, President, but there's also a right. So there's also a right. We will vote against such a decision. Our recommendation is relatively clear. With our recommendation, we wanted to draw attention to the situation with regard to corruption and the criminal acts of corruption and related institutions, such as the Anti-Corruption Commission, which in particular has been in the past, is mainly applicable to Mr Klemenčič's period, in essence rather than to the Discretion Commission. I have repeatedly stressed in my performance, with practical examples also proving how this commission acted arbitrarily and how it actually reached right. On the left, everything was fine. And I've also listed a number of cases where the Commission has decided politically. There's nothing else we can say about this. I also drew attention to the fact that those countries that do not have institutions of the type of anti-corruption commission or any other institution of the same type, I mentioned Denmark and Sweden, have the lowest level of corruption, while those countries that have commissions such as ours have the opposite, in particular the Balkan and Moldova countries, have a higher level of corruption. In this regard, we have proposed certain conclusions. Decisions have not been adopted or are now being drawn up to conclude that the matter is not appropriate for further consideration. Of course, we must reject such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u180	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We turn to the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Would you like a representative of the proposer? Please. The text is given by the chairman of the commission, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Honourable representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. The National Assembly is in session 30. 1. 2015, at the request of Members, ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The Group of the Left, formerly the Group of the United Left, is by letter dated 26. 6. 2017 President of the National Assembly notice of change of name. In accordance with the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectricarium, the Left Party shall have one member and one alternate member on the Board of Inquiry. Mr Matjaž Hanžek was appointed as a member and chairman of the Commission at the proposal of the Levica Group. Following the departure of Mr Matjaž Hanžka from the Group of Ambassadors, the Group of Members, by letter of 5 shall be indicated. Seven. 2017 proposed that, within the framework of its quota in the Commission of Inquiry, Matjaž Hanžek continue to hold the post of member and chairman of the Commission as an unrelated Member. In view of the above, that decision should also be amended accordingly, taking into account the renaming of the Joint Left Group to the Left Group and taking due account of the status of the member and the President of the Commission, Matjaž Hanžka, as an unrelated Member, who continues to act as a member and on his/her associated role as President of that Commission on a proposal and within the quota belonging to the Left Group. In accordance with the above, the Mandate-Volution Commission shall meet at its 33rd emergency session. Seven. 2017 set out the text of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the Vice-President, members and alternates of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica, to be decided by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u182	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views? No, no, no. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Not at all. We then move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of foreign intelligence services abroad in Novi Ljubljanski, d.d. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Would you like a representative of the proposer? The text is given by the President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u183	Again, thank you very much for your word, President. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Assembly is in session 11. Seven. 2017, at the request of Members, ordered a parliamentary inquiry into the identification of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services abroad in Novi Ljubljanski, d.d. In the light of the above, the Commission called on the members of the parliamentary group to submit proposals on the number of members of the panel of inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services abroad in Novi Ljubljanska, d.d., and proposals by candidates for president, vice-president, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. On the basis of the call, the Commission received proposals from the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Left and the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats who proposed one candidate for a member and a deputy member. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre shall also propose a member as President. The Left Group, on the other hand, is its proposed member as Vice-President. In accordance with the above, the Mandate-Volution Commission shall meet at its 33rd emergency session. Seven. 2017 set out the text of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of suspected money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services abroad in Novi Ljubljanska, d.d., by which they are appointed members of the Commission of Inquiry: Jani (Janko) Möderndorfer – SMC Group, Ivan Hršak – Desus Group of Ambassadors, Matjaž German – SD Group of Members, Dr. Franc Trček – Emissary Group Levica, Jernej Vrtovec – New Slovenia's Group of Ambassadors; for members: Dr. Jasna Murgel – SMC Group, Benedict Kopmajer – Desus Group of Ambassadors, Matjaž Han – SD Group of Ambassadors, Violeta Tomić – Left Group and mag. Matthew Tonin – New Slovenia's Group of Members. The members shall be appointed President of Jani (Janko) Möderndorfer – SMC Group of Members, Vice-President Dr. Franc Trček – Group of Members of the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u184	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views? No, no, no. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Not at all. We then move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and the financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services abroad in Novi Ljubljanski, d.d. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed under the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Mr Domen Savič and Mr Miran Zupanič submitted to the State derogations from the seat of members of the Radio Television Programme Board of Slovenia. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly not to take note of the following conclusions on the basis of Article 18, paragraph 4, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Domen Savič is found to have resigned from the seat of a member of the Radio Television Programme Council of Slovenia, to which he was appointed under the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, and therefore, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 4, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, the mandate of a member of the Radio Television Programme Board of Slovenia is terminated. Another time. It is found that Miran Zupanič has resigned from the seat of a member of the Radio Television Programme Council of Slovenia, to which he was appointed under the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 4, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, the term of office of a member of the programme council of Radiotelevision of Slovenia is hereby terminated. I take it the National Assembly has come to the conclusion. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on integrated early treatment of preschool children with special needs under the regular procedure. On Tuesday, 11 July 2017, the National Assembly held the second draft law under consideration. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the draft law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you. Of course, we will support this law in Levica. In fact, we wonder why it was so late, why no previous references had been made. I can honestly say that I went to Milan earlier, and I said if Jasna called to give her the last word. Also on behalf of the Left, we personally thank Jasna for her personal involvement in this. I hope that now is your time to relax for what is the subject of your doctorate, human rights, because we're gonna need you here in Parliament. On behalf of the Left, I wish everyone a wonderful short holiday, and I hope that there will be as little understanding as possible between these holidays as possible, which we will also have to face with some systemic laws in the future, even though some think there are no climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u186	We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I conclude with this agenda item. Before concluding the meeting of the National Assembly, Members and Members, I ask that you take all the materials out of the Chamber for the start of parliamentary holidays and that on Tuesday, 5 September 2017, the General Secretary of the OECD and the two Vice-Presidents of the European Commission are scheduled to visit the National Assembly. All, in particular the services of the National Assembly, thank you for the work that has been done. I want a nice holiday for everyone. You've earned them, you've earned them, you've earned them, you've earned them, you've earned them, you've earned them, you've earned them, you've earned them. With these wishes, I conclude the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly.
