ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day together! I begin with the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs. Violeta Tomić from 10 a.m. to 14 p.m., Mrs. Irena Kotnik, Mrs. Vesna Vervega until 14 p.m., Mrs. Andreja Potočnik until 13 p.m., Mrs. Ksenija Korenjak Kramar from 12 a.m., Dr. Jasna Murgel, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Mr. Miha Kordiš from 15 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez to 11 p.m., Mr. Uroš Prikl from 12 p.m., Mr. Marjan Dolinšek to 13 p.m.m., Mr. Ivan Prelog from 12 a.m.m. Bojan Krajnc, mag. Alexander Kavčič since 1:00. We're moving to 2. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market and are compatible with the internal market. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Sashi Jazbec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u2	Your Honor! Thank you very much. Good afternoon. The proposed law contains only one provision empowering the Ministry of Finance to redistribute spending rights. In this way, the necessary means will be provided for the implementation of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia within the time limit set by that Act. On 8 September, the Government adopted the above-mentioned intervention law requiring, inter alia as a single measure, the payment of funds to cover expenditure on revenue from previous years in public health institutions amounting to EUR 136.24 million by 29 December of this year at the latest. Given that the law contained new obligations for this year's budget, the Minister responsible for finance proposed, in accordance with Article 40 of the Public Finance Act at the same meeting of the Government, a measure to suspend the implementation of the State budget. The government followed the proposal and adopted a decision on provisional detention. Article 40 of the ZJF provides that if expenditure increases during the financial year due to the emergence of new budgetary commitments, the Government may, on a proposal from the finance minister, suspend the execution of individual expenditure for a maximum of 45 days. The JJF also provides that if the budget cannot be balanced during the implementation of temporary suspension, the Government shall propose a balance not later than 15 days before the expiry of the suspension period. In a specific case, at the time of detention, we found that despite the new commitments, the state budget is not imbalanced, which means that the legal basis for the preparation of the budget balance is no longer. Article 41 of the ZJF provides that if, after adoption of the budget, a law or decree establishing new budgetary obligations is adopted, the Government shall include this obligation in the budget and shall determine the amount of expenditure for this purpose within the framework of the higher expected revenue and the extent of the commitment or the reallocation of funds under possible savings. In the case of intervention law, both conditions are met. The new obligations were created by law and this law was adopted after the implementation of the budget. In view of the fact that funds for the implementation of the intervention law can be provided through transfers under the adopted budget and that, despite the new commitments, the budget of the State is balanced, the proposed law confers a single mandate on the Ministry of Finance to redistribute, to the extent provided for in that law, the rights of use from those items where, during implementation, it has been established that they will not be used at the planned level. The proposed law therefore sets out in a transparent manner policies where spending rights will not be spent, the extent of rights that can be redistributed, and the purpose. The power conferred by law on the Ministry of Finance is not a general mandate, such as that given in the applicable law to the Government, the proposers of the financial plans and the ministries. This is a unique event to be carried out under the legal provision and does not allow any discretionary action to be taken by the Ministry. As a result, there is no need for a redistribution to be decided by the Government, since its decision is already expressed by the adoption of a proposal for this law. The reasons why spending rights remain in certain policies are, above all, a better economic situation than was foreseen in the preparation of the 2017 budget last autumn, i.e. a higher number of employees, making it necessary to ensure a lower transfer from the budget of the State due to the higher level of income than planned for the pension. The second reason is the slower absorption of cohesion funds at the level of the European Union, and since fewer cohesion funds will be spent this year, the Member States will therefore have to pay less in the budget than planned in the preparation of the budget. The third reason is that no court proceedings have been concluded this year to seek compensation from the Republic of Slovenia. The financial implications for the state budget have been the result of the adoption of the intervention law. The amendments to the law under consideration now merely lay the legal basis for the way in which funds are provided, since, given the scope of the obligations, both the Government and the Ministry responsible for finance would exceed, without an appropriate legal basis, the percentages allowed by the annual law regarding the redistribution of spending rights. That's why I suggest you support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Urški Ban. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you so much for the word. Nice greeting on my part, too! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 79th urgent session. 10. as a parent working body, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee also received opinions from the Legislative and Legal Services and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendments to Article 1 of the draft law have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Legal and Legislative Service also attended. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the proposed law contains only a provision granting the Ministry of Finance the power to redistribute spending rights and providing the necessary means to implement the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia totalling EUR 136 million 240 000 by the end of 2017. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service had made comments to Article 1 in its written opinion and said that all comments of the services had been duly taken into account by the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. The debate raised an introductory question about the exact source of funds for reallocation, to which the State Secretary replied that payments to the European Union amounted to approximately EUR 25 million, from pension protection of approximately 77 and from the obligation under the judicial decisions of some EUR 34 million. The following mentioned as problematic redistribution of funds by the law under consideration and the fact that the legal basis for reallocation already exists, based on Article 41 of the Public Finance Act, should the Government be allowed an appropriate percentage of reallocation by the Law on the implementation of the budget. The Secretary of State explained that the Government has the option of redistributing the budget under the current Law on the Implementation of the Budget only within certain frameworks, in which the debate expressed an opinion that a higher percentage of the reallocation of funds should therefore be allowed to the Government. The Secretary of State stressed that this was a unique case where the Government had adopted a proposal to authorize the Ministry of Finance to make a certain redeployment, i.e. for a specific purpose and for specific items. Among other things, the discussion expressed support for the proposed law, in terms of the purpose of spending resources on health, which is financially maintained in Slovenia. The opinion was also expressed that this issue would be better addressed by adopting a budget rebalancing which could also implement the Committee's decision on education, science, sport and youth to provide additional resources for research activities in the 2017 budget rebalancing. The State Secretary explained that this amount of 9 million is not a legal obligation, but it is on the priority list and, if the spending rights remain for this purpose, the Government has the power to redistribute the amount already in force under the current law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1 and adopted it. He then voted on both articles together and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, all present, welcome! The amendment of the Budget Implementation Act 2017 and 2018 is ahead of us, due to the law of the already adopted Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions. The financial implications of the proposed amendment are slightly more than € 136 million. Quite a large amount to be provided by the Government by redistributing the funds from the items in the justice system, from pension protection and payments to the EU. Of course, the material concerned us in particular with the explanation that, in order to draw up the EU-level cohesion funds, it would be necessary to pay less into the EU budget than was planned in the preparation of the 2017 budget. EU funding is indeed extremely poor, and we have only absorbed a good 5 per cent of the resources available, and almost four years of this financial perspective have passed. But of course it's a topic for any other point. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we did not support the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions. The reasons for this are clear; you intend to rehabilitate those institutions that have created a loss without being responsible for the losses incurred. By means of rehabilitation, you intend to reward those institutions that have done bad, without preparing measures to ensure that losses will no longer occur in the future. We also did not support the Law on Intervention Measures because of this change, no patients will be in line first, no waiting period will be reduced, and in particular the fact that no director or ministry will be responsible for the losses that allowed for further losses in 2016 is unacceptable. At the end of 2016, there were about 300% more losses than in 2015. Public health institutions do not have courts and rules for the sharing of revenue and expenditure between public and market activities, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we ask ourselves how you can cover only losses in the public service through intervention law. We have not even received an answer to this question in the examination of the intervention law. We regard the adoption of the intervention law as an extremely irresponsible act and an amendment to the law which was created as a result of such a law, of course we cannot support it, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u7	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Law on Intervention Measures in September to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, which also provides for the payment of funds to cover revenue surpluses over revenue from previous years. This will relieve the liquidity spasm in hospitals so that they can operate more easily. While the government has planned a high degree of caution in the preparation of the 2017 budget, the number of employees continues to improve, as well as economic growth. The proposal for a law before us therefore places the right to spend up to EUR 136 million on the item in the new sub-programme on secondary and tertiary health care. The funds will be redistributed from the items in the Justice, Pension and EU policies. In view of the higher level of income from the pension fund planned, it will be necessary to provide less from the country's budget than planned. In addition, we will pay less in the EU budget than planned, and this year no finalisation of the judicial proceedings requiring compensation has taken place. Remember, the May novel ZIPRS provided for the possibility of redistribution of funds from pension protection policy items, public debt servicing and payment to the EU. Prior to this, the reallocation of funds under these items was not allowed because the funds to cover these obligations could also be provided by additional borrowing. However, because of the Fiscal Rule Act and certain expenditure ceilings, funds to cover these obligations may only be provided through redeployments. By adopting the bill, we will ensure the financial stability of public health institutions. Hospitals will no longer be in a liquidity crisis and will be easier to operate. In the Desus Group, we believe that this is absolutely necessary, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018 is in fact the result of the adopted intervention law, in which we legislated 136 million euros of high recovery of accumulated losses in public hospitals. Of this, of course, the main proportion falls away from the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. The new Law on the Enforcement of Budgets seeks to regulate the procedure so that these 136 million will also actually come to the hospitals that need these funds to cover losses. The legal basis for the provision of funds within the existing budget is laid down in Article 41 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that, if the budget is adopted, the Government will include new liabilities in the budget or on the basis of higher expected receipts in individual budget items or areas or by redistributing funds under possible savings. This option is thus in fact given in the field of justice, pension protection and the payment of funds to the European Union. The dilemma was, at least on the Committee, a dilemma, how to carry out this mandate given by the Public Finance Act or within the framework of an increase in the limit the Government has to allocate. This would be one of the possible solutions, so that we would raise the limit that the Government has when it allocates funds, of course, explicitly and only for this case, not for the general conduct of the Government in the availability of funds for 2017. It took the view that the Government would prefer to empower the Ministry of Finance to redistribute EUR 136 million from the budget lines I mentioned and thus ensure that the obligations arising from the adopted law can be covered. To this end, it is still possible to understand all these procedures, and it is a little more difficult to accept the fact that science does not receive such obedience. This is also where the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth adopted a concrete decision proposing to the Government that it provide additional funding for research activities in the 2017 budget rebalancing. It is EUR 9 million, which is not the subject of this Budget Implementation Act, although it could be, we expect, because the Government has transferred the power to the Ministry of Finance to have sufficient space available within existing powers under a certain limit in the Public Finance Act, that it will also implement and provide additional money for science this year, and thus, in particular, ensure the autonomy of research work, which is crucial for our future development. Only a novel of the Law on the implementation of the budget for the years 2017 and 2018 will we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Dear Madam Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018 gives the Ministry of Finance the power to redistribute funds for the implementation of the Law on Intervention Measures in order to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. Under this law, it is intended to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, and the law provides for a substantial financial injection of EUR 136 million. This is supposed to cover approximately 80 % of the losses incurred by public health establishments on 31 January. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In New Slovenia, we note that the bill only extinguishes the fire of the current state in some public health institutions. The solution for Slovenian health system, which would work according to the measure of man and shorten the unacceptable long waiting species, has been waiting and waiting for years. For a long-term solution, it is necessary to change the way the work is done, to draw up a good and realistic plan for the recovery of losses, to prevent corruption and to restore the reputation of the public health institution. Ladies and gentlemen, we have top-notch doctors, we have excellent nurses, nurses and other staff. Unfortunately, however, we have a health system that inspires the expertise and warmth of all of these. New Slovenia has already prepared a proposal for health reform. We know that health care is changing, that we have new treatments that require new forms of organisation. We know that the Institute of Health Insurance has a monopoly, while in New Slovenia we propose more competitiveness in the area of services and health insurance. By increasing competitiveness – I stress, competitiveness – the quality and supply of services will also increase, which will help the patient to have better conditions so that he can choose his own insurance company and also the doctor where he wants to be treated. With the model proposed in Nova Slovenije, insurers have the option of choosing between domestic, foreign, public and private operators under the same conditions. An insurance undertaking should be able to choose health service providers according to its needs, either according to the quality of the services, the waiting period, distance from its place of residence or according to the provider’s references. This is also the key to the elimination of waiting species. We want health care that's available to everyone. The Law on the Implementation of Budgets, which is now before us, is not a system law, as is usually heard from any government representative. Such laws have been quite something lately, especially too much. Let me just remind you of the law of lex Magna, lex Mercator and so on. The law interferes with the already adopted budget, which is certainly unusual. The proposal of this law mainly points to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not manage the situation in the country well enough and therefore tries to put out fires with intervention and non-systemic laws. After more than three years, at least we in New Slovenia would expect much more from this government than that; we expected more than cosmetic repairs. We will not support the bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u13	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u14	Good-bye! The proposed law releases €136 million for hospital rehabilitation. We support this rehabilitation in Levica, and we point out two; for the first time, the losses of hospitals are due to the poverty of public health in the last governments, namely the governments of Borut Pahor, Janez Janša, Alenka Bratušek and now the government of Mir Cerar. Another time. The government is still under-funded for health care and therefore we have long waiting periods, and large hospitals continue to hit minus. The first thing to tell citizens is that the losses are not caused by corruption, as we like to hear, but by the failure of austerity measures. In times of crisis, governments should strongly reduce the protocol, bureaucracy, military operations abroad and so on, but instead they went towards reducing hospital revenues. Hospitals have treated more patients every year, but they have been paid less and should therefore not be interpreted for populist reasons that corruption is responsible for the losses. Yeah, corruption is a problem, but we're not going to solve this problem by starving health care. If we really want to cut through inflated supplier commissions, we need to set up a public company to buy medical supplies. Citizens must be honestly told that more public money will have to be spent on health. Pika. However, I warn you that Cerari's government is committed to arms and protocol. If I support this with two examples; in the 2018 budget, €48 million was planned for investments in hospitals, the government will withdraw €10 million in the revised budget. Where's that money gonna go? Among others, the Government will now redirect €21 million on behalf of the Presidency of the European Union, which will take place in just four years, for the restoration of protocol facilities in Brdo, even though it has only been 10 years since a new facility was set up there. And this is a school example of how the government takes €21 million from citizens' health lines to invest in the luxury of politicians and diplomats. And it's not a lonely case! The government will spend €207 million on purchasing new patriots, while hospitals will continue to seek money for emergency medical equipment with sponsors and donors. And that's not all! The government plans to use 1.2 billion euros to arm two battalion groups. Why? Not because Slovenia would be at any military risk, but because these are some of NATO's goals for Slovenia. And whenever the interests of NATO and the European Union are contrary to the interests of Slovenia, which happens quite often, our governments give priority to foreign interests over the well-being of their own citizens. If the government were to come out of the needs of Slovenian citizens, then it would devote EUR 1.2 billion to modernising hospitals, health homes, homes for the elderly and so on. And it is not true that such a thing would not be possible for any other reason. Such policies, for example, are being implemented in our northern neighbour Austria. Austria devotes less of its public resources to the military than Slovenia and can therefore devote more to health. If we don't do this with us, we will have a super expeditionary army that Americans will be able to send from Afghanistan to Latvia, where they will enjoy it, but we will also have a health system that will no longer cover the basic needs of the population. Finally, I repeat my call to the Government and the Ministry of Health. There's not enough health personnel in our hospitals right now. And cleaners, chefs and other urgently needed personnel have already worked too many times through various exploitative companies. Sanitation of hospitals must not be a reason for the dismissal of health workers or for the promotion of outsourcing of support staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u15	Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u16	Good-bye, everybody! Let me begin by saying that we will not support this law in our parliamentary group. Why? Because this is not how public finances are managed. This is a very non-transparent procedure, which is contrary to what Mira Cerar and his government promised when they were writing a coalition contract. At that time, they wrote that transparency and the so-called programme budget would be something they would look forward to. There's nothing left of it. 140 million, with one swing, we redistribute the rules applicable to everything else for one purpose. Of course, it's kind of ironic when the secretary of state says it has to be done because you or we have passed a law that provides 140 million to health care. But this law was proposed by the Government, the minister then said that it would require a balance of the state budget, which would be the only right way. Today we are here where we are; it is said that you simply enter into the law that the Ministry of Finance can pick up money wherever it remains, regardless of what was adopted in the National Assembly. And of course that's not right. The health system or subcontractors or not subcontractors, suppliers of our health system are likely to reasonably expect these almost €140 million because they have supplied things, goods and so on and have not received them paid. But it's a fact that with these 140 million there won't be any patients in line before. Waiting lines will not be shorter nor will the waiting period shorten, which is bad. Second of all, don't think it's a unique event. You did not cover total losses in our health care until 2016. You covered 80 percent of this, and if you look at numbers, losses – and this strong, the largest in the last 10 years – they also occur in 2017. So this is some kind of fire-fighting action that's needed, far from solving the problem. What gets me most in the eyes is the source of where you're going to get this money. The maximum share of this 140 million will be taken from the pensioners. 77 million euros, this is what the half-yearly budget implementation report shows, unfortunately you will take away the pensioners. The National Assembly provided money for the payment of pensions. These 77 million could — if not to say — be spent on pensions. This is 130 euros, if we calculate the average, 130 euros per pensioner. Instead of taking the money that is provided for pensioners or pensions so quickly today, we could write in this same law that, given that pensioners contributed greatly to the savings during the crisis, there was no money there; we assured them that they were not falling. I think that for that time it was the most we could have done; but today we could have divided what was provided for them in the budget. But no! You've decided to take these 77 pension millions, give them to health care, and reduce your pensioners to 130 euros each. That's why I've also tabled an amendment that would draw this line in the law. It is said that the payment of pension rights cannot reduce the funds. I hope, fellow Members and colleagues, that those who talk a lot about pensions and pensioners, that you will withdraw with me and vote in favour of this amendment and then accept the law that will give the pensioners this year the 130 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u17	Ms Urška Ban will present the position of the Group of Members of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! This time, the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets refers to only one substantive area which is affected by the existing Article 27 of the Act, which deals with transfers decided by the Ministry of Finance. The existing provision is extended by granting the Ministry of Finance a one-time additional power to redistribute spending rights to the extent necessary for the implementation of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore a matter of providing resources for the state budget to cover expenditure on revenue or losses from public health institutions in recent years, totalling EUR 136 million 240 000. The Act of Interventions adopted the National Assembly last month and as a single measure also provides for the payment of funds to cover losses from previous years not later than 29 December of this year. The Government has decided to propose today's amendment to the National Assembly to provide the necessary resources for the implementation of this measure. At the time of the adoption of the Law on Interventions, the Minister of Finance said that the Government had also adopted a decision to suspend the implementation of the budget, as provided for in Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, due to the volume of new commitments for the budget of the State to be provided for the purpose of the transfer of health services. This article also refers to the fact that if the budget under the measure adopted cannot be balanced, the Government must propose a budget balance, i.e. the rebalancing follows the measure of suspending the implementation of the budget in the event of a new commitment to an unbalanced budget. However, since in this case the means to implement the intervention law can be provided by reallocations of spending rights under the already adopted budget, so the budget with this redistribution will not be imbalanced but can be implemented within the same framework as the National Assembly has adopted, there is no need for a rebalancing. The ZIPRS paper thus sets out those budget lines where, during the implementation of the budget for this year, it has been found that spending rights will not be spent at the planned level. These are three budget lines: transfer to the pension fund, payment to the EU budget and compensation payments. Allow me to briefly explain why the lower transfer to the pension register, as well as the proposed amendment. As a result of the higher number of employees and higher economic growth, i.e. a better economic situation, as foreseen in the preparation of the 2017 budget, pension accounts for higher source income and therefore for this reason a lower transfer should be provided for the State budget. This does not mean that the pensioners will receive less money or that there is no way that we are taking anything from them. On the contrary; as I have already said, in view of macroeconomic forecasts, a certain transfer from the state budget to the pension fund was made at such a level that it would be balanced. However, since the labour market has proven to be on the rise during the year, more people have jobs and, as a result, more people are paying contributions, a transfer from the state budget to the pension fund is needed. In addition, between 2014 and 2016 the level of pension allowance was close to 5 billion, while this year it is estimated that 5 billion 160 million euros will be paid for pensioners and in 2018 5 billion 381 million. Thus, money for pensioners is more in 2017 and 2018. It is true, however, that not all austerity measures have been fully released for both pensioners and other groups. We must be aware that we still have a deficit in both the state budget and the state sector, and it is therefore responsible that the measures introduced during the crisis are being phased out. They are gradually released both in pensioners and in other areas; savings in wages, transfers to individuals and households, family policy, social transfers and so on are also being released. All these measures are gradually returning to all citizens what was taken from them during the crisis, so they are aimed at people. We estimate it's the only way. In the SMC Group, we believe that without the additional budgetary resources provided by this law, the smooth implementation of the public health service would be compromised. The proposed Law on the implementation of the budget in a fully transparent manner lays down the legal basis for providing financial resources for the rehabilitation of public health institutions, as provided for by the intervention law, and does not jeopardise the objectives we have set ourselves towards the long-term sustainability of public finances, so we will support it in our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I can see that. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Vice President. We just want to do something again with this amendment. We want to prevent the money provided for pensions and pensioners from being redistributed elsewhere, that's all. The National Assembly has determined how much the State budget can contribute to pensions. Indeed, in the pension box it is due to economic growth, good economic growth, economic activity of money more, which is very good and we must be happy and we are. But this does not mean that what the National Assembly has already given to Slovenian pensioners would not be distributed. Yes, a law should be adopted to ensure that these 77 million are also transferred on a one-time basis to where they were intended. Of course, I have to remind again here that pensioners are still subject to austerity measures, although the promise will also apply in 2018 and 2019 when we talk about regression payments, it will still be paid at five instead of two levels. I do not understand why, if we record almost 5% of economic growth in Slovenia. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I appeal to you to support this amendment of mine and to adopt together a law that will give these 77 million euros to the pensioners where they are going.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Mag. Andrei Shircelj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We do have a lot of problems with this marriage. Here I mean both professional and substantive problems. The first issue is that in my opinion the order of adoption of laws should be reversed; whether both laws – that is to say and the law, which actually decides to give the health treasury an additional 136 million and, of course, a method of financing – should be dealt with together in the same period of time. The next substantive problem, if this one is of a more formal nature, is that nothing will happen in health care. A minute's waiting period won't be shorter. Nothing's gonna happen. Which means that we are simply using this measure to put out the fire caused by poor management and poor management of health institutions in the country. Not only that, but also the control mechanisms in health care institutions did not work to point out this earlier in order for something to happen earlier. Here the Mira Cerar government has been predicting health reform for three years, and I will say that there is no need for reform, only changes. Nothing happens; nothing happens to those who are sick. They have no better health care because of this, and in three years they have received nothing better, rather worse than better. Regardless of whether the Government has proposed new legislation, regardless of whether the Government is simply this legislation, I will say, somehow failed through the National Assembly and we have adopted it here and we already knew in advance that this legislation is not optimal, but that it is bad. Health professionals, including health care professionals and so on, in the coalition, had great reservations about this. But with these 126 million — once again — nothing will happen to the patient, to the patient. That, I'll say, is some trauma that this government, the government of Mira Cerar, simply cannot do. She's not capable! She's not capable of doing anything for people. Another thing that is actually emerging here is that it is taken from the budget money which is intended for pensions. As a result, pensions will not be reduced. The pensioners carried the main burden during the crisis. The main burden. And even now, they're not getting it back. Not that they haven't got it back. But they haven't even agreed on their pensions. [[…]] To the level where the government boasts that we have 3%, 4% economic growth and so on. Which means nothing to people, these are numbers this time! This economic growth means nothing to the pensioners. Although they can listen to television or radio, they read newspapers about the boom, they do not know that in their retirement. And it is true that this measure will not reduce the pension. Look who's saying this is the biggest cynic. And whoever knows about it is the greatest cynic. They're supposed to increase their pensions! And it would actually bring this 70 million to an increase in or increase in the budget so that pensions could be increased. That's why we're not gonna talk, because we're not gonna take anything from the pensioners. All the governments that have been have taken the most from the pensioners and have not yet given them what they should have given them. Look, we should give them dignity! We should symbolically say that we will now pay the pensioners back so much and so much. We should give it to them and thus do not give the pensioners in a symbolic way what they should actually get. On the other hand, they do not improve health services by doing so. Who are the greatest — to say the contrary, I apologize to everyone — health - care users? Yes, senior citizens! On the one hand, we will give 136 million, which will not happen to them, nothing will improve the service, and on the other hand we will not give them what we should actually get. Because of this law and such a solution in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot support it. We can't! For a number of reasons. But this government is proposing it. Look, at least symbolically do something so that these things don't happen. If we're going to do some accounting stuff here, let me put it this way, from one cashier to another cashier's office, a little more from one to the other, so on. Look, the pensioner doesn't know if he got a pension from the budget or he got it from the pension institution. The money, I say; the money that the pensioner gets is made up of: part of the budget and part of the cash register. Retirement is a pension, but it doesn't matter. So here I think that the coalition has actually lost the compass to actually doing some measures just to make them work, so that the entire health system will not actually collapse because healthcare providers will no longer be supplying health material to patients because they are so indebted. If this 136 million is not provided, the health system will actually collapse. So I think it's still a few months, I don't know if I can make any more of this government, or if it can't do anything else, but what it does, I think it's simple: for the first time, illogical, I don't speak non-systematicly, immorally, unethically and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, and then we continue. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I think there are so many untruths that I don't say anything worse, and I really need to respond. Again, I will say that the former governments – if you say that the responsibility of the ministry – have been produced because we have received a system that has had 132 million euros in unrecovered losses. And I'm not going to go down because there's been enough said and analysis done on why these losses occurred. I have also said several times that, of course, one part of responsibility, but a small part of it can also be inefficient or inoperable management of public institutions — but we know what kind of system we have in 1991. But to tell Slovenian viewers, listeners and the public and to deceive them that it is nothing for patients. Please! If suppliers stop the supply of prosthetics of hips, frames, knees, medicines and other matters – we have already faced the Topolšica case when I had to ensure from the Ministry's own resources that there was no blockade. Yeah, but isn't that for patients? We would not be able to shorten waiting periods if the suppliers did not pay in time to install artificial hips, shoulders, knees, and the like. Not to mention medicines, such and other, innovative ones. I think it's really very unfair to say that this is for suppliers, that it's not for patients. Of course, because of the unreasonable or professionally unwarranted price cuts that have occurred in the past during the crisis – and I can also understand a lot of this – it has also resulted in longer waiting periods, because, of course, it was not enough to say, and the supplies, investments that I am not talking about the human resources policy. I strongly reject such untruths that they are not for patients. And that's why there's no better functioning of the system. As a result, we have also drawn up an intervention law because we want long-term rehabilitation programmes to be prepared, to introduce greater responsibility as well as stimulating rewards and to stabilise this system. But you know what I have already told you in the National Assembly many times, how enormously we are to increase our compensation for the hospital over 30 days, and that when we are talking about losing in 2017, if you want to use this term. [[…]] Why? Due to the decline in the level of service assessments in 2014. And only in the last two years have more referrals and more checks and interventions in hospitals been made for 15 percent. Let's make some arguments and show the real picture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u25	Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek, then we have another replica of mags. It spreads, but then I'm going to start the application procedures, because I see there's a lot of interest in the debate. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you, but, Madam Secretary, we need to listen to what we're saying here. I said no one's gonna be on the front line for this money, and that the kind won't be any shorter, and the money goes to the suppliers. Yeah, those are the facts. If someone's telling the truth, put the mirror in front of you first. You're talking about price cuts. This year they're lower than the last three years. And who is the minister at this point, and who is running the government at this point? You're kidding, kid, out of our people and out of our patients. Why did the losses come about? In your term of office, two-thirds of these losses are due to the fact that you've increased your salary, and you haven't provided any money for that. These are the facts. And first of all, you have to look at if you're talking about the untruths, you're talking about yourself, you're standing in front of a mirror and you're telling people these things. And don't fool! These are the facts that prove the numbers. The losses in your mandate are two-thirds of all losses, and this year they also arise. Who's gonna cover this? For three years nothing has been done for health care. I always say it isn't and it can't be all the fault of this government and this minister. But she's definitely guilty and responsible for the last three years. Guilty and responsible, but today we're only talking about money, how money will be guaranteed. This marriage has already been on the agenda, so I myself have focused my basic debate on something else to take the money away from the pensioners and put it in health care. This is a fact that stems from this law, but I had to come forward at such a performance by the Minister. There's a lot of things out of this show.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u27	Mag. Spreadel, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I don't know if the secretary got me wrong or if she just said she didn't understand me, but then she repeated what I said. I said the health system would collapse if it didn't get this $136 million. She said that it was for suppliers to ensure further work of the health system, mentioning hips and so on. But look, we're talking about the same, distinguished minister. And that's for the patients, that's enough for the patients to work in health care. Because if they don't get that money, it won't work. We totally agree here. And I said it. That's all. And the other thing is, it's about reassignment, and I'm not going to say it again. But the waiting periods will not be any shorter because of this, the health care will not be any more quality. I don't know. That's why I didn't. Maybe because of some other action. And yes, all governments - I agree. I have no problem with that – all governments. But your part of it is to exclude what is your share and your losses that you have produced here. Well, not just that! Look, you're a minister, and you just have to have every minister solve some things, clean them up, and so on. [[…]] Because life doesn't end and it starts again when one government changes. In no country or country has this ever happened to us. It's just that every minister gets his inheritance back. And he knows it in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u29	Colleagues, colleagues, I invite you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! Instead of the introduction: if the Minister, the Minister, and, of course, the Member, the Member of Parliament speak here, it is necessary to be precise. If we're operating on numbers, we need two decimals exactly. I'm starting to have a lot of excuses and fingertips on some of the previous governments. As it is said, the Minister has said that, of course, I agree that the previous governments are also responsible for this loss. I agree with that! Now, please, because I want numbers: How much did the government help this 165-million loss in last year, which worked the entire mandate from 2004 to 2008, when we, Nova Slovenija, had Dr. Andrej Bajuk's financial minister? I'm really asking in the structure of this loss how guilty we are. Come in. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a pen that says 136m euros in analgesic, 136m euros. And now with this syringe, the Ministry of Finance will go from institution to institution and will inject each one of them with a specific dose. And the pain will stop. That's how analgesics work. Then what's next? Did we cure the disease, cure the disease? We didn't! What do we need to treat the disease? We need system laws, we need reform of the health system. Well, reform is a very unsympathetic word and a lot of people don't accept it. We need to modernise the health system. The OECD, the Secretary-General, sat here a while ago, said in his reports that there are too many past, perhaps socialist elements in our health system. We need to fix this. It's over now. The mandate of this government has expired. It's over! This work, such reform measures, is being done at the beginning of the mandate. The solutions were on the table, but there was no listening! There was also no obedience to the solutions of opposition New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. We got a lot of engagements, round tables, experts, outside, domestics, listening, writing, drawing, simulating. No! No! We were practically one year in the waiting line outside the Minister's door to present our solutions. I believe that not all solutions are acceptable to all because we are different because we have parliamentary democracy. Indeed, I would like to reiterate that it is on the Committee on Finance when we discussed this Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, and I have heard that the Minister of Finance said: “There will be a need for a rebalancing.” Obviously this will not happen and now we are going through this very interesting, non-systemic Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. This translates everything; from the contribution to RTV to analgesics for health institutions. This one endures everything, this is an amazing marriage, and of course no one has the money to change it. It is true, for my view of New Slovenia, that money is also taken from pension protection items, which is written here and what we know and what is written in the amendment and this amendment has actually received my great attention. Every month, I practically monitor how pensions move. In the office of the Member, if there is only an opportunity, if I am at home – but lately very little, because we are all day, we are here all week, actually, in the National Assembly, and we do not have time for Members to contact our citizens to listen to their plight even more. The fact is, in the last decade, pensions have fallen by about 16 percent. What does that mean? If in 2007 the pensioner held EUR 100 in his hands, then today, in 2017, the pensioner does not hold up more than EUR 100, but only 84. And my heart breaks when I look at statistics! You'll say I don't have the latest data. Maybe not the last one, but I have August 2017. You have or all of us have about 105 thousand people who take over, who get different pensions, but they're under 500 euros. Some also have less than €200, some of which have – and such are 27,000 who have a pension of between 200 and 300 euros. Yeah, you'll say they haven't worked in 40 years – so what? This is the real situation, ladies and gentlemen, with us. Even though we give a billion, almost a billion and a half out of the social transfers budget! We need to talk about this! And then, of course, when we talk about it, we are also immediately in need of a change in the modernisation of the pension system. Thank God, I now hope that this government will also comply with the European regulation, which introduces, in fact, the same way as New Slovenia, that this regulation provides special support, especially for the third pension pillar. As you know, as we do, New Slovenia has a solution to the pension system, this is a so-called three-step pension system, similar to the Swedish one he wrote about, namely, that he wrote and performed about Sweden, I think at one round table the State Secretary from the competent ministry of pensions also assessed it as a model that could be acceptable to our country. And now to these pensioners that I will not now read the whole table, which some only have €5 to survive the day, or €10 to survive the day, of course, at all life-related costs – energy and so on, municipal costs and so on. We have to keep these in front of our eyes. There is no change, there are 105 000 of them, as reported by statistics with less than EUR 500 pension. And nothing happens. We are also taking these to fill up, as it is called, with a syringe with an analgesic for health care institutions! I myself agree that directly from this financial injection, which will be given to public health establishments, it will not feel that waiting types are immediately reduced. Then how did the health system work, since the balance sheets had to be adopted there in February, March, then a loss — 165 million about — was found for last year? Look, it's seven months from March to October. How did they work at that time? And it's a miracle that the suppliers didn't leave because liquidity is probably devastating in these institutions. And it is true that people will understand who are listening to us, surely the Founder must cover this loss. Yeah? Of course! And he'll cover the next year. We will have an intervention law 2.0 and a third year we will have an intervention law 3.0 and these millions going into it because the system, as I said in my position, the soul, the health system of the soul of our excellent, excellent doctors, heart, nurses and other staff and so on. The system is stifling them not to talk about it again now, because one of them is going to jump back into the air, so that we should engage more private funds for the public, I underline, public health system. But that means modernizing the health system, urgent health reform. But of course this is now a topic, content for the next term. It's over now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u31	Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u32	Thank you, Chairman. There's some stuff coming together, so I'm just gonna go straight to the point. For starters, for the first time, all of a sudden there are a bunch of friends of pensioners in this national council. Yeah, then how come so many of our pensions are below the poverty threshold or so low that our pensioners don't get away for a month, but if you're all such friends of pensioners and now you're retired? Because usually, even when you are in government, you are running out of time in your actions, because in the words of the National Assembly, everything is full of you. For example, with the ZUJF, the other Yangtze government has taken or reduced pensions for 26 thousand pensioners. Then he raised his hands for it Desus, and then New Slovenia's colleagues raised their hands for it and so on. The current pension law was also passed in the same constellation of political forces. Of course, the story is quite similar with customers who are considered to be center or left - centre customers. Another time. This amendment, which we have on the table, see; the maximum expenditure in the healthcare system, in the services are incurred for the needs of pensioners, which is clear and normal and another reason why we need a solid public health system and not a private, market-based one. With this amendment, basically, that's why – what? Takes a pensioner to get a pension. Obviously, if we don't raise 136 million euros for hospitals here, they're going to get down. Pika. And then we will – what? Did they throw away patients at the door? Are you starting to charge the drugs? Look, this isn't working. At the same time, these 77 million euros in the budget would not have been given to pensioners in any way, because even if they had not used it to rehabilitate hospitals, this would not have been known in pensions. Why? Because this 77 million euro is a surplus because the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has had higher revenues this year than planned. This title reduces transfers from the budget but does not raise pensions. That is why 77 million euro remains unexploited, not because someone would have lost their pension. Here you all know that I am a great advocate for the lowest pensions to be raised, that these funds are derived from the contribution paid out of salaries, i.e. from additional capital contributions, as it once was. But with such a measure, unfortunately, greater solidarity will not be achieved and we will not achieve a greater impact on pensions either. Slovenian pensioners, even the majority who have poor pensions, know damn well what solidarity is. Purely specific figures in this case, 77 million euros — hypothetically, if possible — would be taken to hospital rehabilitation and distributed among the 615 thousand people who receive various forms of pensions. Everyone would get 125 euros, none of these people would be much better, but all pensioners and all of Slovenia's inhabitants would be damned if hospitals would start rejecting patients or charging medicines. And it is the pensioners who need the most health care and are in the most organic, life-saving interest of getting the hospital's losses repaired. If we do not do so, it will happen sooner or later, that they will be suppliers, these are capitalists, that we understand who are interested in profit and nothing else, stop the supply of medical materials or store their prices or in any way compensate for this loss at the expense of the people. And under the line, patients will be killed in any case; the first of them will be pensioners. This amendment seems to be getting things wrong. Good hospitals are just as vital for pensioners as good pensions. Where the problem really lies, Slovenia, as a country, spends too little money on health care and pensions. This is because all former governments, including the government of today's proposer or proposer, do not wish to tax capital and high wages fairly. And because all the former governments, including the amendment's proposer, systematically follow the interests of NATO and the European Union, the well-being of their own citizens is in a different way. Then they spend on protocols, on bureaucracy, on the acquisition of military iron and on sponsoring military industrial complexes, and they run out on as many living things as this health care, such as pensions. In short, what I want to say is that the entire political class puts pensioners and even those in a poorer material position, working classes, in the second plan, in the third plan, or even makes them the target of their actions, and then, when the elections come, they all fly a benefactor. When the welfare of the working classes needs to be defended in Brussels, before the leaders of NATO and the European Union and those eye structures say, no, but we will not finance your interests, and we will finance the needs of our people, then all this spine, which is so big today in this national assembly, is breaking. And our people are left without the necessary care and in terms of social protection and in terms of health care, often without better education and so on. It benefits, for example, what a military industrial complex of our friendly countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u33	Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u34	Dear colleague, of course it is nice to tell people how you would share them; if there is no money in the budget, you too could not share anything. Very similar, such very euphoric, emotional performances were performed by your Greek colleague, a leftist colleague, when he came to power, but of course he had to turn the record thoroughly. The same would have happened to you or Levica in our country. We don't take anything from health care – that's not true! By this law you guarantee them that if you are on this train, you will ensure that the suppliers receive the money. You take him to a pensioner, that's a fact. These 77 million could be distributed to pensioners. It is very easy to adopt a law and write down that every pensioner gets 130 euros this year. Pika. Very simple, it is only necessary to get 46 votes. If I hear your colleagues and your client are against it, I'm surprised. You can look at the numbers because I keep saying this over and over again, but of course it's hard for a lot of people to hear it; our, my government, if you like, has provided 300 million euros more in the state pension budget than it is today. 300 million euros. If that were not the case, pensions would be 10 percent lower. On average, €700 would be given to any pensioner in less than one year. That's the reality. Since we did not allow it, we provided the money and assured the pensioners that they had not been reduced. Today, with economic growth, pensioners have the right to have a fraction of it back. 130 euros is at the table right now and 130 euros will be taken from each Slovenian pensioner by those who support this law. That's a fact. Let's be real, let's operate on numbers, not throw floscules here in the hall, but between people just as they should, but you can't. Now it's on the table to keep that money retired. The next step is to adopt a law that distributes this money to pensioners. It's very simple. I believe, at least I thought my colleagues from the Left supported me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u35	Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u36	Presidents, I will ask first, and then you ask your colleagues, Members, Members of Parliament, in this National Assembly. Am I Greek? Do I look Greek to anyone? Raise your hands if anyone thinks I'm Greek. Raise your hand, even if you think my name is Cyprus. I can't see a hand!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u37	Let's get back to work. Madam Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, you wanted the floor. Mag. Sasha Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not go into the content of the intervention law, but only into the procedure of providing funds for this law, which is the subject of today's bill. If I say it again. When the Government adopted an intervention law in September, amounting to 136.24 million additional expenditure on the cash flow for the state budget of the current year, the Minister of Finance, of course, did what he had to do; she suggested to the Government that it adopt a temporary suspension of budget implementation to determine whether the budget was balanced or not. Because 136 million, despite 9 billion and a half spending side of the budget, is a high amount. The Government has 30 days to determine whether the budget is balanced or not; it is said whether a balance is needed or not. By temporarily suspending the implementation of the budget, the Ministry or the budgetary users shall no longer assume non-essential obligations, the real budget shall run normally, all legal obligations shall be paid normally, or shall be prevented or prevented from assuming these non-essential obligations. Thus, as we have been calculating at this time, we have found that the budget for this year is not imbalanced, which means, in other words, that we can execute it within the framework set by this State Assembly. It is said that we will respect both the ceiling on expenditure and the maximum deficit. Therefore, there is simply no need or, if you want, there is no legal basis for us to go into the balance sheet of the existing budget, but we will be in a completely transparent manner without modifying the financial plans of all budgetary users, because for this, I say, there is simply no need to provide these resources within the framework; while we adopt the proposed law today giving the Ministry of Finance the possibility or duty to carry out this reallocation. As already mentioned in the introduction, as already mentioned in the debate, the Government has the possibility, with the existing Budget Implementation Act, to amend it both on policies and on programmes, as well as on sub-programmes, with certain limits within which it can modify the budget, as adopted by the National Assembly. In this case, because this is a high amount, the current possibilities of redistribution would be exceeded by the Government, so today the proposal is on the table to allow a single transfer, which seems to the Government better than a general mandate that would allow the Government to redistribute spending rights more. During the fiscal consolidation period, normally unused spending rights on individual purposes would be used to reduce the deficit. In this particular case, however, the losses of public health establishments after one year have already been identified, i.e. after the accounting flow, so that this transaction will not affect the achievement of the public financial objectives set this year. I would like to stress once again that we are not taking anything away from the pensioners, that all agreed rights are paid. As already mentioned today, the pension allowance has ranged from €4 billion 977 billion to €5 billion in the last year, and this year the ceiling is set at €5 billion 166 million, so that more pensions and other pension rights will be paid this year than in previous years. With regard to these 77 million or 130, as far as it is now due, perhaps this 77 — this is not dedicated money. The Government, when preparing the draft budget, will of course assess how much resources will be needed for each purpose. This money is not meant to be spent for this purpose. As we have already heard today and as we can see, this year there are simply so many employees that contributions to the pension fund are high enough to make this transfer from the state budget, which balances the pension fund, so much lower. Retired people don't take anything. In addition to the pensioners, the burden of the crisis was borne by both public servants and the lower transfers to individuals and households, the average for municipalities decreased and the pensioners will be eliminated by the first group, the first group, which in 2018, that is to say, the following year, in full austerity measures. Pensions were harmonised in accordance with system law in the years up to and including 2009, and then in the years 2010 to 2015 these savings measures were the ones we are talking about, while pensions are both in 2016 and 2017 – and also in 2018 they will be coordinated more than regular harmonisation under the system law. Thus, at least in part, the pensioners are returned to what was lost during the crisis. To conclude, I would point out that the Government is committed to health more than it has ever been, even from the state budget more than it has been so far. [[…]] Indeed, the state budget has started to take over part of the non-health services paid by the health treasury this year, so that these funds collected by the health treasury – and this is also growing significantly in recent years, if it was moving earlier at the level of 2 billion 300, 2 billion, 400, it has this year's upper meeting of 2 billion 685 and for the following year over 2 billion, 800; it is said to be more money for health care. If I finish. The Government must ensure that the necessary means are provided for the enforcement of the intervention law, on the basis of or in case of adoption, if the proposed law is approved today, this will be done in a transparent manner, within existing fiscal constraints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u39	I'll invite you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, it's very simple. There will be no €136 million for hospitals. Hospitals will retreat. Pika. But whoever thinks seriously with social protection and with the welfare of our citizens, headed by the pensioners we are now talking about, will support the amendment we have set up in Levica, which takes them from items that are actually meaningful – from the restoration of protocol facilities in Brdo and from the acquisition of patriots – and gives them to raise financial social assistance and a protective allowance. This is a socially fair measure that will not harm the health system and will take care of and start with the most socially vulnerable, the most exposed. Among these are 15,000 recipients of a protective supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u41	Mag. Alenka Bratushek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u42	What my colleague just said is the budget amendment by next year, if I know correctly, and today we are talking about 2017. So, we can solve one problem this year, but I've actually been stabbed by something else. The secretary of state says it's not purposeful money. I mean, then what do we take the budget in the National Assembly? Under this billion, 300 writes about, not roughly, this: Sub-programme 210101 – Payment of rights in policy 21 – Pension protection. What do you mean, it's not purposeful money? The National Assembly has spent so much money on pensions. As a result of the good economic situation, it is not necessary to pay regular, regularly coordinated pensions, but it remains. And because it remains, we can take a step together and give our pensioners extras this year, I speak on average, 130 euros. Money, a respected secretary of state, but it's quite purposeful. If you don't think so, tell me. The National Assembly has accepted this, and what the National Assembly accepts is also a law and an obligation for you, and otherwise it cannot be. And once again; this 77 million can, of course, also have to be written into the law, we will give the pensioners an average of 130 euros per pensioner this year. Even if the colleague in front of me thinks it's small, I think it's a lot of money for a lot of pensioners. For hospitals, the government will have to find somewhere else. That's what she did, I'll say, so, in the easiest possible way, on three big items, I picked up the money. In my life, I've drawn up and executed some 20, 30 budgets, and in the way we do or work today, no government has done this, that 140 million just so picks up somewhere else, that it doesn't rule somewhere else, but simply the Ministry of Finance. But okay, this is the transparency of this government, this is the programme budget, the budget that was full of mouths. The amendment you have before you would only ensure that the money that has been deliberately provided to pensioners remains with these pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u43	Miha Kordish, you wanted a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you. Look, Alenka, you'll find this 77 million euro on some other item, and you'll get support from the entire left-wing task force. You get signatures for an extraordinary session. I mean, very quickly, we can deal with something like that if you find money on an item that won't hit social and vital systems. [[…]] But if we take these 77 million euros out of hospital rehabilitation, we'll have to shut the hospitals down tomorrow. Well, that's the basic problem. Otherwise this year, I'm afraid it's impossible to act. What we can do, however, is make sure that the budget rises in the coming years. Among other things, we propose this in Levica, and by taking the items of restoration of protocol facilities on Brdo and from the stateless acquisition of new patriots, we give to raise monetary social assistance and to raise the protective allowance. Of course, we can always ensure greater social justice and thus increase the revenue to the budget by fairly taxing the rich, but not by reducing their taxes on capital fairly, not by reducing taxes on them continuously, and by financing investment projects, health care, education and social transfers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u45	Before I give the floor to Mr Škodnik, the Secretary of State asked for the floor. Mag. Fucker, here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u46	I just want to explain that I wouldn't be misunderstood. The intended revenue and expenditure of the budget shall be the term used in the preparation of the budget. I wanted to say that 77 million euros, which will remain unspent for the purpose of social security transfers, is not about earmarked money in the context of the definition of the Public Finance Act and the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget. Therefore, money that can be redistributed if it remains unused may be redistributed in contrast to the real purpose. That's all I wanted to say. Otherwise, 136 million, which will be spent on intervention law in health care, is the case; it is substantively dedicated, because it can only be intended for this purpose, but it is not precisely intended again by definition if you run what is, by definition, the Public Finance Act and the Enforcement Act Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u47	Replica mags. Cousin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u48	I very much agree with that, because no one has spoken, except you, about the fact that these are the means of purpose. But there are funds for pensioners. We agree with this; and not the transfer to social funds, as you say, but the concrete payment of rights in policy 21, this is Pension Protection. That's a fact. The National Assembly has provided this, and you will simply transfer this by means of today’s law to others instead of giving it to the pensioners. And yes, I'm willing to find 77 million on other items. A little more effort is needed to do this, you need to have a budget before the end of the year, an assessment and you can believe that you can do much. [[..]] But the easiest thing, of course, is to cut the highest item, hit the pensioners, although I don't know why it's so easy. But once again, if we accept this amendment, the government will have to find this money elsewhere and it will have to find it because the hospital rehabilitation law has been passed, Comrade Kordish. The law obliges the government to find this money. They – and if I understand correctly, you also advocate this – found money in the pensioners. We could have found him or found him somewhere else!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u49	Mr. Ivan Škodnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, other representatives of the Government and, of course, colleagues and fellow Members! I'm in this room all the time today, listening to the debates that are so, to the right, and I'm very surprised that it's all of a sudden so much interest. Here I have to confirm to my colleague or give it to my colleague Kordiš when he said what an interest it is for the pensioners or probably also for the client Desus, but I support, in fact, or I have nothing against any party. [[…]] Evidently, though, some goals have prevailed today in order for some individuals to be gathered together by a certain party. But once again, I'm going to say very briefly first. These funds are intended for the rehabilitation of hospitals. It's very clear. There's no way they'd take that away from the pensioners. Of course, we could get pensioners and a lot of them. You also forget that in education as well as various constructions in secondary and primary schools as well as in kindergartens are either behind or behind. There was no money. Now these things need to be remedied in hospitals, and special commissions or administrations will also be formed to monitor hospital rehabilitation, especially where the expenditure will be higher to income. It's not like that. Money has been thrown into my head, but it will be monitored and detected. Other things, legislation that has been adopted in recent years or the most in health care in the last year, will only have the effects of this legislation in the coming years. It can't be that fast. I'm not going to say now that this is a necessary recovery to get back, but how many governments have there been. There must have been more resources in past governments than now colleague Alenka Bratušek said that two thirds of the losses were generated by this government. This, I mean – I don't have it with me – but I can think of that as not true. But there must also be some funds or losses that have arisen in this government. [[…]] If these funds were not indicated in the past, patients had no consequences, since the hospital was more likely to find themselves and the money was redeployed from other cases that patients were not injured. [[…]] Now they've come into this situation when they urgently need this money. But if this money is in hospitals in this situation, there will be no time, and there will be disadvantaged patients, and probably more sick pensioners among them, and so on. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u51	Mag. Alenka Bratusek, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u52	Dude, it's true. Since 9:00, I've been talking about this law, and maybe it would be good if you read what it says in this law. Because that's exactly where the money's gonna come from. It reads: "Reparation of injustices and damages in justice policy, Payment of rights in policy 21 – Pension protection and Payment of contribution to the EU budget." This is clearly stated in the law. It is thus possible to recommend that when we discuss and vote on something, we know what we are talking about and, more importantly, what we are voting on. The fact is, you will take 77 million of the money secured for the pensioners. This is a fact, it comes from the proposal. My appeal goes only to all of us to bind the government to find this money elsewhere. That's all. That's all! The hospital rehabilitation law has been passed. 136.6 – I think it is – a million governments must find out because you have adopted the law, but there is no need for it right here. That's all I want to tell you today. No one should be deprived of it. Marriages are likely to have to be respected. However, they must be read before they are accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u53	This concludes the debate, if I understand correctly. I see there's no interest anymore. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the principal place of the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nejc Bezovar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is the basis for the participation of the public authorities and bodies of the Municipality of Ljubljana in the performance of the tasks important for the development of the capital city and in the fulfilment of the conditions for the functioning of the state authorities and organisations and representations. The special position of the capital is not a Slovenian specialty. The other way around. Such legislation is known in almost all European countries. The modified amendments and additions to Article 6a of the Capital Law provide for a method of determining the share of the income that will belong to the Municipality of Ljubljana for each financial year. The percentage of income was based on the calculation of the capital’s income by formula, comparing the average costs of the Ljubljana Municipality and the average costs of the municipalities. The provisions of the current law are nominally controversial and give rise to different possible interpretations as the law sets one value and the regulation calculates a different value every four years. The Government therefore considers that the amendment provision is necessary, irrespective of the amount to be fixed by the law or regulation. The proposal for a law so clearly provides that, irrespective of the calculation based on the methodology laid down in the Regulation, the proportion of income belonging to the municipality for each financial year shall not be lower and not higher than the range laid down in the law. Since the calculation method will be regulated by the new Regulation, the Regulation on the methodology for calculating the ratio between the estimated costs of financing the tasks and programmes of the capital and income will be completely repealed. Such arrangements will clearly and unequivocally provide a source of revenue for the Municipality of Ljubljana to finance tasks under the Capital City Act and will allow its authorities to plan and make decisions on financing – I am talking about the so-called predictability or predictability of the share of income – and, of course, this predictability will also be the obligation of the State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u55	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I shall give the Chairman of the Committee mag. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you for your words, Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 40th meeting, on 4 November 2016. Ten. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The National Assembly shall, at the request of the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank on the proposal for a law at the 32nd meeting of 14th session. Seven. 2017 held a general discussion and concluded that it was suitable for further consideration. During the business term, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD in Articles 1, 2, and 4. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, explained in a supplementary explanation that the second draft amendments to the basic text of the law, which was adopted in 2005, were before the Members and Members. The capital is already one of the most important symbols of statehood and the administrative centre of the country. That the legal position of the capital is governed by the law, he believes that there is no objection, since this is a established practice in most comparable countries. The capital position, however, brings with it the additional cost and investment burden of the city itself. The proposed amendments to Article 6a of the Law provide for a clear method of determining the proportions of the income that will belong to the Municipality of Ljubljana for each financial year. The draft law now unequivocally states that, irrespective of the calculation based on the methodology laid down by the Government Regulation, the share of the income belonging to the capital of each financial year shall not be less than 0,6 and not more than 0,8 per cent of the income. This arrangement will clearly and unequivocally provide a source of income for the Municipality of Ljubljana to finance tasks under the Main City Act. In its presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the proposed legislation in one part was not fully clear and understandable and, in the other part, their comments on the proposed solutions to the proposal focused on the insufficient protection of the principle of legal certainty, which, inter alia, requires that legal bases for the conduct and conduct of legal entities should be defined in advance or at least definitive. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development was presented by the State Council, which said the Commission supports the proposal of the law. In a lively debate developed between the members and members of the committee, the debate was mainly about the dilemma why the City Municipality of Ljubljana, which is also the capital city, provides for a balanced status among the municipalities. It has been heard from coalition members that Ljubljana, as the capital, is carrying out a series of tasks that no one else can perform as the administrative and cultural centre of Slovenia. The bill discusses the financing of the tasks of the capital of general importance rather than the general arrangements for the financing of municipalities. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 4 of the SMC, Desus and SD. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u57	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 32nd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law supplementing the law on favouring Members of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament, a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nejc Bezovar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you again for the word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament should be supplemented by a consistent implementation of Article 1 of Directive 2013/1 of the European Union amending Directive 93/109 of the European Community as regards certain detailed arrangements for the exercise of passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the European Union residing in a Member State but not their nationals. With regard to the transposition of the directive, the European Commission is conducting an informal procedure because it considers that our legislation does not set a deadline, namely 5 working days in which the competent authority must send information on the existence of the electoral right of the Slovenian candidate who is running for elections to the European Parliament in another Member State. The European Commission also considers that the voter referred to in Article 8 of the Electoral Law does not include a candidate, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who, in another EU Member State in which he resides, runs for elections to the European Parliament. Article 8 of the Law on the Registration of Election Rights provides that the Ministry of the Interior shall be the point of contact for the exchange of information and verification of information on the electorate and his electoral rights with other Member States of the European Union and shall send or verify data as soon as possible and no later than five working days following the adoption of the request. Article 18 of the Act needs to be amended by explicitly setting out the competent authority to verify the existence of the electoral right of a candidate, who is a Slovenian citizen and resides in another EU Member State and is running for the European Parliament, and setting a deadline for the submission of data on the existence of electoral rights to the competent authority of another EU Member State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u59	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u60	At its 40th meeting, on 4 October 2017, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur on 30 June 2017. Members and members of the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services of 19 September and of the Commission of the State Regulation of 3 October 2017 as material for the meeting. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. Representative of the proposer, State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration mag. In a supplementary explanation, Tanja Bogataj briefly explained why the text of the law should be supplemented. In its presentation of the written opinion of this service, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that there were no comments in the opinion on the text of the draft law, except in a complementary explanation of the above-mentioned suggestion. The latter was intended solely and merely to ensure a more appropriate dictatorship in this part of the bill. The opinion of the Commission of the Council of State on State regulation was presented by Councillor Jernej Verbič, who first stressed that the Commission supported the proposal. The Commission agrees with the proposed amendment to the law whereby the Ministry of the Interior, in the context of the conduct of elections to the European Parliament, will be a contact point for the exchange of information and verification of data on the electoral rights of a Slovenian citizen who would run for office in another European Union country. In the debate, the representative of the Levica Group said that in their parliamentary group, solutions to the draft law, which by content were more than just technical in nature, would be supported. According to his assessment, he is concerned about the underrepresentation of eight European Members from the Republic of Slovenia whose presence in the National Assembly is lacking. He also wondered whether Slovenia would have several members in the European Parliament's common quota after the final withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The representative of the proposer could not answer this question because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was supposed to be responsible for such a question, but the Government could explain the fact later. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law supplementing the Law on the Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia be adopted by the European Parliament in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u61	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u62	Dear Vice-President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting also on behalf of the Desus Group! The position of our Group on this issue is as follows. The proposal under consideration complements the existing text of the law with a view to further implementing Article 1 of Directive 2013/1/EU amending Directive 93/109/EC as regards certain detailed arrangements for the exercise of passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the European Union who reside in a Member State but are not its citizens. As has already been said, the European Commission is conducting an informal procedure with regard to the transposition of that directive against Slovenia and the elimination of the inconsistencies identified will have to be reported by the end of this year. This is a key reason why we today accept these supplements of the law. There are no open dilemmas here, the proposal has received unanimous support already on the parent’s working body. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposed amendment of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, so that the Ministry of the Interior, in the context of the holding of elections to the European Parliament, will be a contact point for the exchange of information and verification of data on the electoral rights of a Slovenian citizen who would run for office in another European Union country and we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u63	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Our position will be as brief as the debate was on the parent's working body. The new Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament is, in other words, a technical law. It was prepared on the basis of warnings from the European Commission and the proceedings initiated by the European Union against Slovenia concerning the transposition of a directive relating to the exercise of passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the European Union residing in a Member State, but they are not citizens of the European Union. In short, it is a matter of supplementing Article 18 of the Act, which states that the Ministry of the Interior is the point of contact, for the exchange of information and verification of data on the electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who resides in another Member State and run for office in elections to the European Parliament. It also sets out the deadline of five working days for the transmission of the data required by the other Member States of the European Union for the purposes of elections to the European Parliament. With the proposed law on amendments to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, we will also support the proposal for a new law by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u65	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u66	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The European Commission's procedure against Slovenia is again ongoing, and this is due to our inconsistencies in the implementation of the directive concerning certain detailed arrangements for the exercise of passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the European Union residing in a Member State, but they are not citizens of the European Union. For the current law does not contain an explicit provision on which body is responsible for the exchange of information with the competent authority in another European Union country. Nor does the second law set a time limit within which the question of the forthcoming body of another Member State of the European Union must be answered. More simply, if a Slovenian citizen living in another Member State of the European Union is to run for the European Parliament, the Ministry of the Interior must verify the existence of his passive electoral right. It shall do so no later than five working days after receipt of the request. Since the Ministry of the Interior also keeps a register of electoral rights, it is logical that it should also lead the same procedures for Slovenian citizens who wish to run for the European Parliament in another Member State of the European Union. In New Slovenia, we stress that the transposition of this European directive could be fully implemented in 2014, but we have overlooked part of its content. We hope to do our homework today as it is right. In Novi Slovenije, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u67	Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u68	Dear President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. The essence of the amendment of the law is to remedy the shortcomings that occurred in the adoption of the law in 2014, when we inconsistently transposed the European Directive 2013/1/EU. By addressing the shortcomings, we will allow the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to exercise their passive electoral right and to run for elections to the European Parliament in countries where they are not citizens. The aim of the amendments to the law is to establish procedures for the exchange of information on the existence of a passive electoral right of Slovenian citizens who, in the EU Member State in which he resides, is to run for elections to the European Parliament. By supplementing Article 18 of this Act, the Ministry of the Interior shall be the competent authority to verify the existence of a passive electoral right and shall also set a deadline of 5 working days for the Ministry of the Interior to transmit the data to the competent authority in another EU Member State. Finally, let me say that we firmly hope that in the future we will be more precise in the transposition of the European directives and that we will not have to deal with the same subject more than once. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u69	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u70	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As a member of the European Union, Slovenia has the right and duty to participate in the work of all European Union bodies, but participation in the work of the European Parliament is different from participation in other bodies, since the European Parliament is the only EU body formed by direct elections. The European Parliament is therefore elected by voters in the Member States of the European Union. Slovenia belongs under the Treaty of Lisbon to 8 members of the European Parliament. The election of Members from Slovenia to the European Parliament is the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, Members from Slovenia to the EU or in the European Parliament directly on the basis of general and equal electoral rights by secret ballot for a period of five years. The Law on Elections to the European Parliament was last amended in 2014, just before the elections due to the obligation to transpose Directive 2013/1. This amendment is essentially a technical correction to the 2014 amendment, as the European Commission has concluded in relation to the transposition of that Directive that its Article 1 has not been fully transposed, since it does not contain a provision on the time limit within which the Republic of Slovenia should provide information on Slovenian candidates to their Member State of residence. Complementing the law explicitly governs which competent authority checks the existence of a passive electoral right when a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU Member State of residence is nominated to the European Parliament. The update also sets a deadline within which the Slovenian competent authority must send the required information to the competent authority of another EU Member State. In the SMC Group, of course, we will be supporting the amendment of the law, which essentially fully implements the 2013 Directive. However, when this position is presented, they would point out that more than three years have passed since the last European Parliament elections and that less than two of us are separated from the next. In recent years, we have been facing a decline in the support and confidence of citizens in the EU institutions, and it is therefore appropriate to support any activity that goes towards confidence-building. Since the last amendment of electoral legislation to the European Parliament, there have been many changes in the EU as a whole, as well as in the European Parliament. Elections to the European Parliament must receive a European note and must not sound like a debate on national issues. Elections to the European Parliament remain too national, it is a general lack of awareness of how much policies adopted at European level affect our lives. That is why we want electoral reform to increase the interest of citizens in participating in this important institution in the system of European decision-making. Unfortunately, elections to the European Parliament have been sealed by second-class elections in relation to national elections, although the powers of the European Parliament have increased over the years and it has gained an increasingly important role in government supranational structures. Paradoxically, while Parliament's power has steadily increased, electoral participation has declined. It is worth noting that Parliament is deciding on important matters for citizens and citizens of the European Union, so we hope and expect to receive amendments to the 1976 European Parliament election act in due time before the next elections. The changes that will move forward over time will increase the democratic and transnational dimensions of European elections and the legitimacy of the decision-making process and bring Parliament closer to its constituents, that is to say all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u71	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues, everyone, have a nice greeting! As it is said, we have before us a proposal for a new Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, by which the Directive, which regulates the exercise of passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament, is more consistently transposed into the Slovenian legal order, as has been said, for citizens of the European Union residing in a Member State, but are not citizens of the European Union. This is a law that could be said to be more important than the content of technical implementation and the technical nature of this law, which provides that the Ministry of the Interior, in the context of the conduct of elections to the European Parliament, will be a contact point for the exchange of information and also for the verification of data on the electoral rights of a Slovenian citizen who would run in another European Union country. The deadline for implementing the Directive was 28 January 2014, and today we are 17 October 2017. In short, despite the fact that a short-term amendment was adopted in 2013 just before the implementation expired, this implementation was carried out inconsistently. And today we are correcting what some did not know how to do in 2014 when they were dealing with everything but with some technical regulation from the European Union. Apparently there were other priorities. Therefore, unfortunately, today the European Commission is conducting an informal procedure against Slovenia in connection with the transposition of this Directive already mentioned above, and Slovenia will have to report on the elimination of the inconsistencies identified by the end of the year. In short, since the coalition 2014 – and we know who were in the coalition at the time – did not know how to do their work, two thirds of that coalition will repeat its homework today, we hope that it will be far more successful. Unfortunately, we will spend too much time and too much will and too much knowledge to determine some technical matter. We will support the law in the SDS Group. The proposal would, however, be expected to come into the legislative process sooner than again before the deadline for reporting is reached. In short, he's still sticking to this government operating mode Hiti slowly. And that's why we're late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u73	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u74	We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a second-level proposal for a law to regulate the position of students within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a Member of the Parliament, Dr Milan Brglez, who gives him the floor to further explain the bill. Dr. Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that before you there is a law that is the result of the participation of all stakeholders in the legislative process, both the targeted students, the executive branch and the legislator. Without cooperation, we would not have actually come to this law. I have put the proposal of this law essentially on the initiative of the students to step closer to them, through the procedure, through the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, through the opinions of the committee itself, we have all been learning democratic procedures, I must admit. I am pleased and I think that this experience is useful, but in particular I think it is useful in terms of empowering students themselves, that they are also able to make legislation in an appropriate way, although they can certainly make certain comments in this regard. But I think, given what they've put in, they deserve their marriage. I think the country is in a very different position today than it was when savings were needed. It is still not an absolute good situation, but at least it is so good that, when we are prudent and avoid headless conduct, we are allowed to have the fruits of hard work, denial and improvement of the public financial image of citizens, and among them students are certainly part of that population that, I think, deserves because they are built on the future of our society. Certainly, the proposed law does not represent a comprehensive response to all problems. It is about those answers that students themselves were able to learn at the time they were available, and they would probably have added another matter by now. But I think he's handling the most pressing and acute problems. I mean, I am sure that solutions will facilitate and improve the social situation of students and make them fairer. What are the five main sets of solutions that the proposal brings, which we have constructively agreed on by all stakeholders, i.e. representatives of students and executives? First, offering health insurance for all students by the end of the academic year in which they are 27 years old. Secondly, the compromise extension of the offer of subsidised student diet by 21:00, thirdly, the harmonisation of the conditions of scholarship with European Union law and case law and the fair regulation of the allowance for residence. Fourthly, arrangements for the exercise of special rights for students with special needs and special status. And fifthly, the possibility of maintaining student status by the end of the academic year after the end of the second Bologna level. I hope that these solutions will further contribute to tertiary education and thus make our development even more attractive to the drivers of this development, which young people certainly are. I must express my satisfaction at the way in which all of you have participated in this process, including in the home work body itself, where the law has been confirmed without a vote against. Everyone is thanked, in particular the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which was somehow also the carrier of inter-departmental coordination. However, I call, of course, on all colleagues and colleagues to support this law and thus take one step towards improving the situation of students. It's symbolic, but it's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u76	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Saša Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u77	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues, colleagues! At its 35th meeting on 28 September this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the proposal for a law on the regulation of student positions submitted to the National Assembly by Member Milan Brglez. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. The amendments were not tabled within the time limit, but proposals for amendments to the Committee were proposed by Mr Milan Brglez and Mr Vebra. In the introduction, the bill's proposer, Dr. Milan Brglez, said that the law would deal with the most pressing problems students face every day. The aim of the proposed amendments is to facilitate the social situation of students and to make them more fair and to make studies at tertiary level attractive again, which is essential in terms of the development of Slovenia. He explained that the proposals of the articles regulate an area which is already systematically regulated and which does not interfere with the system rules of each area. The bill is in line with the students and ministries to which the content is ours and also with the coalition. Ms Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, presented in the introduction the opinion of the Government and said that the law indirectly affects the field of income, health insurance, subsidised student diet, scholarship and higher education, or six applicable laws regulating the matter. It explained that the Government had pointed out that such regulation was not in conformity, since it could therefore be disputed in terms of clarity, transparency, certainty and consistency of legislation. In view of this, the Government also made certain comments and did not object to the proposal of the law in the light of these considerations. The debate was mainly about the unusual amendment of several laws at the same time as a novelty, on changes in the level of the scholarship during the academic year and on the retention of the status until the end of the study year. Some felt that it would have been better if the amendment of the committee had not deleted the use of the vouchers during the summer month and the return of the student allowance to the level it had been before November 2012. Since the exercises and other study obligations are often continuing late in the evening, the amendment of the Committee to Article 4 of the law, which will allow the exercise of the right to a subsidised meal one hour longer, was proposed and adopted, irrespective of the fact that the members of the Committee have been warned that there is already a legal provision where the student is entitled to a break so that he can eat his meal at a normal time. On the basis of the debate and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u78	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A representative of the Government, Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž Boh, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before you, the proposal for a law to regulate the situation of students, which, as a very large or difficult matter, has in fact been sent by the Government to various departments immediately after receiving it, since it intervenes in various areas, as has already been mentioned, from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, and on the basis of this coordination the Government has in fact drawn up a comprehensive list of comments or a comprehensive list of proposals on how matter itself needs to be amended. We then also note, on the basis of the follow-up procedures that have been carried out in this context, as Dr Brglez has already said, that in fact all the open questions between the proposer and, in fact, the ministries have been somehow coordinated and we can conclude at this point that the comments that the Government has already made are already included and also accepted in the proposed amendments to the proposing or competent committee. And given that the law is important for improving the situation of students, given that they have been in relatively broad and long-term and I have to say very constructive dialogue, including comments taken into account or have been harmonised, I can therefore say that the Government does not oppose the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Following is the position of the Group of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone once again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! We will support the bill on regulating the situation of students in the parliamentary group, but of course we are concerned that, at the moment we adopt this law, circumstances have arisen that will surely dictate a similar law that will regulate the situation of students, because regardless of their status as students, they will not, in fact, receive all the supplements that they could otherwise, so that they will certainly continue to do so. However, it is important to approach the removal of all those restrictions introduced during the economic and financial crisis. This law does interfere with a number of other laws, but it could be said that students have somehow returned to the country because a country with one law reached out to several others when it was reducing their rights or their status. That is why, of course, we have also adopted these warnings with greater understanding, both by law and law, and by other means, a procedure that is somehow not the most transparent for us to have transparent legislation. However, the content is important. With this content, it is really important to improve the situation both in the field of scholarships, here we can specifically highlight the fact that a grantor who, during a school year or study year, meets the conditions for obtaining an allowance for stay, is entitled to this supplement for a current school year or year of study as from the first day of the next month of the amendment. This has certainly been one of those points which has, in fact, greatly affected the status of students and have also been, to a large extent, justifiably dissatisfied. This law is going to end this. It is also important to regulate such health care in this law and especially the situation of those students, namely students with special needs, who will still have more opportunities to adapt their capabilities to implementation, programmes and professional assistance. This also draws closer to the most vulnerable groups of students, so it is certainly one of the most important if not even the most important ones to gain this law. In the process of adopting the law, we were also able to adopt it on the amendment committee, and I also designed it in cooperation with the students. This will extend the possibility of using a subsidised student meal by 21:00, which means that at this point it has also sought to follow the most demanding study programmes and commitments that students have, and also then allow them to take advantage of this option, which they still have in subsidising the individual student's meal. In short, we will support the law and I can say that we are extremely sensitive to the situation that has taken place during this interim period, and we also expect a very quick solution to the situation of students in health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u82	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The basic law on the regulation of the situation of students, which our colleague Dr. Milan Brglez is investing in the parliamentary procedure, is divided into seven key areas, which are supposed to regulate the situation of students in one law. In writing the bill, the proposer used a specific legislative technique, since the proposal interferes with five different laws, namely income, health insurance, subsidised nutrition, scholarships and higher education. It is a derogation from the normal adoption of laws where amendments or additions are made in the context of a separate novel. The Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out that this technique is permissible only exceptionally, restrictively and always in some materially limited extent, with naturally stated reasons. The Committee's amendments have substantially changed the initial proposal of the law. In the New Slovenia Group, we strongly support the proposal to return the amount of special relief, the so-called student relief, to which students and students are entitled in the course of their student work, to the level before the amendment of the law in 2012. This means raising student relief from the current EUR 2 000 477.03 in general, which currently amounts to EUR 3 000 302.70. However, this article in the proposal for an amendment to the committee was deleted. The bill allows students and students to benefit from compulsory health insurance for the duration of education if they are enrolled in a secondary or tertiary education programme in a timely manner. Following the amendment adopted by the Committee, the student shall have the opportunity to benefit from compulsory health insurance until the end of the academic year in which he is 26 years old. In the New Slovenia Group, we think that this is a reasonable limit, because these are adults who are able to pay for health insurance. The coordination of student food subsidies with the cost of living index in the New Slovenia Group is supported because the subsidy price has been at the same level for five years, amounting to €2.63. This article was also lined up with the amendment of the committee. We certainly agree that regular and healthy nutrition is the key to good study success and therefore we support the extension of the possibility of using vouchers by 21:00. My fellow Member, Iva Dimic, has already sent a written question to the competent minister in March this year regarding the receipt of a scholarship allowance if the student meets the conditions for his acquisition during the study year, for example for the purpose of moving. The current regime is unfair as it obliges a student to notify an annual change affecting the receipt of an allowance which is not eligible on the basis of the amendment, but cannot begin to receive a residence allowance during the year if the grantor was not entitled to it at the time of the conclusion of the scholarship. This is regulated by this proposal of the law. The bill extends the duration of student status after graduation at the second Bologna level until the end of the academic year. The student does not lose his post after defending his master's degree, but only with the end of his study year. The same arrangement is already in force at the first stage of the study. We support this proposal in New Slovenia. It is true that such an extension of student status does not encourage a faster search for regular employment, but this proposal rewards the good students who finish their studies earlier and discourages delaying by procrastination by the end of the academic year in September. Of course, we will not oppose the proposal in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. In Levica we support the substantive solutions of the so-called Brglez Act to regulate the situation of students from the beginning. However, we are critical or still critical of the way this law was proposed. For example, the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that the principle of legal certainty has been violated. Above all, it is problematic that legal reservations made by the Legislative and Legal Service are more or less important depending on which parliamentary group or, in this case, an individual has tabled a proposal. In the following case, the proposal was tabled by someone who puts himself in the position of first among the same, guardian of the procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, which is why disregarding the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is even more worrying than usual. Otherwise, we have always supported the proposal at the substantive level, as I have already said. As originally submitted, he brought a series of good changes in income, student health insurance, student nutrition, scholarships and students with special needs, improving the social situation of students. With the proposed and adopted amendments of the committee prepared by the proposer, we found ourselves in a situation when the good man Santa brought gifts and then came one day later and took these gifts back. The proposer put five solutions on the table and then removed three of these solutions from the law. While on the committee we have solved some of the changes in student diet, where there has been a compromise that students can use these vouchers by nine p.m. Well, they still came up with solutions that raised the amount of student voucher subsidies and allowed them to be used by 10 p.m., as well as during the summer. Similarly, the Government's promise of system regulation has eliminated the return of special tax relief for students to the level before 2012. Due to government opposition and opposition from the Institute of Health Insurance, however, the short-term end brought a solution to the longer-term health insurance for students. And I can honestly tell you that in Levica we are disappointed at the currently severely distorted version of the original law, which, however, still contributes to the improved position of students mainly in the field of scholarship and in the field of the regulation of the special rights of students with special needs and special status. That is why this shrunk version also enjoys the support of the Left Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u87	Nice greetings again, dear colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we will support the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students. We will also support it because the first version of this law, with its signatures, supported almost 17,000 students and a hand to the heart, has also been prepared by marriage between or with students. Our president simply signed their proposal. But I also have to be a little critical at first. The law is not systemic, and if any of us who are not part of the coalition put it in, I'm sure you wouldn't be supported. It's not systemic, it's an intervention in five laws, and the law enforcement has had a lot of criticism at the expense of that. However, the students will have student status by the end of the academic year even in the case of a second degree of study, they will be insured by the end of the study year in which they will be 26 years old, and during the year they will also be able to apply an allowance for stay. In addition, foreign citizens will be allowed to apply for a state grant. However, the problem of students with special needs and special status will have to be regulated by the competent ministry by a regulation or a specific act. And finally, believe it or not, I think we've been on the board for three hours talking about this, and students will be able to benefit from a subsidized student diet by 9:00 instead of 8:00. According to my assessment, this watch could simply be stopped, there would be no additional financial consequences, but it will obviously be the next step. Indeed, there were several solutions in the basic law that the coalition had then removed from the law on the proposal of the Government, but of course it is also necessary to say here that the students also agreed to this deletion from the law. After a broad debate on the working body, we supported all the parliamentary groups, and I am confident that we will also show unity in solving these problems today. While I am pleased that we will take another step towards improving the general status of students together, I would point out that taking measures for students does not mean taking measures for all young people. We should focus primarily on these, i.e. young people in general. The youth policy we are leading is still insufficiently responding to the challenges and needs of young people. In summary, a young delegate who, at the 72nd meeting of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, represented Slovenia, said: “We are struggling with unemployment, various forms of unstable employment, the lack of properly qualified workers, leading to a late transition to adulthood and preventing young people from becoming completely autonomous.” This shows that we are not aware of this, either. We are only taking partial measures instead of pursuing the empowerment of young people in a broader and more thoughtful manner. As I have already said at the outset, in our parliamentary group we will support the proposal for a law, but we note that a different approach needs to be chosen for a truly better life for young people in Slovenia. Given the potential of young people, solutions to their problems should be addressed comprehensively, and this will be one of the major challenges of the next government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are pleased that this time, too, the student meeting to the proposed legislative changes proposed by Dr. Brglez has been united. We have already seen changes in the parliamentary procedure, which have shown not unanimity and internal disharmony between students themselves or their representative groups, which was certainly not a good passenger for the legislation that regulated their situation. It is true that the proposal for a law has been subject to some criticism, particularly with regard to the application of specific legislative techniques and the interference of the law with different areas of the field. Nevertheless, the solutions proposed should be considered mainly from a substantive point of view, as they improve the situation of students. At the meeting of the mother's working body, solutions were adopted with our support, which will certainly be of benefit to the students. Their student status will continue until the end of the academic year even after graduation in the second grade, and they will also be able to give up if they wish to join the labour market earlier as job seekers. Health insurance will be able to benefit by the end of the study year in which they completed 26 years. Foreign citizens will also be eligible for a state scholarship, which is mainly meant for representatives of Slovenian communities abroad, and may be granted an allowance to stay for a scholarship during the study year. The problem of students with special needs and special status is being addressed. Students will be able to benefit from a subsidised student diet by 9:00 p.m. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are particularly concerned about the regulation of the situation of students with special needs, since the legislation in force in this area is not sufficiently regulated. The rights are scattered and different. The adoption of this law will take the first steps towards an integrated regulation of their situation, and so will be the case. As the position was also mentioned in the presentation, something in the position of the parliamentary group would suggest that certain students have been deprived of their rights under the status of student due to the applicable higher education legislation. We are talking, of course, about the amendment to the Higher Education Act, which provided that students have the right to health care and other benefits for the longest duration of one study programme at each level plus one year. We also agree in our Group that there will be a need to clear up the various interpretations of Article 69 and to ensure that young people are not unduly deprived of their rights, but we must do so in a way that the solutions will be equal and fair to all students. For students of single master's programmes, according to our behaviour, the error in the formula of calculating the possible years of use of rights and benefits is already being eliminated. We stress this because we have in mind, and we should bear in mind that the students, of course, belong to rights, but that the studies themselves cannot be intended not only for the exercise of rights, but primarily for the acquisition of appropriate education. In this way, we will also politically shift the mentality that student status should no longer be a social correction and that we must put youth employment policy at the forefront in this regard. Otherwise, we will support the proposal of the bill in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you, President, for your word. Honorable representative of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting! I have been alone in the National Assembly for so long that at least twice at each other’s session we hear about the infamous ZUJF, both of the substantive solutions and of the procedural ones. Today, there are images before us, professionally called omnibus, that is, the approach when one law governs the area of several laws. And to quote the Legislative and Legal Service, which says "that such an approach is allowed only exceptionally, restrictively and always to a strictly limited extent, on the grounds shown, that the usual amendment to the regulation of a particular issue is not appropriate and even such a legislative technique is necessary." On this basis, the Legislative and Legal Service has proposed and considered that the proposed solutions should be dealt with more appropriately within the framework of certain legislative proposals. And we agree with that in the SDS Group. We also know and are aware that with the infamous ZUJF, which you have celebrated at home and in Europe, everyone has defended and praised, we have also reduced a certain part of their rights to the students, but with the commitment that a large majority of these commitments have been agreed with them and with the agreement that as soon as the appropriate financial situation in Slovenia changes, we will return it to the students. In order to return a certain part and add something else, the President of the National Assembly decided and introduced the draft law into the National Assembly. Which is just right for the president to be first-signed. In the SDS Group, we are saddened only by the fact that there are 89 other signatures under this signature of the President, Dr Milan Brglez. Procedurally, this would probably extend the whole process by one or two days, and all of them would show that we can give students something. However, what is further disputed in this giving to students is that we have received at the very meeting of the parent working body of the amendment, where more than half of these positive measures have been taken back. In short, as was said, Santa brought a full bag, and he lost half of the gift while he was shaking. And with that, we have problems in the SDS Group. Why? Let's just look at the student vouchers. In the SDS, I think we've already introduced a law twice so that students can use student vouchers by 10:00, but I don't know how many answers, non-systemic solutions, not that it can, it'll cost too much, and so on. Then a proposal by the coalition member at the Committee meeting and a compromise proposal of 21 hours. In short, you can do anything if you want. The fact is, in this term, this coalition doesn't want to settle too much. We could have handled it sooner and done it as the Law and Law Service said, in laws that touch on certain issues. Speaking of student vouchers, it grieves us that the proposer who proposed this change in student vouchers did not consistently overcome what the students asked for, which is an increase in student fees. In sharing the candy that this coalition has been committed to giving to Slovenian citizens and citizens in these last half years, it has once again released students as one of those, the most vulnerable groups in our country today. Then there's the other thing, a stay-at-home allowance. In this mandate, I myself have asked one question from the Member States, and in the previous mandate, I have also asked one question from the Member States about this addition to stay and scholarships. There were some students in my group who said why the hell we have to wait for a date, but if the first day of the next month could be arranged. And look at him, Santa has come and brought some fulfillment of these matters. And also that this law provides certain benefits for students with special needs and special statuses, we support in the parliamentary group. All we're worried about is the law says it's done by the Ministry of Law. But we do know what our stories and accidents are. Probably won't be perfect there, either, like this one isn't perfect. And once again to the coalition for your knowledge, you're passing a law where at a meeting of the parent's working body, we had a very substantial amendment in every article. So much for knowing the next time you talk about what kind of laws aren't systematic. We will then support this law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u93	Honourable Vice-President, Ministry Representative, colleague and colleague and, of course, Honourable Lawmaker Dr. Milan Brglez! Members of the delegation and Members of Desus cannot, in the first place, pass without being ridden with regard to the way in which this bill is tabled. Otherwise, we are aware of your constitutional right to file a law as a Member and, of course, we do not challenge you or take this right, but we hope that you are aware that by initiating a bill through coalition partners and even without the behaviour of your own party, you have risked accepting it for the purpose of a good law. The second observation, which we cannot miss, is an inadequate way of regulating the content, which in your particular case is a hindrance to the normative rules, is to intervene in 6 different areas, as you have in fact created a mini anti-ZUJF, which, when accepted, received this very obvious. The content of the law itself is acceptable to our parliamentary group. We are aware that in some ways this law is the correction of the ZUJF, at least as regards the financial resources needed in difficult economic times to stabilise public finances. Student income relief will therefore increase by around €700. And yes, under at least one of the six laws in which this law affects, this will be regulated in an appropriate regulatory manner, this is the new Income Law. The remaining solutions that have been further crystallized in the second reading of the law on the home labour body, with the contribution of the competent ministries and Members and Members of Parliament, are understood as solutions that in some ways facilitate both studies and students' lives. According to our assessment, that is to say, the assessment of Members of Parliament and Members of Desus is a stable environment or if you want the living conditions of the assumption of successful study and its conclusion. Thus, we note that this law will deal more fairly with the issue of family health insurance for students of the second grade, a meaningfully regulated duration of status with the possibility of cancellation of status for those who are eligible in the study and who want to get a job immediately and also get a better job, taking care of students with special needs and special status, and legal case law on the scholarship allowance. Although the Desus Group has repeatedly rejected previous proposals to extend the use of student food vouchers. Although I had no problem with this myself, let me remind you that the focus was on a healthy diet. Of course, Desus does not change his position at this point, but with all the other content that we welcome, because it is for the benefit of the students, our future driving force of society, we can also close our eyes at this point. I'm predicting support for the amendments tabled and the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 October 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the draft law of the Member of Parliament, Dr Milan Brglez. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Okay, thank you very much. If no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. Since the amendments proposed by the draft law are Members of the Parliament of the European Parliament to Article 7 and Article 7a to Article 8, we will discuss all three amendments together. So I am putting to the debate 7th, 8th and 8th paragraphs, and the three amendments by Mr Milan Brglez. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Thank you very much. So I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. There's no government representative. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President. It's not. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of New Slovenia. [[…]] Dr. Franz Duck, he's not here. Mr. Franc Laj [[…]] Please proceed with procedure, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u95	I suggest, Vice-President, that you have this competence, given that the preceding point was completed three hours earlier than was intended to give people time to prepare themselves, to come to the hall, so that I think you can take a five or ten minutes break, so that we can work normally on because it is the end of an important marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u96	Good. I'm taking five minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u97	We're continuing our session. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u98	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The changes in this legislation point to some of the problems we have had in the National Assembly for a long time. In particular, laws are adopted that are not operational and are difficult to implement in practice. In this case, it is a transposition of directives. The Directives have been transposed on a number of occasions and therefore we have a problem that we need to complement them all the time, and this kind of debate and waste of time would not be necessary at all. What would you point out here? This is a problem that occurs in the informal economy, namely that we have seasonal workers and that we have those who are transferred to another job within some corporations or related ones. And then there's the abuse, the unfair competition, and the loss of human rights taxes. However, the second part, which could be highlighted, is that it is for persons whose international protection status has ceased to apply. This is again about these human rights and the key health care, the security of the country against all those at risk, particularly the threats to communicable diseases. If the country is not adequately protected, there may also be major health and safety disasters. Once again, I would like to point out that such debates and hearings would not be necessary if they were properly transposed and settled at the outset. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u100	The main reason for drafting the amendments and supplementing the law is the transposition of two European Union directives into the national legal order, namely Directive 2014/36 of the EU, which regulates the new issuance of a single residence permit and work permit for the purpose of seasonal work, and Directive 2014/66 of the EU, with the transposition of which the Republic of Slovenia also follows the objectives of the European Union, allowing several national companies to make the best use of their human resources and to move them more easily within individual related companies. Directive 2014/66 lays down the conditions for the issue of a single authorisation for persons moved within connected companies established in a third country, the Republic of Slovenia or another EU Member State. The latter also led the National Assembly to consider the amendment of the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners. In fact, it is a twin of the related laws, which are regulated for that reason. In doing so, Slovenia is following the objectives of making the best possible use of human resources and removing administrative barriers that facilitate the movement of labour between Member States. Notwithstanding the latter, the Government, at the proposal of the competent department, decided that provisions other than those related to matter should also be laid down in the amendment to the Foreigners Act. If I only point out some of the essentials, the novelty of the law has as many as 64 articles. The novelty also complements the transposition of the Directive on the right of citizens of the Union, their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, allowing the issuance of a new security certificate of residence for citizens of the European Union and their family members. It would also point out, for example, the amendments related to the ratification of the Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, ratified by the Republic of Slovenia in 2015. I am speaking, of course, of the Istanbul Convention. The proposed amendments provide for the possibility for victims of domestic violence to obtain or issue a detention permit under official duty and under certain conditions also to obtain a temporary residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the new provisions introduced by the competent ministry on the initiative of the Ombudsman and some NGOs working in the field of migration. In this regard, I would also like to point out that, in the context of the consideration of the novel on the labour market, we have been commended by both the legal and information centre of NGOs and Amnesty International Slovenia, on behalf of 21 NGOs, which have welcomed some of the amendments introduced by the bill, such as Article 47a. Therefore, in the light of good cooperation so far, we have decided to maintain, irrespective of the initial proposal, the time conditions for the recognition of the right to merge the family with the granted subsidiary protection. For this reason, an appropriate amendment to Article 18 was adopted. However, there was a complication due to a different understanding of the provisions of Article 18, paragraph 1, and Article 18, paragraph 3, of the novel, or then of Article 47b, as amended. While the amendments maintain the current arrangements for family reunification, we have agreed to prepare an amendment for the meeting of the assembly, which will remove any doubt as to how it is possible to understand the provisions of the amended Article 47.b. With regard to the amendments to Article 44 of the current law or Article 13 of the amendment and the related amendment adopted on the home working body, we have agreed that the coalition partners will listen to the proposal of non-governmental organisations, that the issue of abuse that does not meet the conditions for the authorisation of family reunification be re-examined in the light of a systemic solution or in the light of the introduction of safeguards that will prevent these two rights or authorisations from being dealt with separately, beyond the original purpose of inadequacy of the fulfilment of the conditions. The last proposed amendments will therefore be re-examined and regulated in a new amendment to the Foreigners Act, which will bring into our legal order the provisions of Directive 2016/801/EU, for which the implementation deadline expires on 23 May 2018. We will support the proposal of the law and the amendment mentioned by the coalition parliamentary groups in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u101	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you very much. As far as the law before us or on the agenda is concerned, it is, of course, a matter of implementing the regulations of European documents into our legal order, so that the SDS party does not have any particular problems in this part. It is true, however, that in Article 47b, which speaks of family reunification in the case of international protection, we have already tabled an amendment to the Committee and to the meeting of the National Assembly, which, of course, exacerbates the conditions. This means that we want to introduce five years as the period after which family reunion takes place. Why are we suggesting this? Simply because, throughout the European Union, I stress, throughout the European Union, such conditions and many other conditions are exacerbating. And there is no reason for Slovenia to remain an oasis within the European Union, where such conditions or other conditions would be better, because this would, of course, make the country much more attractive to the arrival of migrants. You will remember that in the National Assembly, I don't know, just at the beginning of the year, for example, we discussed that law about public order and peace that talked about burkas, and you were cutting yourself up, I'll say, the media was acting crazy, and they drew me with a burka on my head and so on and so on. But look, now go those few miles to Austria, you'll see they already have them. The Austrians have a marriage, for example. What does that mean? It means the conditions are getting tighter, and we don't get hard enough. This means that we are becoming a country that will be attractive to migrants from this point of view, which, of course, is not good. If our amendment is adopted, we can talk about supporting the laws, but, of course, we cannot support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u103	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u104	Say good-bye to everyone again! The novelties of this law and the amendment of the Foreigners Act are substantively consistent with the transposition of two European directives relating to the residence and work permits of foreigners coming to the EU for work, i.e. Slovenia from third countries. The news related to our legal order in relation to the European legal order relating to the content of the proposal for a law to be dealt with in the next item of the agenda will: with regard to seasonal work that is longer than 90 days, a single residence and work permit will be issued on the basis of the agreement of the Employment Institute; with regard to the transfer within capital-related companies, the directive allows for better use of human resources in a way that makes it easier for employees to move, namely a single permit for all internally displaced workers. With these substantive changes in both laws, it is important that the administrative burdens are eliminated in particular, which they have been alerted to in an economy where, of course, they want to get the requested personnel as soon as possible and with as little paperwork as possible. But in the Desus Group, we warn that despite the lack of certain professional profiles, today we face a significant decline in the unemployment rate even more than three, four years ago, employment and work of foreigners despite the great needs of the labour market must maintain an appropriate standard of respect for and protection of workers' rights. In addition to the changes just listed, which we accept and support in our parliamentary group, this novel has raised a lot of dust in the rest of the work on the working body. This is an anticipated news regarding the pooling of family members enjoying subsidiary protection. In view of the warnings by NGOs that the new regime would actually lead to an extension or until the further departure of the moment when the family could unite, the proposal today has been supplemented by a proposal to remedy such a non-life situation. Similarly, in an attempt by the Ministry of the Interior to prevent abuse of residence permits, individuals have been used to benefit from our educational system. I believe that this will open up a broader debate. In the Desus Group, we will confirm the proposed amendments to the coalition, as well as support other solutions to this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u105	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you very much, again for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We have before us a third government proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act, which is significantly broader, both by articles and by content. Of course, the reason for the adoption of these novelties again concerns the transposition of Directives of the European Union into the national legal order. The Directives concern the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the employment of seasonal workers and the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals in the context of intra-corporate relocation. On the basis of these two Directives, the issuance of a uniform residence permit and work permit for the performance of seasonal works shall be subject to new arrangements. By agreement of the employment authority, the authorisation shall be issued when the seasonal work is intended to be carried out for more than 90 days. For seasonal works to be carried out earlier than 90 days, the Authority shall issue an agreement on seasonal work. However, the second Directive lays down the conditions for granting or extending a single licence for persons moved within companies established in a third country. At the same time, the conditions for short-term and long-term relocation within these companies are also laid down. However, this proposal for a new Law on Foreigners is also linked to the amendment of the Law on Employment and Self-Employment and the work of Foreigners, which we will be considering today at the next item on the agenda. The amendment also redefines the conditions for the entry and residence of citizens of the European Union and their family members. The applicant, i.e. the Government, states that this is the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also based on the response to the introduction of the EU Pilot system due to the alleged incomplete transposition of European legislation into the national legal order. The issue of a residence permit for citizens of the European Union is regulated in a new way. The name of the permanent residence permit for European Union citizens and temporary residence permits for a family member has been changed. I might also point out that this amendment regulates the issue of a residence certificate for children of European Union citizens born in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, some comments were also made on this amendment of the law, both by our Legal and Legislative Service and by non-governmental organisations dealing with foreigners or foreign law. With the amendments, some of these open questions have already been resolved on the parent’s working body. There are two remaining dilemmas relating to the integration of foreigners into educational programmes and the recognition of the conditions and the consideration of the time component for the recognition of the right to family reunification. The Social Democrats will adopt both amendments to Articles 13 and 18 as well as a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Aliens Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u107	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u108	Nice hello to you all! Thank you for your word. I admit that I'm a little angry, and I'd almost ask the president to suspend the session on a procedural basis, but it's basically my fault that I and my expert have forgotten to come to the reading of the position too late. And maybe someone's listening, in Parliament we announce the time we're going to spend on the points, at the previous points eight hours have been announced, usually two-thirds of the time is used, in the middle of meetings in the city I've been running here. Why? Obviously, since you are all on the road, who will take pictures in Hotch in the first place, who will sit on the VIP seat in Maribor, and who will go to the election. But, of course, voters will, unfortunately, forget about it, and they'll be electing related non-employees again. So I'm going to use the time I have, and I'm going to read once for a change. I'm going to read the position first, because that's what the rules of procedure allow me to do. But I hope, Milan, because you're also vice president of the SMC, that you will raise your voice, as you say, on Facebook. It's an attitude. Amendments and additions to the Aliens Act are mainly related to amendments to the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act, which is the next point of this meeting. The law is already problematic in this part, as both cases clearly show the fact that the government does not intend to end the exploitation practices of employers. Although the exploitation of workers in Slovenia, both domestic and foreign, has practically grown into a business model, and violations are increasingly severe, this is obviously not enough for the government and the coalition to end it. Not only does it not want to eradicate these practices, it even simplifies procedures, lower criteria and lower penalties to exploit employers who violate workers' rights. Undiscovered stories about foreign workers who are modern-day slaves, without fundamental rights and dignity, are obviously not enough. The victims of the wrong legislation, which allows this, are not only foreign workers, but also those who have fled to us before the war and are quite certain of death. Even before the Constitutional Court ruled on the possible unconstitutionality of the previous amendment of the law, the Government has already prepared a new, my fellow woman, unfortunately, with regard to such legislation, and this time too, you want to limit the rights of persons with international protection, for example, to limit the possibility of merging with the family. With the coalition amendments adopted, however, you want to abolish the possibility of obtaining a temporary residence permit for all foreign students and students – that was before you stole our amendments, thank you for this – by arguing that this option is being systematically exploited, the government is not even trying to find a protector to prevent it. Rather than that, in your initial proposal, you decided to simply eliminate this possibility, including for those students and students who are in exchange. The policy of widespread violations of rights, the humiliation of the vulnerable and the deepening of the distress they have experienced is, therefore, continuing. And, as usual, we will once again witness the duality of this government and the coalition. Why? We have completed the first round of addressing the changes in the 2018 budget, which, at most, is €40 million, takes on social assistance and social allowances. At the regular session, we will first address the government and coalition proposals that we are considering now, which are violating the rights of those fleeing the war, facilitate the procedures for employers who take advantage of violations of the rights of foreign workers and reduce criminal proceedings at the expense of those who are materially weak. After all this, you will be able to finish this session within a week, even though Milan, by Thursday, if it goes straight ahead, the whole government and coalition will turn the board. Next Tuesday we'll discuss something, the Ombudsman's reports. The Ombudsman points out, inter alia, "to hatred, discrimination and violations of the rights faced by refugees and foreigners, to increasing violations of the rights of workers, both domestic and foreign, to non-payment of wages and social security contributions, to the chastity of employment, to posting abroad, to violence in the workplace," although on the Committee a lady with the same last name as me and the Head of the Labour Inspectorate said that we have all the data, "to the increasingly serious interference with human dignity caused by poverty and the lack of basic good". With all these warnings you will agree with both the government and the coalition, we will commend how they have prepared a nice report, how transparent, how, unfortunately, it is getting thicker. You will agree, despite the fact that the anti-social policy pursued and the anti-social legislation adopted by this government and the coalition, often with the support of the SDS, has only deepened these problems. Only a handful of rich people in this society and country benefit from high economic growth. Poverty, however, still plagues not only the unemployed, but also the employees. And the reflection of everything is also the law on foreigners, the law on foreigners is primarily and always the law about us. The law that makes it easier for you to recognize what kind of company we are. In Levica, we advocate radical social change, and because of this law on foreigners, which deepens the hardships of foreign workers and refugees, we will not support them. Why? Nor is it because what you want now will soon become valid for most of us. And even today, with such policies, many citizens and citizens in Slovenia feel like foreigners. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u109	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u110	I missed my position, too, but I was here in Parliament as opposed to a colleague, and I was not able to come in time. I'm gonna use that to read the position, and then I'm gonna say something else about the amendments, because I have 10 minutes. In Novi Slovenija, we favoured the proposal for a new Law on Foreigners at first reading, since, with regard to the merger of a foreign family with recognised subsidiary protection in our country, it brought a slight tightening of conditions. A foreigner should have lived for at least one year before family reunification in Slovenia and should show that he has the means to support family members. We could attach such a proposal, but unfortunately we cannot say it today, because the text of the full proposal on the right to merge the family with the adoption of the amendments retains the current regime. The condition of the required one-year stay in Slovenia prior to the merger has been abolished, as well as the condition of the provision of means for their survival. The possibility of filing an application for family reunification within 90 days of the recognition of the right to merge is reinstated and the conditions for merger are therefore very broad. In New Slovenia, we also stress that the law still preserves all exceptions to who can be considered a family member of a person with recognised subsidiary protection. Thus, other relatives still have the right to merge, if special circumstances speak for the family union, they are given when there is a living community among other relatives who, due to specific factual circumstances, are substantially similar to the primary family or have the same function as the primary family, meaning primarily genuine family ties between family members: physical care, protection, protection, emotional support and financial dependence. In particular, this means that persons who are not even related to them may also come to our country with a foreigner with subsidiary protection. How can we identify foreigners where their living community is essentially similar to their primary family? In fact, it could be said that it is such a broad description of family or similar ties that cannot be made public in Europe. While other EU Member States tighten the conditions for family reunification, our country still does not take this step to allow this right only to the closest family members. Such broad-basedness also means more resources at the burden of the State budget, which must enable such persons to enjoy all other rights, health care, social protection, education and employment. As regards all these rights, these foreigners are equal to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija, we will oppose the amendment in the light of the above. And I'll keep going. Ten or more years ago, when we wanted to go shopping across the border, we had to show at the border that we had money not to steal. This was required at the foreign border. In practice, the country probably does not have an analysis of how many of these foreigners are in Slovenia, especially from the former brother republics, which have all the ratings that have come as family members. When we talk about the benefits the Roma community has in social benefits and so on – those who pay this in banks say that this means nothing compared to foreigners who have come to Slovenia as family members. That there's a significant number of these. Does anyone have any idea how much of this is before we go into that kind of legislation? On the other hand, when we say that the poverty line is 600 euros per month of income, we have some 100,000 Slovenians. Here, Comrade Trček, I cannot agree with you and with your Member if we have already paid a billion for social services, but you said that when we talked about migrants, we should release 200,000 of them to Slovenia. 200,000 times 300 euros a month. How much is that? By not taking care of those who live below the poverty line. Today we have heard here about the budget by unrelated Members, also read the Fiscal Council's opinion on the budget. I would expect the Fiscal Council to tell its own story in the budget or by having economic growth, a billion more revenue in the state budget, where we will share this money. I don't think we can go through this kind of policy, even though we want to be broad-minded towards foreigners from the former brotherly republics, but if we attract migrants to become a target country, because we offer them everything, and we don't take care of the domestics who live below the poverty line. We have now given charity to those who have a full-time employment under EUR 500 pension, we have said that the minimum is 500, that is to say 40 years of work and the reached age is full. What's the difference? Mercy. Does this stimulate people to pay as much as possible into the pension fund? No, no, no. Because everyone will have at least 500. If they're paying so little. Will they stimulate some espionage to pay as much as possible? No, minimum. Doesn't matter, he'll get 500 euros. Are these 500 euros enough? It's not for survival, it's under the threshold of poverty. What about people with disabilities, those with disabilities in the third category? They don't get jobs, they get 250 euros a month, and because they're disabled, they're not employed, nobody wants to hire them. What about him? I don't know what kind of broad-mindedness we're going to have. I think we need to count each other at home first. But for those foreigners, Slavko Aussenik has a nice song. Don't look for happiness elsewhere than just at home. The amendment made by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group proposing that the right to unite the family be bound to the recognised status of subsidiary protection for a period of five years will be supported in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u111	It's obviously still an interest in the debate. Please sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Mr Lah is already leaving the hall, so I will say goodbye to him: “Someone can get out of SDS, SDS a little harder to get out of it!” But let's be serious. But I'm going to keep going like this, look, I can stay the last fuck in this Europe that won't agree to this kind of populism, and I'm going to be the last class in this Europe that won't agree to this kind of populism. Who destroyed this society and the country, gentlemen? Many of you who have been hanging around here for 20 years! But you know, to me you tell me, what do you, Levi, know nothing, you've never done. What was Janša doing with her life? They have been overthrown by politics and, in 25 years, under the cover of parliamentary democracy, they have established paide-plenilic feudalism. This is what even the SMC learned in two years to say: “From our quotas.” Or what that gentleman in the Desus State Forest says: “It is time for me to come to heaven.” You've ruined this society! Because of you, my mother now has 500 euros in pension and a lot of others! Because of you people, if they don't work in energy, they don't have a payoff, not for strangers! The foreigners then really advised Mr Peterlet to go to denationalisation and return, which Germany could not afford because it was not so rich. This is what the Constitutional Judge Shinkovec talked about in 1996, 1997 if I don’t mind. The aliens did not destroy SDH, it was destroyed by Demos, because it also suited Murglam, as you would say, respected gentlemen. And the number of foreigners you are now talking about to flood Slovenia is, in reality, the number of foreigners of this kind that the average Austrian congregation of the size of Mirna Peci, from which Mr Lah, when 90 thousand foreign refugees came to Austria in the last wave. If we are having a serious conversation, Mrs Ludmila Novak said after a visit to Austria with me that Slovenia is immediately able to accept 5 to 6 thousand foreigners, but of course this is a two-faced policy, once it fits – it does not fit. Hanzek said - what did he say? Mrs Anja Bah Žibert always says, Slovenia will always take care of all the assistance needed, up and down. We can't do this! All the assistance needed in the world is now 66 million. We can't supply them! And when it comes to families that I won't answer, unless Vinko has too much work and day, after all, you are Mr. Mahnic and Mr. Vinko and Mr. Grims, graduate sociologists, including Dr. Brlgez. In sociology, there's something we call a social experiment. I propose that Members of the SDS and Members of the SDS for five years you renounce your family's visits. Yeah, hah, Jean, you're gonna have kids someday, and you're gonna have a little less blouse than you're wearing now, and then we're gonna talk. When it came to the children of John Janš, I leave the third branch of power, whether he was guilty or not in prison, to the theater. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u113	Could it be a little dark?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u114	When it comes to someone else, it's not a theater. [[…]] My dears, you are acting unconstitutional. And, yes, I'm gonna be the last fuck in Europe to talk against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u115	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u116	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Given that I am speaking for the first time at this time, I would like to point out that this novel of the Foreigners Act brings important reliefs for the employment of seasonal workers and for the transfer of workers within connected companies. These changes actually enable companies to make good use of their human resources, as they actually remove perceived administrative barriers from the economy, while respecting both the rights of workers and employers. I would also like to draw attention here to the new provisions that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, has written under this amendment to the Foreigners Act, which have been addressed to us either as an initiative of the Ombudsman or some NGOs working in the field of migration. The bill allows persons who have ceased international protection under the law governing international protection to apply for a temporary or permanent residence permit and thus continue to live in the Republic of Slovenia. By means of a proposal for a law, persons with recognised subsidiary protection status who have not submitted an application for the extension of this protection or a request for the reintroduction of a procedure in accordance with the provisions of the law governing international protection shall be allowed to apply to a competent authority in Slovenia for temporary or permanent residence permits prior to the expiry of the subsidiary protection. An important novelty is also being introduced to regulate the status of illegal residents who have long-standingly been tolerated by Slovenia in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also complemented by a provision providing for the subsequent acquisition of long-term resident status, which includes the recognition of residence to persons who have been deleted and who have obtained an additional or special decision with retroactive recognised status in Slovenia. In the proposal for a law, the provision of adequate means of subsistence in cases of family reunification is aligned with the provisions of the Social Security Benefits Act, which is of paramount importance. Health care for minors is also more specifically regulated. I would also like to take this opportunity in view of the fact that the proposal for a law is substantively linked to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and Work of Foreigners and, in view of the need for simultaneous publication, proposes that the Government adopt laws simultaneously. The Government also proposes that the National Assembly draw up an officially consolidated text of the Aliens Act. We also propose that, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure at the same meeting, a third consideration of this Act should also be carried out if the National Assembly does not adopt amendments to more than a dozen articles of the amended bill. As regards the debate already held on the amendments, it may at first only explain the implementation of the Lach Member so that the debate may be more focused. In view of this implementation, we have somehow observed that the opposition to the amendment was expressed for reasons relating to provisions in the existing law, which, on the other hand, was defined by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which stated what the family was or said what the definition of a family for all foreigners was. I think this needs to be clarified so that we can understand each other. With regard to Article 13 of the draft law relating to the amendment of Article 44, that is, the residence permit for the reason of the study. The proposed amendment to Article 13 amends the text of Article 44 of the Act, as adopted by this amendment, which was adopted by the Home Committee, where we have also explained our views, the present provision of Article 44 under the concept of “second form of education”, the interpretation of which also covers primary and secondary education, has been amended to prevent foreign systematic abuse in the event that they do not meet the conditions, either for granting temporary residence permits for family reunification or for non-compliance with the condition of one-year transitional stay of foreigners in Slovenia prior to merger or for failure to meet the conditions of sufficient means of subsistence. We have already warned on the committee that such visits to our marriages or abuses are taking place, this is clearly confirmed by statistics, since in the period after 1. 1. In 2015, when the provision of the amended Article 47, which provides for a one-year transitional residence of a foreigner was applied before he was allowed to join a family which was actually introduced on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, there was an increase in applications for a separate first temporary residence permit for reasons of study for children aged 5 to 19. During the period between 1. 1. 2012 to 31. 12. 2014 No residence permit was granted to children aged 5 to 9 years under Article 44 and only 4 permits were granted for children aged 10 to 14. From 1. 1. 2015 to 31. 8. Between 5 and 9 years 2015, 127 studies permits were granted to children and 132 children between 10 and 14 years of age. Thus, over an eight-month period, a total of 259 such permits were issued. Such an increase is certainly an indicator of systemic abuse by foreigners who do not meet the conditions for granting family reunification permits under Article 47 of the Law. We were also warned about this in the State Council. We have also been alerted by some administrative units in the last year to a large number of cases where a foreigner or an applicant of an application does not meet the requirement of sufficient means of subsistence for family reunification, which is why the application for a temporary residence permit for children is then submitted for children because of a study where a written statement of parents or legal representative is sufficient to demonstrate sufficient resources for them to support their child during the course of the study. The restriction confirmed by the parent working body in the amendment voted on and, as we have already explained, is also in line with the provisions of the EU Directive under which primary and secondary education is not covered by the scope of the directive, with the exception of the programme of exchange of pupils in the framework of secondary education, which remains in the proposal for a law. In short, the position, as just stated, is based on the duty of forecasting through analyses, taking into account the risks for the future, to actually go against the establishment of a situation management system, which the Ministry of the Interior must point out. In fact, this is a search for security guards, which is seen in this context, in the fact that, of course, it is a problem of such nature that it is only beyond the scope of the Ministry of the Interior and it also interferes with health, social, education and these departments, which must be involved in these situations. Given the reasons I have just stated and for which the text of Article 44 of the amendment of the parent committee has been amended, it is clear that the new text of the amendment does not convince us, for substantive reasons and justification, of the new text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u117	I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I'm listening to this. Look, how long is it with us? We have the age cohort of a generation in just over 20,000, if I add up all the elementary school students who are in college, up and down, how many people do we have in the education system? Milan wins with his head. Let's say 350 grand. On 350 thousand people in the education system, there are 200 people under whom the secretary does not tell us how much they have been violated, abused or abused. Even if one of them abused him, why abused him? You know, there's a lot of talk about abuse. I've spoken here a number of times, once I went to see English data or UK data for the abuse of social transfers, and there were a lot of applications. They also have good neighbors there, and they found out there were 0.4% of the 300,000 reported abuse. Then let's have a real conversation about how many of these abuses are. Now it is clearly the dominant policy of this country, and I will quote Ivica Sherphesia: “Let the woman be at home, wait for her husband.” We're gonna get a nice wall, and we're gonna head in the direction of as big a round as we can. And by doing so, our pensions will be without foreigners, our salaries in a way that we will sell everything to foreigners and through party lines to those who can't make a half out of one euro, let alone 1.2 even worse. We're an old society. We should seriously think about some, yes, serious migrant policy, because what Mrs Ludmila says: "I give every young family a flag." I had a kid in college, I think, Milan, you had one too, then we probably needed something else than a Slovenian flag. After all, what was my daughter shitting on my Slovenian flag, gentlemen? And what you're pecking at here is terrible. And this horror is taking us to hell.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u119	Any other discussions? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on Article 13. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the Left Group and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of MPs. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! I will also support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which prolongs family reunification after they can come for at least five years. Why do I think such an amendment is appropriate? Because we do not want, as Slovenia has been told before, to become a target country. Those who followed the election campaign for the Austrian elections that took place on Sunday know what the coalition is likely to be like, in short, the Austrian People's Party and the Freemasons. We know the attitude of the people's party towards migrants, and we know the attitude of the free people. We cannot afford it now that Austria, which will tighten the conditions, Sebastian Kurz, future chancellor, has already said several times as foreign minister that it is necessary to amend such laws as those relating to the rights and conditions of residence in Austria, in this case also family reunification, and not least, which is certainly also very important and we have not yet talked about here, but that they will also open a debate on the tightening of the social benefits and social transfers received by persons who, for example, have come to that migratory wave first through Hungary and then through Slovenia to Austria. Slovenia cannot afford that at a time when all countries are actually exacerbating asylum legislation, Slovenia would go in the opposite direction and become either a target country or a country that would be used primarily by those who reside here as a social state. I do not agree that foreigners have the same conditions and the same rights as citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. I hear more than once, Mr Trček says, his brother on 600 euros' salary, my mother also for 40 years' working hours on 500 euros, even less, until this law, which has been amended, I would, above all, ask myself, you know, there is a major problem with us that there is a very small difference between minimum wage and social transfers and people with simple logic say, it is best, instead of going to work for a minimum wage, to be on social transfers, to do something else black, which is also a big problem, and of course it comes over a minimum wage. And I wonder what it'll be like in these cases when people have the right to bring their family with them. No, it's not that I would go something and only in five years, as my fellow Member Dr. Trček told me to go, I think he also wrote on Facebook, Members of the SDS abroad for five years and only five years later we see a family. This is not the same, no one is ever, and we have never opposed it from the Slovenian Democratic Party. More than once, we highlighted Slovenia as a holy case when the war in the former Yugoslavia came when the real refugees came, when family reunions also took place. No one objected. We're not against it today. But we are against the fact that people who are currently coming or who have been in the migratory wave across Slovenia have the right to have the right, then to have a family reunion and to have a family reunion and not know how many people. We just don't have the money to take care of these people. The calculations were that with the money that the European Union spends here on average for one migrant, it can help the eight in countries where there are conflicts. Instead of stimulating people with our legislation to go on the road to being part of this European walfar, a state of prosperity, a social state, what I know is all, especially the social states, because unfortunately we do not have and are not a state of prosperity. Let's give this money to help people down. Yes, we were there when their regimes collapsed, let us leave what they were, the great guilt is upon us, we can only pour ashes on ourselves, the European Union, when Iraq was hit, when Libya was hit, we know for what reasons. But if we agree that people need to be helped, let us not make this problem a problem for us to now solve on European soil. Let us save him where Europe has also caused him to a great extent. So, in countries where the crisis is, in countries where it is the origin of these conflicts. With this money that we have allocated to the European Union for these people, for migrants, let's say that the refugee, if he was relocated from Turkey to Europe, because Turkey was the first safe country, I do not support this agreement with Turkish President Erdogan, we see, billions and billions are being paid. And the main question that comes to our attention is what happens after the three billion that the European Union has paid to close the doors to it, taking into account the fact that we have often said that many of these people, refugees, when we talk about the first safe country, continue migrants, are also used as weapons for the purpose of hybrid warfare. We know how Turkey has been increasingly relying on Russia in recent times, such as the geostrategic and geopolitical changed position in the Middle East. And I wouldn't have hoped that the deal currently in force would last much longer. And we must begin to prepare what will happen if the matter is reopened, how to prevent it. One is the protection of external borders, but what is essential is that we people have to make sure that they do not take this path at all by adopting legislation that offers the possibility of coming, and then social transfers, we will not do that. I agree, however, that even if more money is made available to help these people where the problem is that we are solving the problem where we are alone, I speak of course about the European Union, we have caused it, not that we are moving it to European soil and then we are solving it here. We have 300,000 citizens and citizens below the poverty line. You can say it's populism, but I think it's a sad reality that we have a lot of our own people to take care of, not that we stepmotherly treat our own citizens and citizens just to satisfy some international community, where we are much more papal than the pope. And if our neighbouring countries, Hungary has already done so, Austria will do so, and in Italy changes are also being prepared, even though they are primarily dealing with themselves because of the elections, due to the internal political situation, we must also go into such changes. And one such amendment is that Slovenia will not truly become a target country and the country where people will come and exploit our social system.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u121	Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am giving the opportunity to apply. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I will focus only on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. To begin with, I would say that the excuse is that the money spent in countries where people or refugees come from, or those who later receive subsidiary protection, that this money is better spent there, and that this is an excuse for us not doing anything with ourselves today, I just can't buy this excuse. As long as the European Union or Europe is not really doing this, this cannot be an excuse for us to deny them this right. Just until we do it, when we do it, but when we can show it, look, there we did it and we did it, we re-established this system, people can live there, and then we can say, okay, and now our excuse might drink water. Until then, it seems unfair for us to shop in this way, yes, if we gave them there, five times more each euro would be used than if we granted them subsidiary protection here. That's why this excuse is not acceptable to me. Now, if I go for five years or one year. So the person with subsidiary protection is, of course, the State of Slovenia will determine why or if the reasons for this are met. So either a person is threatened by being returned to his country of origin, because I don't know whether it's sexual orientation or political belief, and so on, that he will be tortured or possibly killed and so on. When he receives this protection, he must wait another year and, if extended then, he gets this right. Now you'd give it to me for five years. And you know what five years is for someone who's already threatened at home or killed him or tortured him, and then five years for all his children to grow up without him to wait. Why? If after one year we find that the reasons for suspending his subsidiary protection do not exist, but there are reasons to extend it to him, and we must allow this person to unite with his family on the human side. We all have families, we know what it's like. They'd confess it to someone else, but they wouldn't. I don't think there's any support for this amendment on this human side for me personally. Of course, after the reasons for this protection have ceased, everyone must then leave Slovenia. So it's not like they're gonna stay here now. As long as there are grounds for subsidiary protection, after one year, it seems to me the least human to allow them to unite with their family. I don't see anything wrong with this, but I see the problem of extending it to five years, not admitting it to them, not having a family life to ourselves. But we are talking about people who are facing torture at home and so forth if we return them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u123	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. I am listening to this debate and I fear that, with such a policy, all our children, including children, will soon be foreigners, when and if they will have it. I am listening to this debate, I remember Mr Mahnič once made a difference and said that some believe that something is above us, and others do not, and I remembered those famous, famous stories of Job from the Old Testament: foreigners, persecuted, refugees, he hides them and in exchange to offer his own children, both daughters. Serious comparative theologians see in this story a well - known beginning of human rights. Although I do not go to Mass, but with my youngest daughter we read Bible stories seriously, apparently much more than those who knock on your chest, what Catholics you are, what Christians you are, how you read the Gospel, boda, says one lady. In short, when the young gentleman does not do what he does, by the way, Mr Jean, Kurz has already limited his views in the first statements when it has been indicated that it will be possible to do what will happen. Probably a gentleman studying serious defense. The director of MI6 said: “Migrations will be the problem of this generation, and probably the following.” We can take these migrations seriously, not in the populist way that we are trying now, or we are leaving them in the hands of crime. And that's, in fact, some thing you forget. Secondly, politics is not ashes. However, I am a little impressed by what Mr Jean has said. You're probably in favour of getting out of Nate, because if Europe cooked this, then you're not consistent. And you said if Europe cooked this, sweated on the basis of logic, I'm based on basic education in the science and mathematics technique, the direction of usable mathematics, then the origin of this here, if we cooked it. [[advertising from the hall]] Is it not the source of this here, if Europe has cooked it? Who went to blow up the Middle East if not the Americans because the dollar was tied to oil? That's what a three-year-old knows. In short, if we are already talking, let us take matters seriously. And you're very young. And I don't know if you ever asked your boss, wait, Janez, why my mom and Ducky have such a low pension. What have you been doing for 25 years? Let him ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. That's a nice greeting from me! Very briefly first. It must not and cannot be a question on the one hand if we are to devote the essential necessities to refugees, migrants from countries where there is a war where bombs fly on all sides. On the one hand there can be no dilemma or help our people, so citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can ensure what they need and what they have earned over the long years of work. So, at the expense of assistance to refugees, migrants should not be questioned about social transfers of pensions, decent wages and so on. That's a fact. I think that the artificial question here between one and the other is extremely incorrect. Secondly, migrant waves, migrant pressure, migrant stampede in such dimensions as today, that is unfortunately a fact. Why did this happen? I must say here and look here, colleague Mahnič, they are not things that I often agree with, but here is one thing that I absolutely agree with him, it is necessary to destroy in caly, so there on the hotspots, where the war has escalated, where the emperor has come or whatever we call it, those who have come to work in Libya, Syria, Egypt and elsewhere, and where well-functioning health and other systems, educational systems, broken down, broken down, there is a need to establish, not to say the original situation, but to calm things down and allow people conditions for a decent, decent life. And if the matter is resolved there, of course, if the interest of the great forces that helped to cook this thing, then, as Jean put it, we can also convince people not to flee their homes, from their hearths throughout the wide world. Probably not in their interest to leave their homes, to seek not only happiness or space under the sun, but to go abroad to ensure their bare survival. And I sincerely hope that at some meeting, Jean, when you go abroad, there will be a meeting of NATO, where you are a member, that you will also say that. That it is not the point for these global military institutions of the alliance to come to an area to establish an interest sphere, but also to help where aid is actually needed. If it hadn't been for the fall, if it hadn't been called that, now it's called the Arab Spring, probably also this wave of refugees, this wave of people looking for, no, once again, I emphasize, not their space under the sun, but the place for normal life, for survival, of course it wouldn't have been. And I sincerely hope that the fire will start to extinguish where it broke out, and that it will not be extinguished on the slopes with drops of water from this fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Vice President. As regards Article 18 of the bill or amendment, or Amendment 47.b of Article 47, which regulates the pooling of a family of persons with recognised subsidiary protection. Coalition parties and Levica propose that the 90-day period for facilitating family reunification be linked to the recognition of subsidiary protection status and not to the recognition of the right to family reunification. In this regard, I will give a few brief explanations, which we have already discussed a lot on the committee; however. The merger of a family of persons with recognised subsidiary protection is, as is said, currently regulated by Article 47b of the Aliens Act. The first paragraph provides that a foreigner who has been granted subsidiary protection in the Republic of Slovenia for more than one year shall be granted the right to family reunification. Furthermore, the law provides that persons with subsidiary protection recognised for one year shall be recognised as entitled to family reunification when subsidiary protection is extended in accordance with the law governing international protection; this means, in fact, that a person with a recognised subsidiary protection cannot be combined immediately for one year with his family. However, the third paragraph in force provides that a temporary residence permit shall be issued to a family member of a subsidiary protected person at the request of a person with subsidiary protection who is to submit a request 90 days from the recognition of subsidiary protection status if he wishes to grant relief in respect of the conditions for the authorisation of family members, i.e. proof of the means of subsistence. The amendment of the coalition parties adopted on the parent committee amended the text of the first sentence of the third paragraph, where the sentence “from the recognition of subsidiary protection status” is replaced by “from the recognition of the right to family reunification”; this is in order to make the dictatorship clearer and more unambiguous and in line with the text of Article 47b, paragraph 1. In view of the above, the Government considers that it would be better to retain the text adopted by the Committee, as confirmed by Amnesty International in the letter we have received. Here again, I must express great satisfaction that Amnesty International, as well as the Committee's Legal Information Centre, has made it clear that it is grateful for its cooperation and that it actually praises the cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior in the drafting of this law; which I believe is extremely important because NGOs are an important factor in the work of the Ministry of the Interior. We are also consciously making efforts in this cooperation, which is an important corrective measure, although it is inherently a severe national resource. That is why such a public expression is very important, and it is also very important. As far as the whole context of accepting this novel is concerned, it is very important that this letter also shows that Amnesty International has somehow overcome all those concerns that have been expressed on the committee. It also made clear that they were concerned that the doctrine that was being dealt with could constitute an additional step or decision in which the ministry should specifically recognise whether someone has the right to association. They were concerned that an additional procedure was in place. It is very clear from the letter that in the interpretation given at the meeting by the representatives of the Ministry, we understood that they had in mind that this text was understood to be an application for a merger at the Ministry, 90 days after the right of merger was recognised. However, the recognition of justice sets out the first paragraph, as I just said, they actually read as we do. Then the text of the amendment makes it clear that we see no more problems and we understand this as a correction to the current dictatorship – 90 days after recognition of the status of international protection. And they also write that this current dictatorship was not entirely accurate because those who receive subsidiary protection for just one year have the right to merge only when the status is extended. And so, only after the extension can they apply for a merger, not within 90 days of the granting of subsidiary protection. Since it has now been very clear in this way that the purpose of these amendments, which we also support, is to regulate the text that the legal text is better, that it is not written in a nominal way that anyone could read this text in such a way as to grant this right only to foreigners who have recognised subsidiary protection for more than a year; and that then those who have been recognised for one year and must still be subject to an extension in any way to fall out of this regime. I will also refer to the SDS amendment, which proposes that the right to family reunification be bound to the recognised status of subsidiary protection for a period of five years. Here the Government considers that the recognition of the right to merge a family of persons with recognised international protection five years from recognition of the status disproportionate to the regulation of this concept in the Slovenian legal order.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. It wasn't Nato who attacked Libya, it wasn't Nato who attacked Syria, it wasn't Nato who attacked Iraq. However, it is true that then he came to a large country to perform first the Peacebuilding and then the PeaceEEPing operations. No, I'm not in favour of getting out of the NATO union, because Nato didn't break these countries, and then it's then who came to help and also financially build these countries. However, if there is a coalition of states under the leadership of either France or the United States, which intervenes in a country, this is not NATO. On the other hand, NATO, which is not directly involved in the fight against Daesh or the Islamic State, is a coalition of willing states led by the United States, but this is not the same as NATO, even though some Member States are in one organisation and others. And it's not a coalition of willing states to organize. I agree with this to a greater extent, as Mr Zajc said, how the matter works. Let us ask ourselves how relocation works under these quotas. How many people were transferred compared to what was said? One thing the European Union is doing in relation to migration is not working. Not to protect external borders, not to be able to relocating migrants, especially, and I am saying thank God, because of the opposition of the multi-urban countries. Instead, they threatened countries that opposed it. And it does not help, as it should, to restore systems in countries that have been destroyed. But the Modern Centre Party has Violeto Bulc, who is the European Commissioner, you have the President of the Government, you have the Minister of the Interior who can ask such things why things are not going as well as they should. The Americans started a new campaign a month ago and invested money in people staying in crisis hotspots in safe zones. President Trump said in a speech to the United Nations that for the money that the Americans earmark for one migrant refugee in the United States, they provide 10 people in the countries of origin. And you often say yourself, Mr. Zajc, migrants or refugees. Yes, I am in favour of helping refugees, not in countries of origin, can also help us; but refugees, not migrants. These are migrants. Some of the MPs were down at the border. What conflicts there were in Algeria, Morocco, Iran, where people came from, and they were thrown across the border without any reservations, and they still had no fingerprints. And he wasn't just the director of MI6, who said that migration is a challenge for our generation as well as for future generations. This was also said at the closed meeting of the Committee by the Director of Sove, Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, Mr Zoran Klemenčič. But he also said that with numbers like these, it would be a problem to control the people who are coming; but we took them a few times as many as we did across our borders as he was saying at the time. Help in those countries where people are fleeing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Simon Zajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you. I'll be brief, it'll be more of a replica of Mr. Mahnich. We are not talking about migrants in this article, but we are talking about foreigners with subsidiary protection. And here's the difference. It's about people who aren't refugees, but at home, they may also be threatened with death. We need to separate this, and I don't want to throw it in the same basket. This is about people who are granted subsidiary protection in this article; it will be clear what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you. That's exactly what I warned you to say about migrants and one about refugees. This law refers to refugees who are granted subsidiary protection. Yes, of course, this law speaks of refugees, foreigners who receive subsidiary protection. But what I have said in the end is to whom we give it, to whom we confess it; and to those who are not entitled.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u135	Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I can see that Mr. Mahnic didn't exactly study asylum law. But if you listen to the discourse SDS, what is one key word – says. True refugees, says Slovenians, some presidential candidate is not good enough, and then you beat him up; someone else is also saying that Janez Janša is not real. Mr Mahnic, well-meaningly, at some point it will happen to you that in your client, whom her visible member says: For we are in fact not a customer, we are a private company of one man; you will not be the real one and you will be a refugee. Another story, of course, connected to Nate, not to Nate, but it's this typical duplicity. If I limit myself to Libya alone, all the key countries, many of them also members of NATO, have traded arms with Gaddafi, Mr Mahnic, as you know. And if you're going to solve the root cause, then I hope you'll be on NATO's boards, if you insist on it, not only for the dismantling of nuclear weapons, but also for the dismantling of the war and the military industry. Because internal proliferation is also taking place, which you yourself know well. By North Korea, which is the most shalow about nuclear weapons, Israel. Then let's get down to business on the roots, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Thank you very much. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION, EMPLOYMENT AND WORK OF NETHERLANDS, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u138	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a new Law on Employment, Self-employment and the Work of Foreigners, which transposes into our legal regime two additional European Union directives: the Directive on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the employment of seasonal workers and the Directive on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals within one enterprise. The transposition of the Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment of seasonal workers provides for a new regime for the issuance of a uniform residence and work permit. A single licence shall be issued in accordance with this Act on the basis of the consent of the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia in the event that the seasonal work is intended to be carried out for more than 90 days. The transposition of the second directive, as well as the Republic of Slovenia, follows the objectives of the European Union, allowing capital-linked companies to make the best use of their human resources and to move them more easily within a group of connected companies. This Directive lays down the conditions for the granting of a single licence to persons moved within the same group of capital-linked companies coming from a company established in a third country to an undertaking established in the European Union. Other changes in the law are those changes that have appeared during the implementation of the applicable law on employment and the work of foreigners. It is essential to stress that this bill provides for a clearer protection of the rights of foreign workers employed, in a way that foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia can only be employed full-time and not for shorter periods than they have been before. The amendment also introduces certain exceptions to the legislative framework that will facilitate employment or work for certain categories, as such solutions dictate the needs of stakeholders in practice. It is also proposed that the current regime be amended to facilitate the procedure for giving consent to the institution in cases of issuing a single residence permit and work permit or a blue map of the European Union. Accordingly, in the process of issuing or extending a single residence permit and a work or blue card in the event of a notification of non-compliance with the conditions of the tax liability settled, investors will be allowed to fulfil this condition also at the time of the decision of the institution to grant consent. The proposed amendment is of great benefit to companies that are more environmentally friendly to customers in the process of issuing uniform residence and work permits. There is also a significant change to the prohibitions on the employment of foreigners, which are checked in the procedures for the submission of the consent of the institution to a single authorisation, a blue card or a written authorisation, since in practice it has been shown that the prohibitions on employment or the work of foreigners also in the case of the extension of uniform licences, blue cards or seasonal work permits constitute a disproportionate measure. However, in view of the debate at the Committee's meeting, I would like to make it clear that we are not lifting any sanctions by means of this proposal to amend the law, we are not eliminating any infringements. It is only a case of which the infringements are, in addition to other sanctions, a foreign sanction is imposed so as not to give consent for the extension of the work permit. Respected Members, the law therefore does not abolish sanctions under labour law; nor does it allow employers who are in any way in breach of legislation to obtain consent for new work permits. It is only certain cases where, despite the infringements found, when employers are sanctioned, the worker may still benefit from an extension of his work permit. I suggest you support the proposed amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 48th session. 9. Considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and Work of Foreigners, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and representatives of the Working Group participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an introductory opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the proposal for a regulation in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments to certain articles. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, and supports amendments to the law. The drafter of the law presented the draft law in a brief manner and said that the main reason for the amendment was the partial transposition of the two new directives of the European Union; namely Directive 2014/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the employment of seasonal workers and Directive 2014/66/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals within the framework of intra-corporate transfers. The Committee debate took place, in particular or to the maximum extent, on Article 15 of the proposal for a law allowing employers and foreigners, by means of a new sixth paragraph, to extend their employment or work in spite of legally recognised infringements of the provisions of the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act and the Labour Relations Act. It was explicitly pointed out that the Government proposes to exempt certain minor infringements of national legislation from the employment ban system in the event of the extension of employment or work of foreigners, as it has in practice proved that the current legislation is often not in favour of foreign workers, since the employer has to terminate the employment contract because he has been legally fined for the offence. The proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which the proponents consider to be some kind of compromise between all parties, deleted the most sensitive infringements from the decision. The sanctions for all 17 of the above infringements are, of course, outstanding and in some cases the prohibition of employment for employers is lifted. The employer will no longer be able to employ new foreigners because of the infringement, but it is an agreement to extend the working relationship to a foreigner who is already employed. It is also true that each infringement is subject to a sanction which the employer must abolish; in this case only a foreign sanction is imposed on the employer. The Committee adopted amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 3, 5, 8, 18 and 24; not to Article 15 proposed by the Left Party. The Committee also adopted proposals for amendments to Articles 23 and 15. In conclusion, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments I have put forward, the text of the amended law, which is incorporated into the amendment, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u142	Nice greeting again, thank you for your word. At first, I'd almost wonder if we'd read the same marriage in Levica or not. Why, you'll hear from your point of view. In Levica, of course, we strongly oppose the proposed legislation on the employment of foreigners and also domestic workers in the laws governing this. This time, the government proposal provides for the lifting of sanctions for employers who illegally exploit foreign workers. The amendments made to the proposal are a clear signal to employers that Slovenia will be aware of many violations. The changes do not address the problems of illegal exploitation, social dumping, unfair competition and poor control, which we keep reminding us of in Levica. On the contrary. Solutions encourage the growth of modern slavery and essentially legitimize the illegal exploitation of established business models. The government proposal provided for exceptions to the imposition of sanctions on the prohibition of the employment of foreigners in the event of detected infringements of labour law. For so-called minor infringements, the government has also marked the following infringements: “The employer does not provide minimum living or hygiene standards. Define work over full-time and contrary to the provisions on overtime. It does not provide special protection for workers at night work, does not provide rest or rest, does not pay the allowances.” If I count just one of them. The proposal that even the most neoliberal policy should be stuck in its throat or act indigestively is literally a legal incentive for such bad practices in the employment of foreigners. Why? If we look – and more than once – at the last report of the Labour Inspectorate, we find that these areas are the ones with the most violations – 5,000 violations in the area of payment for work, 700 in the field of working time, 2,000 in the field of employment contract. If the exempted infringements are compared with the extent of the infringements allowed, the proposal cannot be interpreted differently than a clear signal to employers that the government and the coalition adapt to their business models, that in the case of employment of foreigners, the authorities are prepared to support these violations by citing labour shortages. We have therefore proposed to the Committee the deletion of the article in question, unfortunately unsuccessfully; however, the absurdity of the government proposal has recognised part of the coalition. Some Members met with intelligence and proposed an amendment to the committee, which indeed excluded the worst violations from government exceptions; but unfortunately not enough. Infringements continue to result in violations which constitute a significant infringement of labour rights. The non-payment of emoluments and reprisals, the reduction of the right to leave, the payment of wages, the illegal fixing of working time and other infringements in the eyes of the applicants are still considered minor infringements for which the existing sanctions are envisaged to be mitigated. We are faced with a situation when the government proposes an absurd solution, then comes some consensus and this so-called consensus appears to be some kind of violation, which is not really true. With the exception of some solutions related to bureaucratic-administrative procedures to which they would agree, there is, as I mentioned earlier, a whole series of infringements that will still be possible. So where is the solution? Rather, let us deal with the shortage of labour with decent wages. The illegal exploitation resulting from social dumping, unfair competition and the beating of the personal dignity of workers, should be resolved by monitoring the implementation of the legislation, i.e. by means of several proposals and a decision of the Committee, confirmed by the staffing strengthening of the labour inspection. We won't be agreeing to any of the compromises we've been playing in Levica. If our amendment is not adopted, we will oppose the proposal; and our amendment will, of course, overtake such practices of modern slavery. Why will we oppose it, and why should we not accept it? Also because what you now afford to a foreign worker becomes your daily routine tomorrow, or it has been their daily routine for many domestic workers and workers for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Given the improvement of the economic situation in Slovenia in 2017, data on unemployment are also increasing. Nevertheless, employers face the problem of obtaining adequate staff, which is clearly indicated by the data of the Slovenian Employment Institute. With regard to the employment of foreign labour, greater protection and prevention of the exploitation of migrant workers and the removal of administrative barriers to the employment of nationals of the Republic of Slovenia and also third-country nationals should be ensured. In the face of the upcoming shortage of labour accompanied by unfavourable demographic forecasts, Slovenia must also give greater emphasis to migration policy. One of the important recommendations of the Economic Migration Strategy for the period 2010 to 2020 is that migration schemes should be carefully weighed and should not oppose simultaneous efforts to activate domestic people who are able to work; but are unemployed. This is why labour migration policy is based on a labour market control system, allowing access to the Slovenian labour market only to foreigners with jobs that are lacking in the Slovenian labour market. The novel we are considering today partially transposes two European directives into the Slovenian legal system. It is further regulated to issue a single residence and work permit for a seasonal work longer than 90 days; capital-related companies are allowed to move workers more easily in order to make better use of human resources within a group of connected enterprises. Since employers who employ foreigners face the problem of long-term and complex procedures in obtaining work permits, the amendment also introduces certain exceptions to the legislative framework that will facilitate employment or work for certain categories of foreigners. We believe that the changes envisaged in the new Employment, Self-Employment and Work Law will also have a decisive impact on the employment of foreign staff in Slovenia. It is clear that changes in the labour market are an integral part of it, and it is clear that the country must respond to these changes and accompanying challenges in a timely and effective manner. New forms of work are emerging, we are witnessing a discrepancy between supply and demand in the labour market, digitisation, ageing and so on. Although the economic situation in Slovenia is currently favourable, we are still facing unemployment. Since natural unemployment is expected to occur at about 6%, it is clear that the labour force is likely to have to be sought abroad. Although the main reason for amending the law is the partial transposition of directives into the legal order, we believe that changes will have a positive impact on the Slovenian economy and on the labour market or on workers. The changes also respond to the challenges we face in the labour market. That is why we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. All present, welcome! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act regulates the implementation of two European directives. It lays down the conditions for the short-term and long-term transfer of a foreigner to a related company established in the Republic of Slovenia; new rules are the single permit for foreigners to stay and work for the purpose of carrying out seasonal work; provides for compulsory full-time employment of foreigners and provides for certain minor infringements of national law to be exempted from the system of prohibition of employment in the event of the extension of employment or the work of foreigners. Some solutions are good, but we cannot agree with others. Above all, it bothers us that the proposal for a law is dealt with in contravention of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and should be regarded as such as an un tabled proposal, as we have also pointed out before the very examination of the law itself. The draft law was lacking in the content of the law, which the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly consider to be a mandatory component of the bill before the bill can go into the legislative procedure at all. Therefore, the mandatory content clearly lays down the rules of procedure and cannot be a matter of interpreting individuals as to whether there is a substantial or non-essential breach of the rules of procedure. After the first hearing, the Secretary-General of the Government, former Member of the Modern Centre of Mag. Liljana Kozlovič added the proposal to the correct content without the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. on behalf of the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not propose the law. Despite our repeated warnings to the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and to the College of the National Assembly, the legislative procedure continued despite obvious business violations. If the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Working Body, Uroš Prikl, would like to follow the Rules of Procedure, the legislative procedure should begin with a new one, i.e. with a first reading; the bill should not be considered today at the meeting of the National Assembly. We fully understand that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly can be violated by mistake, as has been the case many times in the past; we do not understand that it persists in business infringements, even if it is repeatedly noted. Since the law will not apply until 1 January 2018, it is all the more unreasonable why, in the present case, the rules of procedure have been deliberately violated and the adoption of the law has not been postponed to one of the following meetings, as it would still be sufficient time for the adoption of the law. We do not intend to cooperate in such an intention to violate the Rules of Procedure and the arrogant towards the rule of law, so we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Nice greetings to all present! The New Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment, Self-employment and Work of Foreigners is substantively consistent with the amendment of the Law on Foreigners, concerning the transposition of two European Directives relating to residence permits and the work of foreigners arriving in the European Union from third countries, i.e. Slovenia. If we have faced a very critical mass of unemployed people in the past, it exceeded 124 000 in 2013, and the last period shows a different picture. The number of registered unemployed persons fell below 81 000, this is a significant improvement, the data is very encouraging. However, some experts already warn of the situation in the labour market without first using domestic capacity to suggest a new problem, which is a shortage of labour. I am talking about the personnel that cannot be obtained in Slovenia because they are either simply absent or are not provided with appropriate education and training policies so that they can employ unemployed people and retain quality young people in the country. Let us not forget that even the OECD warns Slovenia that it does not invest sufficient resources in active employment policies. In addition, it is important to remember that the labour market is still not regulated in such a way as to prevent infringements of labour rights, Holidays and poorly paid jobs. More about this on some other occasion, which must be leaning wider. Connecting unemployment and labour shortages to the needs of the economy; active employment policy measures and education offers are essential. As regards the position of the Desus Group on the specific content of the novel, I should like to point out my support for the proposal. News related to our legal order in relation to the European legal order will be: as regards seasonal work that is longer than 90 days, a single permit will be issued to stay and work on the basis of the consent of the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia; with regard to the transfer within capital-related companies, it will be possible, in accordance with the Directive, to make better use of human resources in a way that makes it easier for employees to move, namely, a single permit for all transferred workers within the company; and the possibility of exceptional employment for foreigners who are athletes is provided that there is no need to verify the possible existence of registered employees in the employment establishment; while in the Desus Group we do not need to set an exception for any other area. Protection of the rights of employees of foreign workers is a topic that has already taken place many times at the thematic meetings of the competent committee. In the Desus Group, we find that the abuse of foreign workers by proportion and by the severity of the infringement is even worse than is the case with our employees. This novelty introduces a guardian for them, namely the general obligation to employ a foreign worker for full-time work. The last point of content to which the proposed amendment also relates is related to the question of the continuation of the work of foreigners or of the work permit if his employer has infringed labour legislation. In the Desus Group, we do not want the silence to be given to unfair employers, that is, those who violate the rights of employees. However, we note and agree that the prohibition of employment of foreigners, which may follow as a sanction for minor infringements, and the fact that the employer has already been fined and has ceased the infringement may constitute a disproportionate measure in view of the consequences that the employer would otherwise have suffered. As a result, this must face a shortage of labour. This type of sanctions against the employer would also have an adverse effect on the worker who should return to his country. These are the reasons why, at this point in the Desus Group, we agree that the worst sanction, this is the prohibition of hiring a foreigner, is only maintained in cases of worse infringements, which at the same time also mean the most frequent infringements that directly affect workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u150	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new law forms part of a package of legislation that regulates the status of foreign workers in the Republic of Slovenia in a comprehensive manner and partially transposes into the national legal order two new European Union Directives, namely Directive 2014/36/EU, which regulates the issuance of a single residence permit and work permit or a blue card for the purpose of performing seasonal work. A single licence shall be issued on the basis of the consent given to the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, at a time when the proposed seasonal work is longer than 90 days. In order to carry out a seasonal work of less than 90 days, the institution shall issue a permit for seasonal work, which has already been transferred to the law. By transposing Directive 2014/66/EU, the Republic of Slovenia also follows the objective of the European Union, allowing capital-linked companies to move more easily within a group of connected workers. For the Directive lays down the conditions for issuing a single licence for persons moved within the same group of capital-linked companies coming from a company established in a third country to an undertaking established in the Republic of Slovenia or to an undertaking established in the European Union. In order to enhance the protection of the rights of employed foreign workers, only full-time employment of foreigners and no longer for a shorter period of time is permitted. The provision which has probably raised the most dust and which is also subject to an amendment, which we will not support in our Group of Members, is the one which proposes the abolition of a disproportionate measure of one-year prohibition on employment or the work of foreigners while extending uniform licences, blue cards of the European Union or seasonal work permits in the event of minor infringements of the provisions of this Act or the Labour Relations Act. We have also re-examined the proposed provisions in the process of adopting the law on the basis of the views of the unions, and we have improved them on the committee, and we can therefore say that the law is now adequately amended and amended in this part. One of the main solutions to the bill is also certain exceptions that will facilitate the employment of certain categories of foreigners, such as athletes, or the assignment of training workers. It is also proposed that the current regime be amended to facilitate the procedure for the consent of the institution in cases of the issuing or extension of a single residence permit and the work or Blue Card of the European Union with regard to conditions which have proved non-life. It is estimated that the proposed change is a step towards a more friendly environment towards the parties in the process of issuing uniform residence and work permits. In the field of the labour market, processes and changes are going extremely fast and dynamic, so we need to pay constant attention to the anomalies that are emerging and must be removed from the road. In our Group of Members, we believe that this novel brings some good solutions and answers to perceived problems; and since these solutions represent additional protection for workers, we will also support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners is part of a package of legislation aimed at fully regulating the status of foreign workers in the Republic of Slovenia. Speaking of a package of legislation, I'm thinking about a novel of the Foreigners Act. The employment situation in the labour market is changing rapidly, requiring rapid response from all social partners. As a result, legislation governing this area is more frequently amended. This time the amendment, according to the proposer, by transposing a Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment of seasonal workers to a new regulation granting a uniform residence and work permit for the purpose of performing seasonal work. A single authorisation will be issued following a new authorisation on the basis of the approval issued by the employment agency in the event that a seasonal work is envisaged for a period of more than 90 days. In order to perform a seasonal work of less than 90 days, the institution shall issue a seasonal work permit. The transposition of the Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the context of transfers within one company of the Republic of Slovenia follows the objectives of the European Union, allowing capital-linked companies to make the best use of their human resources and to move them more easily within a group of connected companies. The Directive lays down the conditions for issuing a single licence for persons transferred within the same group of capital-related companies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, due to these solutions, we will support the amendment of the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 16 October 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. I listened to these views, I listened to what the secretary of state said, and then I wondered if we had read the same marriage. We are; but in fact we are very different. The latter, who represented the position, said that corporations would be easier to move human resources, the labour force. I come from Maribor, corporations decide to make an internal reorganisation, in Parliament they would say fiscal, and then one year Henkel pays a few million tax on profits, which is very low in Slovenia, and the next year it is paid only 300 euros. Why? Because of the internal reorganisation. And obviously we're not worried about that in the National Assembly. He's a little bit of a head-wrecker, so I'll say something. When the Secretary-General of the OECD, Mr Guria, was here, we went to lunch and Mrs Ludmila, whom I respect as a politician, began how much business is taxed on us, how hard it is, how hard it is up and down. Mr Gurria replied: “Not really.” Let's go back to the law. Why are we making this amendment? If we have a problem with the labor force, if we don't have one, let's ask why it's not. One time, I was sent somewhere by Mira Cerar. My brother was doing a so-called Russian exchange in Revoz, you know what the price and what the pay is. Our merchants work in Hofer, Lidl, because the prices of final products are the same or even higher than in Austria, and already in Austria traders have no high wages, but with us they have – how much. Where do the profits come from? Where did the profits from the Swiss loans come from? Let's get serious. And in this proposal proposed by the Government, you have actually used the European Directive on discharge; let us give these foreign workers even more time to cut. I could now list stories from strawberry collectors, the construction sector, to what kind of things are going on in Luka Koper. And then, as I have already said in my position, some members of the coalition have met with intelligence, little has stolen our proposal, but there are still so-called minor violations, which will cause the employer to carry out these modern forms of slavery ; and this is again a quote from the English word. [[…]] Two English policies with thirty years of experience that I met in Rome when we discussed precisely these matters no longer talk about human trafficking, but literally about modern slavery. In short, what is still a minor violation? I quote: “The employer shall determine the full time in contravention of Article 143 of the Labour Relations Act.” This means that it determines the full working time, which is longer than 40 hours per week. “Working time runs contrary to Article 148 of the Labour Relations Act. The worker shall not be granted the right to annual leave in accordance with the law governing working relationships.” If you don't leave your family here, this worker won't even be able to go home if I tie to one of the previous points, because you won't give him leave; and it'll be a minor violation. “The employer shall, without the employee’s written consent, settle his claim to him with his obligation to pay.” Pay up! And sometimes I drive with taxi drivers when I have to go in the morning, and so far, domestic workers say, "U, boss is fine; if the tire breaks, don't tear me away from my salary." “The employer shall not pay the worker any deductions or regress in accordance with the law.” I am not a Ljubljana lacanov school, but Slavoj Žižek said years ago: Go see how they treat workers in China, so they will treat workers in Slovenia and Europe in 10 years. And that's the problem. A few of my former students have been working with invisible workers in our country through civil society organizations. Maybe we don't see this misery, and in this misery, there are our workers who are going abroad. As I have repeatedly said, two thirds of trafficking in human beings in the European Union is of an internal nature. Our construction worker will go to Germany, they will not pay him, the German knows it, but he does, he says, "I paid him." He'll go to court, I know some lawyers, I know a story, they'll say, "Lord, for you had a good salary there, 35 gross." He will answer: Of course I had 35 gross because otherwise the German would not let me in; but of these 35 gross he picked me up two-thirds because he took me upstairs because he gave me lunch because we slept like chickens on a truck in a dumpster. And these are the facts of this modern - day slavery, because we're just going to land and we're going to marry it. If you're reading the Slovenian Constitution, we can't do that. And that's why this article goes because every worker should have the same rights and every worker should be paid fair wages for the same work, whether domestic or foreign. Today, in a globalised society, there will be many of us — domestic and foreign workers. And mature parliamentary democracy is not that you find something in my mother's language called kicking a cat to find someone you can beat, but you're beating it; but constitutional parliamentary democracy comes out of the Constitution. Such proposals are unconstitutional if we seriously read the Constitution. And also because of this, we cannot use a directive over and over again, to abuse some people; and usually foreign workers, except for rare exceptions, especially those who are supposed to be lacking, are those workers who do the most dirty jobs that do the poorly paid jobs that we do not want to do. There's no big difference between Slovenia and Mexico. When any American president needs Mexicans — hops — he does not see them crossing the border. But when he doesn't need them, some Jagermasters come to the border. I'll stop at this point. We seriously read every marriage. Thank you for the wisdom that someone in the coalition has met little or no intelligence, but these exceptions that are here are too severe and still systematically allow some business models on which the economy in Slovenia has been founded for too long. With such business models, gentlemen, we who accept this will not have the same pensions as our parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I respect and in New Slovenia we respect the political views on important issues of each of the parliamentary groups. But we know how parliamentary democracy works. I am happy if anyone ever stumbles, troubles or even commends the position of New Slovenia. I also respect some constant attitude of the Left, which says – at least most of them, I hear many debates from their parliamentary group – that the European Union is not a true union of nations and nations. They're always defending it, they're constant, they're principled. We, New Slovenia, are just respecting the will of the people. On March 23, 2003, a referendum was held, and one million voters came to vote. 90% of voters in Slovenia opted for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Yes, it has to do with, dear and respectable colleague Dr. Franc Trček, this is about the implementation of the European Directive. It's our commitment. In this family, it's our commitment. We have decided on this, we have changed the Constitution, as you well know, and we are constantly implementing the European acquis into our legal order. And that's it. You stumble into what our views are. In addition to our office you walk, thank God many times you also turn in; I hope you still have on your bookcase you still have our program, the New Slovenia program. The headline states that we are advocating an economic model of the socio-market economy, not just market; the socio-market economy. No models are ideal, I know that, you know that more because you're a university teacher; but you always have to have a goal, some framework that you're approaching at some time limit. That you have a compass, that you know how to type an address in a navigation, that goal, where your political agenda should then lead you, your political principles. Of course, this directive is not ideal either, of course this law is not ideal and none is. But I liked it very much; I apologize if I do not exactly repeat your statement: Every worker must receive a fair payment for the same work. I'll sign it three times! Sometimes, or even today, we have said a little differently: For the same work the same payment. We probably agree here, too. But then we have private schools and state schools. I'm sorry, Dr. Duck. Dr. Trček teaches at a public school, read a public school, count 7; Jožef Horvat teaches students the count 7 in a private school. Dr. Trček, you are saying that we must not earn the same or that the parents of these children must have freedom after the Constitution and have the freedom of parents after the declaration of human rights to provide education to their children in accordance with their philosophical, religious and so on principles. [[…]] So count of 7, count of 7; you say – different payment. Wow, this is where we run. And we still have a lot to talk about here. This is me, this conversation, this dialogue, this argument, also some comparison with developed, old democracies, if you want, I kind of miss and advocate, and I want that. Your amendment, however, is worth serious consideration and we will take the final position until the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Peter Pogacar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the proposal by the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, I would first like to explain what Article 15 refers to. The point is that, by amending Article 15, there is no infringement, no sanction in the law. All that is provided for in Article 15 shall be determined as to which infringements in accordance with the basic legislation, the Labour Relations Act and the Employment Act and the work of foreigners are fined by regulatory decisions; however, there is no lateral penalty for non-consenting to the extension of the uniform working permit; and for extension. This means that, even after the amendment of the law, the employer, where the labour inspector finds any infringement in the field of the Labour Relations Act, in the field of the Employment Act and the work of foreigners, any infringement occurs, the inspector shall sanction him, give him a fine, the inspector may issue a regulatory decision; the foreign sanction is that this employer cannot obtain consent for a single work permit in the next 12 months. The only change here is that for certain infringements – and which infringements are these, an amendment of the coalition was adopted on the parent committee, I must say here that the members of the coalition have been very careful to examine which violations were committed, where the employer will receive an agreement for this particular worker to extend the uniform working permit. Mr Trček, Commissioner, mentioned the rules on working time. No, no, no. Infringement of working time rules is sanctioned. The employer who infringes this shall neither obtain consent nor grant a new work permit nor renew a work permit. It is a violation of whether the employer has properly redistributed working time in internal acts. And what I want to stress here is this. In any event, even after this amendment of the law, if adopted, the employer will be subject to sanctions under the provisions of the Labour Relations Act under the Employment and Labour Act. There's no forgiveness here. What has proved to be true in the practice of implementing this law? That for certain infringements — despite the fact that the infringement did not apply at all to this worker — the employer has already resolved the infringement in the meantime, such as paying the regress, paying the pension. The infringement did not apply to this employee either – for this employee the employer could not obtain consent to extend the uniform working permit. What was the result? The employee lost his job, went to the employment agency, and if he didn't find a new job, he had to go back to his home country. I don't know if it's really in this employee's best interest. In certain cases, it is certainly in the worker's interest that the employer who has corrected the infringements that were not in the case of both of course agreeing that any infringement of the Labour Relations Act, any violation of the Employment Act, of the work of foreigners, is rejected. [[…]] There's no dilemma here, and that's why there's sanctions, so they're fines. Here we are talking about the fact that, in certain cases, when the infringement occurs, when the employer has resolved this infringement, it is still agreed for a specific worker to extend his work permit so that the worker can stay and work here. I can say that the debate on the parental committee in this work has been very thorough, we have practically reviewed indeed after all the violations of the Labour Relations Act, which are of all the violations which are all of which must be sanctioned and also, those in which the employer can still obtain the approval of the Employment Office to extend the work permit for the worker who is already working with him. In any event, the employer will not receive, if any infringement has been established, an agreement to issue a new working permit for a new worker; but for that worker who, after 12 months of expiry of a single work permit, wants an extension for him. Our idea, the government's proposal, has only gone to the point that certain infringements are, however, those where fines are imposed in any case, are subject to a regulatory decision; however, this foreign sanction does not give consent to the extension of the work permit, which is not always in the interest of this particular worker. The infringement by this employer may not have been at all over this particular worker, for whom extension of the work permit is requested, could have been entirely elsewhere. That's all it was about. There is certainly no intention of the bill-maker, there is no intention of the government to give any discharges to violators of labour law in any way. All sanctions remain the same, all sanctions remain in law, it is only a procedure, the criteria when the employment agency gives its consent to extend the uniform work permit. I believe that I have not been clear enough, but we will continue to talk in the debate. Speaking of which, Mr Vice-President, I propose that, on the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of this meeting, a third consideration of the draft law be made also. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, it's also time to forgive. In fact, you allow employers who abuse foreign workers, the Court of Auditors would say, corrective measures at a certain time. You somehow tell him: You can keep doing these scams, and then maybe I'll punch you once. That's one. Second of all, a colleague of Premur's Jože went out, and we do a lot of work in small parties. Anyone who is seriously involved in European affairs knows that directives have some space due to different practices in the European Union; and then we transfer them to our legal order, as it is called. In Slovenia, we usually carry them around pretty stupidly, or we don't read them well, to our own detriment; they are often deliberately carried to the detriment of workers and workers, employees. And that's a big problem. Mr Premur's colleague said that we Slovenians decided then to go to the European Union. At the same time, we have not decided to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I always declare myself a constitutional patriot, which sounds too right to my leftist, but I insist. I am a Member in constitutional parliamentary democracy and the fact that we are in the European Union, whatever directive is already coming, does not mean that we put the constitution under the table. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of our mandate, we have one small sea of anti-constitutional laws. Mr Vinko has frankly said that the Foreigners Act is against constitutionals. Yes, I can find you in a magnetogram. [[…]] And that's actually the problem. You're basically making this leave possible. We only want to close this discharge in Article 15. Third time, which is some real problem. We're going to have, we're going to have a 9.5 billion budget, and in eight years, our work inspectorate has dropped by a tenth. Where did it go down? It decreased by one quarter in those inspectors who were supposed to deal with working conditions and safety at work. During the same period, the number of legal entities has increased by one fifth; there are also hugely forced espouses in this one-fifth, we know that, frankly. And over and over again, when we're in the United Left, now the Left, we're proposing an increase, a doubling of the number of people at the Inspectorate who also need some time to study, and if I translate it into gross wages and all, we're talking in 2.5 million versus three, I can't find all of these pennies. And that's the ideology of the heart. And here is the difference between Levica and the rest of Parliament or most of Parliament, although many Members from Nelevice personally disagree, but they press the keys, as the bosses say. And that's the key problem. I already said that we in Slovenia have to give honor and power, as we once said, to be respectful of employees, in all forms of ownership employment, including cooperatives; because we have the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister and what he has done. And I think he wanted to do something, but he wasn't allowed. And don't write some smart specialization strategy just in your head – we'll be smart about it, we'll be smart about it. We've been proving for 25 years that we're not very smart. And the next two governments need to develop the economy so that we have a minimum wage – I would like to say a jury like Karl Erjavec like to say about pensions, but you have made too much money for this country – at least EUR 800. Sectors that cannot achieve this need to shut down, simply because these sectors with such salaries, and not to mention my brother again, are causing future social problems. And no matter who forms the government, or Jean-Mahnič, or Miha Kordish, or anyone else, must be aware of it. And that's a problem we don't deal with. There are, of course, certain sectors that do not generate money to ensure such wages, but are of general social importance, such as long-term care. Miha often talks here about caregivers in the homes of older citizens in the municipalities and elsewhere; we must provide them with decent salaries through transfer, through the budget. Whether these specific people will be born in the same village as Marian Pojbič or Moldova. Yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Janja Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I will concentrate only on the first part of my speaker's debate, which actually referred to the concrete amendment, the amendment tabled by the Left. Although we have been on the committee, as Mr Secretary of State has said, we have really gone through these things in detail, but I will. We have also very carefully focused on the content of what was proposed in the proposal of the Modern Centre Party. I must say that we have sat a lot on this subject, talked about each indent separately, talked to the Labour Advisory and came up with a solution that was also adopted in the form of an amendment on the Committee. That is not true, Comrade Trček, which you say we will now accept that some remedial measures will be possible, on the basis of which, as you said, "we will be able to do this once and for all." That's not true. And, as Mr State Secretary has said, the main sanction for the employer remains. For all the violations that have taken place so far, there remains a transaction. We are talking about the side penalty, and this is the only thing about extending the work permit for a worker who is already working with this employer. Here I must say that we have gone very selectively through these changes, and we have consistently insisted in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that it is impossible to retain in the text those infringements in the employer relating to personal integrity, the dignity of the worker, to his living conditions or to his working hours and to pay for this work. All that stuff I've just listed has been flying out. The rest is: if the employer fails to return the seasonal work permit within the prescribed time limit, if he does not report the start of the service, if he does not keep the documentation; such things have remained, we have agreed to these things. We cannot, however, agree with the Ministry that matters relating to the minimum living and hygiene standards of the worker or that the employer does not give the employee a written contract of employment or its cancellation. [[…]] Or as regards working hours, working protection at night, that the employer must absolutely comply with all the time limits for work and that it must be given a break during working hours and rest during consecutive working days; we have thrown all of this out for these reasons. And what happens now? An employee whose infringements do not concern the employer at all or are related to the infringements that I listed earlier — no record was kept — the employer did not report the beginning — cannot be extended to the worker for such infringements. And that's a shame for the worker, for the same worker you want to protect because he's out of work, he's going to the employment office, he's getting social transfers. But if he doesn't find another job, he even has to go back to his country. That's what I said, and that's what we're talking about. I think in such a case the worker is essential to the worse, again the worker. We're not talking about the employer. And all of these things that I've listed, which concern his working conditions, which concern his personal dignity, his life, some minimum hygiene standards, all went out, because we absolutely cannot agree with this to become some kind of discharge, as you say. But I absolutely agree with you when we talk about never being able to talk, not in this context or in any other context, about more important, less important violations; or if we call them grave, less harsh, I don't know which. It doesn't matter how, we name them; it's still a violation. And let me point out that there are still exactly the same criteria for registering employers with negative references under the Labour Market Regulation Act, which are completely identical. That doesn't change anything. The institution still does not travel to such an employer. It's only so much that we've really cleared these things up, and I hope you've looked at what's actually left in there now. Not even a glimpse of what was originally meant to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Runk, replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague, I fell together last year and this year at the beginning of the holiday, collapsed. I probably didn't fall together because for a year I would hunt pochems by the byte or like some MPs watching football, karate, film; or like some MP when I'm dead, I'd watch for almost four hours what shoes they'd buy. I work here, for which I am also quite decent, given the general situation in Slovenia, paid. But the Secretary of State and you, in fact, are abusing the fate of a particular employee. Actually, you told me what the problem was. This man then comes to a social transfer; this is how you can understand. Whatever you're doing, we should say - Okay, there are bureaucratic mistakes. It's the same as the law you don't want to change, and Vinko warned you that I wouldn't just criticize him. Someone's going to write a Turkey instead of a Duck when I go on a farm tourism, and you're going to screw him so he can't live. Bureaucrat errors happen. Mrs Natasa Trček, who happens to have the same last name as me, did not watch whether we were related or not, said, "We see everything, we have everything, we have everything to look at." Of course, we live in an information society. And we should have zero tolerance for violations of any labour law; even if we hire a Martian! And there is not a story here, as the Premur Member said: the European Union is up and down. This is also the role of some small countries, which may be large in a group of countries. To say: We in Slovenia will not violate labour law. There's actually a problem here. My experts and I, of course, are reading the laws and the commas and the letters, and we're all over the place. I — I don’t know if my colleague was in the hall — commended in his position that the coalition had finally encountered little intelligence and that you had left or walked, as it is called, very selective; but something else fell out in this selectivity. And that's the content of it. I am saddened, however, that this is the area controlled by the Social Democrats, who are predicting that they will run the next government; they have proposed such a law. I hope that if someone works or wants to work, if something gets a little close to him – I too will be a little populism, as was my colleague from New Slovenia – that it is clear to him that without Left in the next government there will be no better conditions for working in this society and country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Peter Pogacar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I appreciate that the honourable Member Mrs Slug has very carefully presented the final solution that was drawn up at the meeting of the home working body, with the help of all the coalition Members. Mr Trček, Commissioner, said that the problem is that this worker will end up on social transfers. That's not what this is about. We ourselves see the problem because this worker, if not extended his work permit, will be terminated by the contract of employment under the law itself. Otherwise, he will be entitled to a relatively short compensation for unemployment if he does not find a job at that time. If he fails to obtain a new work permit at that time, he must return to his home country. All those infringements that have remained in the home committee after being dealt with are those that the worker may also recover on the way to court. I believe that the worker will make this much easier for his employer if he actually resides in the Republic of Slovenia, than if the Republic of Slovenia returns him to his home country and leaves him to exercise his right from a foreign country. That's what this is about. Let me do it again. All violations of the Labour Relations Act, all violations of the Employment Act and the work of foreigners - I think we have a unified opinion here - are discarded, must be detected, prevented and severely sanctioned. And that's what the legislation stipulates. We can also talk about even higher sanctions, the question is how much higher fines and sanctions would have affected us. None of these violations, none of the sanctions shall be lifted, shall be reduced. Absolutely not. The essence of this proposal is, however, those violations — which, in spite of the fact that the inspector has identified them — and are not, as Mrs Servant put it nicely, which would in any way relate to the dignity of that worker or any payment for the work of that worker or for the allocation of working time — where the employer will be penalised by fine, by a regulatory decision; it will not be sanctioned by not being able to obtain consent for that worker to extend a uniform working permit. That's all we're talking about. There's no redundancies here for the employer. The suspension of this foreign sanction for minor infringements of labour law relates only to the extension of the work permit; even in such infringements, this employer will not be given a new consent to a new work permit. Nothing changes here, because this is a very effective sanction. However, the question is whether, for all infringements, the institution must not give consent to extend the uniform working permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Servant, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u168	I checked in earlier because I absolutely want to reject these instigations, Comrade Duck. Never and never will I allow anyone to tell me that I have taken a solution so that a foreign worker will not receive a financial compensation at our employment agency. I absolutely reject that claim. I never said that. The solutions that we now have on the table in the Modern Centre Party Group have been viewed exclusively through the eyes of this worker – what is wrong with this worker, what is wrong with this worker and what happens to him if he does not get an extended work permit. And if he doesn't get a extended work permit, he has to go to the office and really get social transfers there; in the end, he's threatened because he can't find another job to go back to his country. It's absolutely from this employee's point of view that it's something that's not good for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u170	Good, if I translate this moral-ethical story now, as told by a colleague – it is good for a foreign worker to work in companies where labour legislation is being violated to a lesser extent in Slovenia, and we will extend it to the worker. Okay, I'm not going to argue with the Secretary of State, but at the same time, there won't be a need for unemployment compensation for a short period of time. You are now abusing the story of a specific worker, for whom you are insanely concerned, at the expense of not watching why this shit has been happening in Slovenia for 20 years. And this is also pure ideology in the purest form. If I was still teaching, I was only teaching for 10 hours, my colleague mentioned me earlier, I'd give a case study to students to study what it really is. Please, omica, but I would not like to be offensive to a specific religion; any preacher who would speak that way at any mass would say - don't plant me a pumpkin. And that's what this is all about. Let's face it; we fucking belong – I'm sorry to say so – to this and to this ideological [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u171	Mr. Duck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u172	We represent the spectrum and that kind of attitude towards workers and workers; dots. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u174	No, Comrade Duck, I know that no matter what I say now or anyone else will say, you will insist on yours, you will repeat the same line you repeat here today and which colleague Kordish repeated without ceasing on the committee. But it's not true! No infringements are acceptable and no exemptions are granted to employers. The main sanctions remain intact, the main sanction, fine, remedying the infringement. All of this needs to be done by the employer. And it's only when he does that, and when he proves he did that, then we're talking about some side sanctions, just from the worker's point of view. There is no increase in leave, no promotion of violations of labour law or anything like that, as you claim.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u176	I believe that certain Members and Members, particularly in such parties, do not have the time to have enough work to do, I seriously think, and the first was cynical. I come from Maribor, and a foreigner says to me, "The Fotr and the son have 10 companies, they collide us, that we don't know for ourselves anymore, I'm one month at one company, another month at the other, third at the third. This story won't drink water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate the 17th agenda item and the 34th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-17-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u178	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 12, 13, 9, 16, 17 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, following an urgent procedure We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 17. Ten. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 5 votes in favour and 54 votes in favour. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia, in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 71 Members and Members were present and 44 were voted against and 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on the regulation of the situation of students, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2017. We decide to amend Dr. Milan Brglez's proposal to Article 1. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, 67 were voted in favour and no one was against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the proposaler, Dr. Milan Brglez, to Article 7. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 8. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 8 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the proposaler Dr Milan Brglez to Article 7a. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 8. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 8 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, 67 were voted in favour and no one was against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Ambassador Milan Brglez to Article 8. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour, none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding a second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2017. The amendments of the Left Group to Article 13 under Article 1 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD to the same Article under Article 2 are essentially the same, so we will vote on them together. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 13. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 19 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 18. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Left Party to the same Article under number 2 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to the same Article under number 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments of the Left Group to Article 18 under Article 2 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD to the same Article under Article 3 are the same and we will therefore vote on them together. We therefore decide on the amendment of the Left Party and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 18. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour and 16 votes in favour. [[The vote is 51.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the debate suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should also hold a third reading of the bill at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour and 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 13 and 18 of the amended law. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to these Articles. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour and 22 votes in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 9. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners, in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Ten. 2017. We decide on the amendment of Article 15 of the Left Party. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 42. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 16. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Employment, Self-employment and Work Act. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. We will vote on the proposals for decisions on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government of 17. Ten. 2017, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the first proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr Anjet Logar, on the bank hole. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on a second proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Violeta Tomić, on the addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with which the national community would recognise the status of minority national communities from the breakdown of the SFRY. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 54. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the third proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mrs Ludmila Novak's question on ensuring justice and equal criteria for all citizens. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the unification of case law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the fifth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, and Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, to the question of the issue in the homes for the elderly. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the sixth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravko Počvalška's response to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the provision of financial resources for the implementation of the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region in the period 2010-2019. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the 7th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, and Mr. Zdravko Pavlovalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to the question of Mr. Franz Trcko, on the budget for 2018 and 2019, both ministries in the field of the Smart Specialisation Strategy and the position of work and the safety of workers. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the eighth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, to Mrs Jelka Godec's question on the common public procurement of vascular resistors. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the ninth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irene Majcen, to Mr Zvonk Lah's question on the decommissioning of landowners. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the 10th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irene Majcen, to Mr Daniel Krivac's parliamentary question regarding the Triglav National Park. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the eleventh proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. Lilliana Kozlović asked Matjaž Hanžka about the regulation and improvement of the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the 12th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irene Majcen, to the parliamentary question of Mr Marjan Dolinška regarding the construction of the hydroelectric power plant, the Central Sava. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 33. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the 13th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Anton Persak to Mr Violet Tomić's question on ownership of the Pro Plus media house. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 34th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
