ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Violeta Tomić, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Iva Dimic from 2.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Mrs Andreja Potočnik, mag. Matthew Tonin from 2.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Mr. Jernej Vrtovec from 2.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m. Franc Trček by 2 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek by 1 p.m., Mr Marko Ferluga from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., Mr Simon Zajc from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. Dušan Verbich by 3 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Service Act as necessary. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u2	Hello! Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the new Law on Medical Services in front of you, we follow the guidelines of the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 “Common for the Society of Health”. This as a specific objective lays down the rights of as full a compulsory health insurance as possible, which is cleaned by content that does not belong to it, including the specialisation of doctors and traineeships. Therefore, through the proposal for a law, we transfer the financing of traineeships for all healthcare professionals and co-workers, as well as the specializations of doctors and doctors of dental medicine from compulsory health insurance funds to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The budget will cover the costs of traineeships and specialisations of doctors and doctors of dental medicine gradually, with a total of 23 million in this year and then 20 million in the coming years, so that in 2020 they will be fully financed from the budget. From now on, the Health Insurance Office will use these funds to ensure the rights of insured persons from compulsory health insurance or for additional health services. This means reducing waiting periods in the public health service network. By transferring those labour costs to the budget, we will also help to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the healthcare system. The aim of the bill is also to provide systematic planning of personnel, doctors in health care, in line with strategic guidelines. We redefine the competence to plan the number of doctors and doctors in dental medicine. The competent authority for medical planning will be the Ministry of Health and the Medical Chamber will approve, monitor, coordinate and ensure the quality of implementation on the basis of the Ministry's guidance. The Ministry of Health will take into account the accessibility and needs of the population when planning, so we introduce the so-called two-tier planning of doctors' specializations. This means that the number of doctors and doctors in dental medicine will be planned for the whole country, the so-called national level, and for individual health care providers. In doing so, healthcare providers will have a greater role to play as they participate in the selection process and also influence their choice. Due to the lack of physicians at primary level and to ensure the employment of young doctors who have failed to obtain specialisation, one year of training or a so-called secondary. With the introduction of the secondary programme, we allow young doctors to obtain specialisation after the traineeship and no longer be unemployed at the Employment Institute. After completion of the traineeship and the professional examination, they will remain employed for a certain period as secondary staff. When certain conditions are met, this period will also be included in the period of specialisation. The law allows a specialist to determine patients under the conditions laid down by this law in order to relieve selected physicians and to regulate the status of doctors with a professional examination. At the same time, it is possible for specialists to make it easier to move from resident to specialist status. This will also ensure a sufficient number of doctors in the regions. What does the novelty of marriage bring? It will take into account the actual needs of the population and the public interest shown. It will encourage and enable the employment of young doctors who have failed to obtain specialisation; we are improving their social situation. We relieve doctors of primary level and, due to the financial burden of the Health Insurance Institute, because education will be paid from the budget, we will allow the payment of additional health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone! Colleagues and colleagues, Ministry! The Health Committee is at its 33rd emergency session. Seven. 2017 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act, hereinafter referred to as the draft law submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its 100th session. 6. He decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee took note of the material published on the website, namely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and the comments of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. The proposal was also tabled with amendments, by the left-wing Group, by the representatives of Desus on the Committee and the SMC Group of Members. On behalf of the applicant, the introductory explanation was presented by Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc. She said that with the proposal for a law, the financing of traineeships for all health workers and co-workers and the specialisation of doctors from compulsory health insurance funds was gradually transferred to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This year at €23 million and every further year until 2020 at €20 million. The funds planned by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for this purpose will thus be intended to guarantee the rights of insured persons from compulsory health insurance or to provide additional health services. The aim of the bill is also to provide systematic planning for healthcare personnel, in line with the guidelines set out in the resolution. There are new powers to plan the number of doctors and doctors of dental medicine, as the proposal sets out the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the planning of the number of doctors. The bill also plays a greater role for healthcare professionals, as those operators for whom the specialisation will be awarded will participate in the selection procedures, which will allow them to influence the selection of candidates. A secondariat is also being reintroduced, which has also been explained. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Sam Divac, stressed that the amendments and additions to the bill raise new issues and are also related to some other laws, which requires further clarification. This also applies to the question of the definition of a public health service network, since the definition of this network constitutes a doctrinal issue of healthcare. From the point of view of the proposal, such a definition also has certain consequences for specialists. Some comments are taken into account by the amendments, while others are expected to be clarified by the proposer. A representative of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, Tomaž Horvat, said that the Commission supports the bill. The representatives of Fides, the Medical Chamber, the Association of Health Institutes of Slovenia, the Young Doctors Association of Family Medicine of Slovenia and also the Director of the Sežana Hospital have submitted their views on the bill's proposal. In the debate, the members of the committee, mainly by the opposition, were very critical of the proposal for a law that should be a comprehensive system law; not a law that resolves matters in a partial manner without taking into account the profession. Such an important law should be treated on a regular basis and not on an urgent basis. In the light of the views and views expressed at the meeting, the opposition proposed to hold a public debate on the proposal for a law. The proposal did not receive support. There was also a discussion on the situation of young doctors. The proposed measures do not improve the working conditions of young doctors; on the contrary, the dilemma arises that they will be in an even worse situation. In the discussion below, it was pointed out that the proposal for a law governs two areas and it would therefore make sense to support the articles governing health financing and to transpose the parts of the proposal relating to the amendment of the regulation of the way of specialisation into the system law. In the debate, members of the committee by the coalition rejected the evidence of irregularities in the procedure and the exclusion of the professional public. With regard to the area of specialisations and specialists and the situation in which Slovenia is located, the Committee has repeatedly discussed at regular and extraordinary meetings, and the competences for the planning of specialisations are transferred by means of a proposal for a law from the Chamber to the Ministry. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SMC Group, the other amendments were rejected and adopted and adopted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services by Emergency Procedure in order to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, as set out in the introduction to this Act. Yes, but I would say that the Ministry of Health has already made a difficult remedial impact on the functioning of the country in these three years of its work in the field of health. The Ministry launched an emergency medical assistance project, which has not yet been organised, not by staff, not by financial means; the abolition of waiting periods was carried out by the Ministry by increasing the waiting period by 30% in three years. The eTravel project has brought changes only that these changes are such that patients are now more confused and that there is even more bureaucracy. And I could count it, but let's say it's for the fall session. The fact is that the Ministry of Health in this mandate has succeeded in undermining the fundamental principle of the Constitution, which is a violation of equality before the law of patients and also doctors. The Ministry is in breach of European law by its laws, and now our legislation will be re-drived with care. Systemic changes or, if you wish, health reform, including the Medical Services Act, shall not be adopted by emergency procedure, shall not be adopted without public debate and without the participation of the profession. Reform is being done for many years and for all citizens, not only for the privileged. Even though the Government and the Ministry of Health argued that without budgetary resources it would not be possible to ensure a reduction of waiting periods, we did not receive an answer on the parental committee, but why it would then interfere with the systemic changes to this medical service law. Why does it interfere with the preparation and implementation of calls for proposals? Why is he interfering with the choice and the method of specialization itself? For example, family medicine professionals who will perform the fourth year of specialization are expected to be selected by doctors under the new law. The fact is that this is too much burden and responsibility for young doctors. These young doctors will have to do this job without a license, which is a condition for self-employed work; now understand this if you can. Young doctors are also required to be employed in the first place, regardless of their place of residence or the place of employment during specialization. This reminds us of the old times when the authorities sent teachers and doctors to the countryside by decree. But the government, the ministry and the coalition don't listen to the profession, don't listen to the young doctors, don't listen to the opposition's warnings, just to listen to the patients. The fact is that changes to this law not only affect funding but are fundamentally affecting the system of postgraduate education of young doctors and we adopt the law as a matter of urgency. The fact is, more and more young doctors are going abroad. In 2016, the Medical Chamber issued 260 certificates of good name, which is a recommendation for employers abroad, and probably did not issue them without purpose. By this law, we actually open doors to young doctors abroad or, I will say otherwise, literally blow them out of the country. These are and will be, fellow Members, long-standing and irreparable consequences for our health and our country. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thanks again for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a new Law on Medical Services is another legal proposal, with which we in our parliamentary group are again faced with a significant dilemma whether to support the law or not. In doing so, it must be absolutely clear that we are in the party Desus and will also support proposals that bring solutions and improve the Slovenian public health system. At the same time, however, we expect the Minister to be able to choose priorities so that she can present content that represents a step forward in the provision of the public health system and, above all, to prepare proposals that will not conflict with the basic professional principles that will not be contrary to the legal legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, including European legislation; and which would be opposed by the general public, which is normally excluded from the debate. In the Desus Group, we believe that amending the Medical Service Act without a properly reasoned debate, including doctors as health care providers, is simply not the right way to solve the increasingly serious problems facing Slovenian health care. Even more concerned is the opposition of young doctors, who are more and more likely to go abroad today, especially due to poor conditions, and we will still need them in the future. A complication in the adoption of the Medical Services Act is seen as completely unnecessary. At Desus, we agreed that in the face of increasing waiting times and severe financial problems that are already threatening the public health system, we would provide at least some additional health money as quickly as possible under the emergency procedure. It was also an agreement with the President of the Government, and we stuck to this agreement. We are talking about €23 million, with which we will at least partially relieve the health treasury this year and allocate them to health services. We also consider the introduction of the secondary strategy as a good solution and support it. However, as part of the coalition, it has not been agreed and it has been agreed that this bill will reach into a demanding system of specialisation tendering which, by the way, currently poses no particular problem and does not solve any of the current problems that we have in the healthcare system. The Ministry simply decided to intervene unilaterally and pushed young doctors into a precarious situation. In addition, there is a lack of adequate planning for the required number of specialist doctors and a prepared network for a secondary level at which changes are based and which the Minister has been promising and forecasting for a long time. We have therefore proposed in Desus that the issue of specialisation should be excluded from the current bill. Otherwise, we have announced the amendments that we have tabled at the Health Committee. We're sorry these amendments weren't accepted. This is how we have before us today a proposal with which it is difficult to be satisfied; however, due to the projected gradual transfer of resources for traineeships and specialisations to the state budget and thus the decommissioning of the healthcare treasury during the current severe crisis, we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u9	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the new Law on Medical Services, which raised a lot of dust from the Young Doctors and the Professional Public. More than content, however, the dust was raised according to the procedure for its treatment, i.e. that the National Assembly dealt with the law by emergency procedure. We are also concerned about this in the Group of Social Democrats, but if we want to transfer the financing of traineeships and specialisations that do not belong directly to the financing of health services from the means of compulsory health insurance to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the law must be adopted as soon as possible. As soon as possible, however, the law must also be adopted in order to ensure that the implementation of the law also means a measure and the release of compulsory health insurance of €22.9 million, which will be aimed at reducing waiting lines that we all know are flying into the sky and thereby endangering human health. Due to excessive waiting periods, there are increased risks and higher treatment costs, longer absences from work, poorer quality of life of individuals and family members, worsening of the social status of individuals, longer and more difficult rehabilitation and poorer condition of patients after treatment. The government is also aware that waiting periods in health care are one of the key problems of the Slovenian health system and one of the key problems for the functioning of the country, which directly and indirectly have health, social, economic and financial consequences for the country. However, it is not possible to reduce waiting periods in health care without additional financial resources in the health treasury or in deploring the financing from health-care funds for earmarked expenditure; that is, expenditure intended for the provision of health services, medicines and medical devices. The Law also introduces changes in the area of specialisation tendering. As the competent authority for the planning of the number of doctors, a new Ministry of Health will be designated. On the basis of the Ministry's guidance, the Chamber will publish a call for specialisations, approve specialisations, monitor, coordinate and ensure their quality of implementation. Another solution, which means human resources reinforcements, is the introduction of a secondary programme, which also improves the situation of young doctors. With the introduction of a secondary course, it is possible for young doctors, after training, to obtain the option of specialisation, not to switch to unemployment, but to remain employed for a certain period after completion of their training and professional examination as a secondary period, which is then considered to be during the period of specialisation when certain conditions are met. The fact is, young doctors need to be provided with better working conditions so that they do not leave us abroad. The current system is not functioning well, so certain changes to the system are really necessary. In our opinion, the novel brings some good solutions, since the novel contains quite a few changes that went against the comments of the Young Doctors as well as the Medical Chamber, but can never be fully taken into account. Since the law brings a number of good solutions, including optimal compromises, which are the fruit of adopted amendments, which are aimed at increasing the number of specialists and increasing the funds intended to reduce waiting periods, and a more efficient system of concessions, in anticipation of the preparation of a rapid assessment of the needs of the specialists, so that by 2025 we reach the average of the European Union 28 and, as soon as possible, in Slovenia, we will educate, train and replace specialist doctors who retire, we will support the Social Democrats in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u12	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! The Law on Medical Services, which is now being adopted in short-term procedure, is first of all nominally. There is no valid reason for us to adopt such an important law, to supplement it on committees, to form it together and to adopt it in a reduced procedure. The law governing the work and mission of doctors is one of the most important elements of health reform in nodules and should be adopted, certainly after a regular procedure. Who else shares that view? You won't believe it, the Young Doctors' Housing Organization, which the Minister is almost not involved in the dialogue. In general, dialogue and the search for compromise solutions is a weak point of the Minister and her department. And it is becoming increasingly difficult to argue and, as a result, an increasingly loud call for its withdrawal. Young doctors. Dear Minister and Coalition, tell us what these young doctors have so resented that you are fighting such a battle against them, over and over again, from marriage to marriage. This time, too, when adopting this legislation, the Young Doctors have called on us Members not to rush into an urgent process of mid-term change that does not provide adequate solutions. Of course, changes in the health system and postgraduate training are necessary, but Young Doctors call for an integrated and regular process. Dissatisfaction with working conditions, unequal situation with other employees in public health, interference with policy in the profession are just some of the reasons young doctors care. And young doctors also believe that this law is becoming part of the problem of the health system and not part of the solution, which they would expect in New Slovenia. For us Christian Democrats, in dealing with this law is only one fundamental question: Will we have more doctors and consequently better access to health services and a smaller waiting line due to the change of law? This is a key issue for us when we follow this law. And how do doctors respond to the increasingly difficult conditions of work and unemployment? To the greatest extent, they are interested in working abroad; and they also get it and also go abroad, the most qualified young people we have been training here for 10 years, and then they are better bread abroad. And after this law, the slaughter of young doctors abroad will only be greater. Let's see some statistics: we have about 400 unemployed doctors in Slovenia, but not all are registered at the Employment Institute. The number of medical expenses abroad has been increasing in recent years among young doctors and also among slightly older specialists. Over the past year, 236 doctors have been asked by the Medical Chamber for a certificate of good name to go abroad, as of this year 114 doctors. In Slovenia, according to the latest data available, the OECD averages 2.4 doctors per thousand population. If we touch on the number of family medicine specialists, the latest available data show that the average number of family medicine specialists per 100,000 inhabitants is 49.9; again, Slovenia is listed below. Ireland, which is at the top of the list, for example, has 272.5 family medicine specialists per 100,000 inhabitants. Slovenia is therefore the most lagging behind in the number of doctors. And in Novi Slovenija, we would expect the Minister to be able to deal with such a medical service law, which will be best coordinated with the stakeholders most concerned; but we have remained empty again. The two-tier system of specializations, where healthcare providers will also play a role, will not solve the shortage or departure of doctors. We therefore expect the Ministry to solve the problem of an unestablished public network for more than 25 years; but that is not the case with this law either. Christian Democrats, as has already been said, cannot be supported for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u13	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, in her name Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Like all other laws in the field of health, this has also encountered severe resistance from the Medical Chamber, Fides and associations of private doctors. And here it is not, at least not in the first place, about the professional public, as the members of the regime say, but mainly about the public concerned, about the medical lobby. What can we learn from this? We can understand that the management of these organisations is in line with the current situation. While we wait longer and longer for treatment, the profits of concessionaires and medical companies do not decline. The health system crisis beats patients and benefits those for whom healthcare is a profitable activity. On the other hand, what we are constantly reminding us of is confirmed. The political class convinces citizens that we need a health reform; it does not say that there are two reforms on the table. One is a reform to improve the public health system in order to make it accessible to all patients under the same conditions. There is something completely different about the demands of health companies and insurance companies to privatise health care and to ensure that compulsory health insurance is made available to commercial insurance companies. And this reform, supported not only by Fides, the Medical Chamber and the Insurance Association, but also by the American Chamber of Commerce of AmCham, leads to the Americanisation of Slovenian health care. We know that the American health system is the most expensive in the world, that it leaves almost 40 million people without health insurance, and that it is extremely ineffective. Such a system does not deserve our citizens and citizens. The Left will support this law in the first place because it allocates an additional €80 million to the public health system. As it is known, the payment of specialisations to the Institute of Health Insurance was definitively transferred by the first Janša government, although it was at the time of high growth. Since then, the institution has to pay all the costs of specialization with contributions paid by residents and residents for treatment. And about half a billion euros, which we have saved in this way, have been spent for other significantly less useful purposes. Thus, the law gives this money back to the public health system in the first place. The Left will also support the law because the Medical Chamber will take away the powers to plan doctoral specializations. The Chamber is increasingly changing from an expert to an interest association representing the benefits of healthcare companies and insurance companies. Examples of child heart surgery and other professional errors show that the Chamber has failed to perform its basic activities. And in any case, she is most responsible for the lack of doctors, including, say, anesthesiologists at the Maribor Clinical Center. Therefore, the planning of specialisations should be transferred to a public body which is in principle independent of stakeholders. We expect socialists from doctors only to work in Slovenia for 4-6 years in exchange for paid specialization, where citizens are not most needed. And we don't prescribe that because anyone would want to make life miserable, but to eliminate the shortage of specialists. Yes, it may happen that a doctor from Ljubljana will have to take a job on the other side of the country, say in Murska Sobota. And a group of so - called Young Doctors threatened to make doctors go abroad. Such threats are unacceptable. Someone who does not want to go to Mursko Sobota for four years after we paid him all the education, should not threaten us with moving to Germany; especially because this law will be proposed by the Left, because our amendment was adopted on the Resortive Committee, allowing doctors to replace their specialization for free or to obtain another specialisation for free. For all these reasons, we will support the law by the socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, in its name mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u16	Nice greetings to all, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the president, the minister! We will not support the law in our parliamentary group. Why? First of all, because you accept it under a procedure that is inadmissible for such a law, it is an emergency procedure. For three years, the Ministry of Health is in the hands of Minister Milojka Kolar and the largest government party. For three years, it was time for this law to be prepared so that it could be adopted in a regular, normal manner. That's the first reason. Others; because this law is not coordinated either minimally or minimally with those most affected. They're not so-called young doctors, they're young doctors. The Medical Service Act is a law for doctors and doctors. In my opinion, it is irresponsible to adopt a law that is opposed by virtually all organizations operating in the field of health. The health situation is alarming, the health situation has been deteriorating for a long time, that is a fact. But there's another fact, Minister, that you're responsible, that in time, since you've been running the department, that's three years, nothing has happened; even more, things have really deteriorated dramatically and alarmingly. The waiting types are increasing, the losses of hospitals are increasing from month to month, with more €300 million in the health system today than during the worst crisis, 2013 and 2014. 300 million euros. And with EUR 300 million, you have managed, in concrete terms, 10% and more to extend waiting lines and to increase hospital losses enormously. Countless meetings were held in this House, from the meetings of the Health Committee to the plenary sessions in this Chamber. Until yesterday or two days ago, the minister claimed that losses or lack of money were a problem for public institutions. I am glad that we are finally all on the same side now, and that we have found on the ruling side that money or the loss of hospitals is not just a problem of hospitals. I would like to remind you, however, that when you adopted the abolition of certain measures in the public sector and the warnings were given that this would worsen the health situation, the Minister at the meeting of the committee argued vehemently that the agreement with the public servants would have no consequences for the health or public institutions. Today, of course, those warnings proved to be both serious and true. We've heard many times that hospitals have done too much work or that they haven't gotten paid. It was probably not done because I believe that in our public institutions, hospitals only do what they need to do, say, treat patients, do not treat those who are healthy. And today to put a problem on the table, weighing about 160 million, and six months ago to claim that everything is all right, is the least irresponsible. It is true, however, that it is not only the Minister who is to blame for all these problems, the President of the Government and the two coalition partners, who have not yet made a clear and clear statement and who have put themselves in the position that fundamental and immediate changes are needed in health care. As I have already said, we will not support this law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u17	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, in its name Mrs Vlasta Wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u18	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new Law on Medical Services touches on the content that has long been applicable in health care to areas that need to be properly regulated. The health sector needs radical changes. Gradually, mentally and responsibly, we take appropriate solutions, of course, according to the capabilities and conditions on the ground. The law that we are considering today is an important shift in the right direction, as it brings changes in the area of specialisation planning, funding, improvement of the situation of employees in health and patients, as a result of which better care can be provided with a sufficient number of doctors. During the last period, there has been a lot of talk about two extremes — on the one hand, the lack of doctors in public health institutions; on the other hand, we have been faced with the fact that after the study, we have a negligible number of unemployed doctors. That's the law we're dealing with. We are introducing a mechanism for the employment of young unemployed doctors who for various reasons have not obtained specialisation and are usually waiting for an opportunity at the employment institution. A six-month additional training, which is included in the so-called secondary training, is being introduced after the traineeship and the professional examination. We also know that the primary level of health care in Slovenia is overloaded. With a view to decommissioning selected physicians, it is possible that family medicine specialists performing the fourth year of specialization in family medicine can already identify patients, which makes sense also for paediatric and gynaecology specialists. In this way, we can help relieve doctors of the primary level and facilitate patients' access to health care. It is known that it is the strengthening of primary health care activities that allows better treatment of patients, more time for treatment and consequently less referral to secondary level. This is a positive action for the patient and the health system. A very important part of the law is a new way of planning specialisations where the powers of individual actors in this process are newly defined. Due to the many negative effects brought by the existing system, in particular the constant shortage of specialists from specific specialities, the Ministry will be the new competent authority to plan the number of doctors. The Ministry will take into account the accessibility and accompanying needs of the population when planning, and a two-tier planning of doctors’ specializations is being introduced. The number of doctors will be planned for the country as well as for individual healthcare providers. The Chamber, which, according to the legislation in force, is planning specialisations, will lose this function. However, it will still be included in the system in a way that, based on the direction of the Ministry, will publish a call for specialisations, approve specialisations, monitor, coordinate and ensure their quality of implementation. The Chamber will also have to include a representative of this operator in the selection process in the event of an invitation to tender, enabling health operators to have an impact on the selection of personnel. Last but not least, this novel also transfers the financial resources for traineeships and specialisations provided today from the health treasury to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. By transferring the financing of traineeships and specialisations in health care to the budget, the planned means of compulsory health insurance will be intended for the purpose of ensuring the rights of insured persons from compulsory health insurance or will be allocated for additional health services; this will reduce waiting periods. According to the Financial Plan of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia for 2017, this year it is intended to finance traineeships of €22.9 million, to finance specialisations of €56.7 million, a total of €79.6 million. The transfer of funds from compulsory health insurance to the budget will be gradual. We support the proposal of the amendment to the Medical Service Act in the modern centre Party Group. We are aware that this is one of the important building blocks of fundamental change that we are adopting in this area. With this and other health legislation, we are following the objective of ensuring quality and effective health care, which must remain a priority for all of us. We believe that the health system must maintain its universality and accessibility under equal conditions for all citizens, so we want these changes to be supported as widely as possible for the benefit of patients, staff and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u19	We have thus concluded with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SMC and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since we are in the first amendment to this law, allow me to address the context with which I am dealing and to identify myself to some proposed solutions which I could not have presented a few minutes ago in my position. Why is that important? With regard to this law, a number of disinformation was placed in public by the Medical Chamber and so-called Young Doctors. If I move to specific points, the introduction of a secondariat. This has even been supported by coalition critics of this law within the government coalition. This secondary is a new form of paid doctoral training, which has not been possible so far, and the problem of the unemployment of doctors, which is the result of the current regime, is being solved. Why is he going here? The doctor does the internship and then waits for a specialty. And although he already has some knowledge, even a lot of knowledge, he can't get a job right now. And he'll be able to help you work in the E.R. and so on. The number of active physicians will be increased by this measure. Similar effects can also be expected by introducing the possibility that in the last year of specialization family medicine will perform the work of a selected doctor. This solution is a response to the severe overload of general doctors, which brings with it quite drastic consequences – primarily for doctors and doctors, and then also for patients. A recent study has shown that these doctors die significantly earlier than the general population. The result is that they cannot take enough time for patients; and here we have a wide prevalence of collapse, burnout and so on. It is right to address this problem and at least begin to resolve it if it does not resolve itself. In particular, I stress that no one will force a specialist into the work of a doctor if he does not feel able to do so; nor should anyone force patients to take a specialist as a personal physician. The consent of the mentor shall also be required. However, I expect all these guards from the Ministry to introduce the new system very carefully and that it will walk along this path. In particular, I would like to point out that the amendments have taken into account the many requirements of so-called Young Doctors. And we supported the amendments, which contain the following safeguards for young doctors, already at the committee's hearing. I'll just go through the indents. After the current law, a doctor who does not get a job in Slovenia after specialisation must reimburse part of the cost of specialisation whether he has received an offer of employment or not. According to the new report, the hospital where the doctor performed specialization must offer employment to this doctor. And if she does not do so, she must reimburse the cost of specialization herself, and the doctor is free of any further obligations. Seems like an elegant solution to me. A provision has also been added that the Medical Chamber should coordinate the work of doctors and, if possible, should be avoided in cases where a doctor should, say, move from Piran to Maribor, to the other side of the country. This rexia, however, has the advantage of public health, the needs of patients and patients over the interests of the medical community. After all, we pay 20-30 000 euros to the citizens for specialisation, not including the salary of the specialist. And if we add to this free higher education, we see that citizens for the education of doctors spend a lot of money, and, of course, we rightly expect them to carry out a medical service in Slovenia for at least some time. Therefore, a proposal by so - called Young Doctors was not adopted to allow them to work in a hospital that would not be more than 70 kilometers away from where they live. Because according to this logic, a doctor from Ljubljana would not have to accept a job at the other end of the country, say Celje, Metlika, anywhere. We would block any transition between regions, and the shortest would be the peripheral ends of Slovenia, which are already the most undernourished. We propose that more funds be earmarked for smaller hospitals and that this staff be provided with solid work apartments, so that, say, health workers can move from Ljubljana to Trbovlje, Mursko Sobota, Brežice and so on. Once again, we do not agree to the threats of medical organizations that doctors will move out of Slovenia because of this law. I don't understand how a doctor could have such a problem if he worked for four years in Murski Sobota, Brežica, anywhere on the outskirts; but instead he would have moved to Germany, England, or Argentina, wherever he was. This threat is unfair and unworthy, even because it is in the ranks of the Left that we have insisted on preserving the right to two free specialisations. To this end, we have tabled an amendment and this amendment has also been adopted at the Committee's consideration of this law. Why is this an important measure? About 10% of the specialists during the course of the specialisation find that this specific specialisation does not correspond to them for any reason, so we have allowed them to interrupt it and specialize in another specialty for free. If I pulled a parallel to our higher education, it would be like the right to re-entry or other free entry. Moreover, doctors who already have a specialty have the right to qualify for free later. Currently, such specialisations are carried out as a known contracting entity. One hospital, for example, pays for a doctor’s specialization from its market income, currently decides on another specialty market rather than on the need of patients and public interest. After the new hospital will be able to apply for a contract for contractors and if there are no better candidates, a doctor who already has one specialty will be able to be selected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u21	Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. If such a system law is already being adopted by emergency procedure, I hope that I will be allowed to discuss a little wider before the first amendment begins. Minister, in the introduction of your explanation to this law, you referred to the resolution and what laws this resolution provides for. Of course, no one would deny it. But if you accept them just like that, take one marriage in the middle, decide to accept it as a matter of urgency, and I'm fine, you don't have any caravan going on. You have also announced or listed systemic changes, i.e. systemic changes, not just financial consequences as you spoke on the committee; and the law is adopted by emergency procedure. The most funny thing was your statement in the position that this law would achieve real needs and public interest and that the law would encourage young doctors. Of course, he will encourage them to go abroad. I'm just wondering, how do you determine your actual needs, but if you don't have a public network?Oh, my God! I will also touch on the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. The position was that the health system needed radical changes. So you too are aware that there are systemic changes, but you allow them to be adopted in an urgent way, without public debate and without the participation of the profession. This seems to be some new practice in this National Assembly. Man, I'm going to say, like I said on the committee, I'm kind of tired of constantly criticizing, especially in the field of health, everything that comes into the National Assembly. Okay, well, we were kind of united in tobacco marriage, but you can't do anything else but point out or at least point out the health problems. Minister, you've been promising health reform for three years, but what you do is the fact that you do worse and make things worse. Minister, you've managed to convince the Prime Minister of what you've done. Last time, the Prime Minister of the Government replied to her colleague Godec's question that she could not list within three minutes what the Minister has done in these three years. But I think that in fifteen seconds I would have finished if I had counted it; if I had said that it was the Act on Medical Activities, against which the assessment of constitutionality runs; that it was the tobacco law and the Law on Patients' Rights, which is either way sand in the eyes, or especially for patients. Minister, in the opposition, you are constantly reminded that reform is needed, but these reforms need to be pursued gradually. First the public network, then the Health and Health Insurance Act. Here we will see how much money we need and how much we have at our disposal. Health Act. I have already mentioned the public network, and if we could still draft a law on the management and operation of public health institutions, I am sure that the health situation would improve, at least to a certain extent. But you're just making laws of your own, without public debate, without the participation of the profession: there's no such thing as sparrows chirping and nothing new. This law is adopted today by emergency procedure, when it is an emergency situation in the country, as if it were a state of war. In explanation for today's meeting, the government has written to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, as without budgetary resources to finance the traineeships of health workers it will not be possible to shorten waiting periods. I would say to prevent the severe remedial consequences, Minister, is that you withdraw immediately. Only in this way will these hard-to-repar consequences be prevented. As I said before, everything you're doing is actually making things worse. Emergency centers don't live yet. Look what happened to the joint calls. You started them in 2015 and it's not finished yet. Not to mention the eTravel project here, not to mention projects to shorten waiting periods. The fact is, the Medical Service Act is a system law. We have heard this today from your explanation and also from the views of other parliamentary groups. This is not just about transferring funding from the health treasury to the budget, it is about systemic change. In fact, it is a way of offering specialisations, to choose how the specialists will choose their area, how they will carry out specialisations. But the law should, as a basis for the invitation to tender, have a pre-established public network. This is always and everywhere, but, Minister, after three years, you haven't decided whether we have a public network or not. Last time on the Health Committee, you said we had a public network; but in the same sentence, you said it was so hard to make it so that you would ask experts from abroad. At the Ministry of Justice in the preparation of this law, the fact is, you didn't pay attention to the profession, you didn't even listen to the young doctors. For the last time, there was little shortage on the Health Committee for a representative of 400 young doctors to cry because you didn't want to hear their comments, but you said that everything was in line with the Young Doctors. The paper says that by 2020 we will need 700 or a thousand new doctors. How are we going to get them?Oh, my God! In the way you see fit in this law, you definitely don't. It is a worrying fact that during last year 260 young doctors asked for a certificate of good purpose, meaning that they were going to work abroad; and it is likely that many have also succeeded in this work abroad. It is not surprising why young doctors go abroad, where they have better conditions for education, better conditions for remuneration, of course they work on better equipment, they also have better wages. To talk about this, or to change this law, on the shoulders of young doctors, by emergency procedure, and to present that they will save Slovenia, if I say so at home, is quite funny. If this law does not prevent this difficult remedial effect on the functioning of the state and consequently do not shorten the waiting line, it is said that young doctors will not be guilty because the law will be passed, then I will ask you who will be to blame if the waiting line does not shorten. I think there's gonna be a thousand and one more reasons why that's the case. The explanation for this point also states that the basic guiding principle of the law is that the planning of doctors will be in line with the needs of the population, which would lead to better access to health services. I don't know how you plan for the needs of the people. Where's your public network? The law also provides in one of the articles that a specialist in the fourth year of specialization, for example, will work as a selected doctor on the ground. Are you aware of your responsibility to a young doctor or of the consequences for patients? I'm sure there'll be more e-travels, more directions to the specialist. We have not received an answer regarding a licence that is a condition for doing our own work; we simply ignore it and ignore it. What will happen to the circulation of these specialists and how these specialists will be paid; this remains an open question. What the young doctors think, I've already said. 400 young doctors were represented by a representative on the Health Committee, but you are deaf to their comments or, I will say, requests. When the specialist finishes his specialization in a place, he will have to take a job in another public institution in another place, but this is not about the Sobota Murko, this is not about the New Town; this is about Solčava, this is about Sveta Ana, this is about smaller places. According to the written one person can think only one thing, and it is that you will again send young doctors to a place of work in a distant place, of course we know by what principle and what criteria. On the other hand, there is nothing to worry about about what will happen to those identified patients who have been treated by a specialist as patients at the time of specialization. What's going to happen to them again? [[…]] Minister, even with regard to the specialization invitation itself. The law also stipulates that the public network, which is not; we know it is not. The law also brings news of the call for a known contractor. I find this famous artist very strange. The power of a stronger or political interest can somehow be demonstrated here, depending on how this call for proposals will be drawn up. We know that it will now be composed of representatives of the Ministry. This law is not only about financial changes, but mainly about systemic changes. And the fact is, once again, the Ministry didn't listen to Young Doctors in the first place, it didn't listen to the profession. The method of acceptance itself, as I have already said, that this law is adopted by emergency procedure, is, to say the least, absurd. There should be a public debate, an expert should be involved and this law should be adopted on a regular basis, that is definitely the case. I am almost certain that today this law will go through the procedure, but with this law we will get a law that violates the principle of equality; and a law that will bring our young doctors out of the country. He'll split them abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u23	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. We have heard many things today in our views, and the undeniable fact is that Slovenia is becoming an ageing society, we need more doctors. We were also talking about the network. This network, which exists, really needs updating, because on Friday, the minister told us clearly that the network exists, even though I am not the one to attach it to it. But an update is absolutely necessary, and I'm actually wondering where we've been for three years, because we should have done it a long time ago. It is also crucial that we do not have a health and health insurance law, that we know how much resources we have and what patients will actually get for it. There's always my basic mantra here, so I'm going to say that these are roof laws, and in fact all laws should follow that. But we do have what we have. I certainly have to agree with my predecessors that it is necessary to cooperate and talk with doctors, but I must say that on Friday, after the committee, I traced this conversation. I believe that this conversation has already been with the Ministry before, and young doctors have spoken to our group as well. We heard their comments, transferred them to the Ministry. These proposals and amendments adopted on Friday by the Committee follow these proposals. I'm afraid I can't confirm that they haven't been heard. Slovenia is far behind doctors. Where are the reasons in all this time that has just been; I think this is the principle that the Medical Chamber has planned these doctors with expertise. At this point, I am saddened by the fact that already in 2014 the biggest problem in rheumatology was, according to Part's information, the biggest problem. And if we look today at the rheumatology of the specializations; I think they forgot that the waiting period in rheumatology already, listen, in 2014, which had the shortest waiting period at the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec, was 270 days. And the longest waiting period General Hospital Novo mesto – 650 days. Where was the Medical Chamber here to call so few specializations?Oh, my God! In 2011, there were 15, and in 2012, there were 15, 2013, 36, which means that in the coming years these specialists will be on the market; in 2014 they were 13, 2015 fell to 16. I don't know where it's going. I really think it makes sense in this law, which we have before us, that the responsibility for the invitation to tender specialisations is transferred to the Ministry of Health, because this system has proved that no specialisations have simply been called upon according to the needs; that I do not mention anaesthesiology. Here, too, we follow these tables that actual specialisations have not been called for according to what we really need. We know what's going on in UKC Maribor, even in other hospitals, because surgery can't be without an anesthesiologist; and I just don't think it's going anywhere anymore. I must say below that I welcome the release from compulsory health insurance of €22.9 million already in 2017. This is certainly a positive action. I hope that these funds will also be aimed at reducing waiting periods, which are so increasing that they are simply becoming unsustainable. During the ministerial period of Marušić, these waiting periods were shrinking, so it might make sense to look at what happened at the time of his ministry, what measures had been taken. And that these measures, which were then proven positive, should be reactivated, because something will have to be done in these waiting periods, because otherwise life will end. And who's to blame? It'll be our fault that we're here. Young doctors welcome the introduction of a secondary, as this way they will not go to unemployment. We ourselves know that we need doctors, which is an indisputable fact, so this is a very smart and good measure. This law also provides young doctors with conditions for work and accessibility. It should be borne in mind that in the past young doctors have gone abroad, even today they are going abroad for better tomorrow; however, they must be provided with good working conditions and attracting them. Foreign doctors also make sense of attracting them to Slovenia and providing them with good working conditions, as we know that these doctors are already lacking at every turn. With regard to the identification of patients by specialists in the 4th and 5th years, I have some concerns myself, but young doctors have determined in this discussion that this is smart and meaningful, but it is necessary to provide sufficient professional supervision and quality to avoid any other problems. However, if you allow me to define myself before this amendment to Article 9, which we are currently dealing with and which we are talking about to delete, the appeal shall not delay the enforcement of the decision. I think this is certainly a very smart amendment, because in every administrative procedure there is a complaint that prevents the enforcement of the decision. And in these specific cases, when the specialist complained about the decision and because the complaint did not delay the decision, he did his job and then, if the complaint was substantiated, there was a break in the working relationship. It is certainly appropriate that this amendment be deleted, that until the complaint is resolved, the specialist shall not perform the work. I certainly think that this marriage is a set of compromises, not ideal, not everyone likes; but I hope that it will bring more doctors to the market and shorten waiting periods, because only all patients are expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u25	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Of course, we all want the health system in Slovenia to be as orderly as possible and to ensure that all services work well and that patients are satisfied. The fact is that waiting periods are prolonged, we have population ageing, and there are also greater needs for a sufficient number of doctors. We all find that in Slovenia, unfortunately, we do not have enough doctors per population, so we need new jobs. At the same time, we wonder why we have 400 unemployed doctors. I would very much like to believe you, Madam Minister, that this law improves the position of doctors or young doctors. On the other hand, when I listen to them, how many things they don't run, they don't know how many problems they are and how they will be; then I don't know who's right. I am even more surprised to hear that you are not open to comments by the profession and various healthcare providers. Of course, I don't work alone in this area, I'm just a patient occasionally, so I don't know all the problems. But when I listen to these people, who are working in health care, there is a lot of dissatisfaction, a lot of concern; not to talk about how you want to solve some of the problems of hospital debts simply by connecting and combining, such as Topolšica Hospital, and I don't know what your other plans are. I would like to hear from your mouth, or why you do not consult these stakeholders, if that is true, what different associations say, whether the situation of young doctors will actually improve, or whether they will actually be able to employ more, and thus also burden those doctors who are already too burdened, or whether your network will work better for the field of specialization, because here we often hear about the lack of children's doctors. I don't know exactly why the Medical Chamber didn't have enough specialties. Is it just a lack of money; or is there other interests behind it? In short, there are a number of problems that I get different answers to. In New Slovenia, we believe that such a pressing problem or such an important law should be adopted on a regular basis, renegotiated all these dilemmas, and looking for the best decisions, so we are skeptical that you are in such a hurry, while at the same time you have so many objections even from your coalition types. Why such a rush, why not obey, and will this law actually solve a number of problems? Yesterday I also heard from a medical graduate who told me that young people from Slovenia and Europe are now even specialising in Romania. I don't know how they got there or why. On the one hand, we do not have enough doctors for different areas, and on the other hand, we meet again and again doctors, for whom we have already learned from speaking and stress that they have not been trained in Slovenia, that they do not come from Slovenia, that they have come from elsewhere; but I have nothing against them if they solve problems. But this health network, a sufficiently large number of doctors, an adequate number of specialists for each area – this is really important and necessary for us to manage effectively in Slovenia. Here I would expect you to have more hearing or listening to those who work in this area; or someone is lying. You say you're consulting, they say you're not listening to them, so I really don't know where the truth is.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u27	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In opening, I must say that the amendment we are discussing will not be supported this time, nor will the following and also the law, as stated in the Group's position. As we are discussing today, or have all discussed this law very widely, and also this health system, I will use a few words to do so. First of all, I must say that I am very disappointed because I hear every day about how to look after money in the health system, that we have problems, that all institutions are already in red numbers and so gives. On the other hand, today I read in the Reporter information, which I think is very problematic, to which the coalition must also respond, namely 70-year-old Mr Dusan Keber receives, will receive by the end of this year from the Ministry of Health without a call for 20 000 euros for advice. Dear coalition, Minister, you should be here now without running away and allow yourself such a mess.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u29	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u30	Mr President, we are constantly talking about the problem of money in the healthcare system. And I ask you kindly, as president, as a member of this national assembly, we should be at least as correct as the coalition, the minister, that this is not possible to spend the taxpayer's money.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u31	Everything's fine and well, but the Ministry's presence is here. Not in this way inviting the secretary to at least go to the bathroom when she wants to. It's not up to you and I'm asking you not to discuss it this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u32	Okay, Mr President, but at this very moment when I say that the Minister gives money to someone – a man who is the President of the Red Cross of Slovenia, who is a 70-year-old – for advice of 20,000 euros; and the lady leaves this place at this very moment, I don't know if that's exactly what you said, Mr President; but okay. If that's the case, it's okay. If the coalition doesn't care how money is distributed in health care to give 20,000 euros to someone for some kind of advice, because the ministry has enough of its own staff, enough of its professional staff to stand behind these laws that it proposes. You wouldn't need people like that to consult. And if you don't care that this is how you spend your taxes, I don't know, and then there's got to be something wrong with you, I'm sorry. On the other hand, every day we hear that all health care establishments are in red numbers. It's all in red numbers, it's no longer paid to those suppliers and so on. Some suppliers will not even send the material to health care establishments or to a clinical centre anymore. If that's not an alarming question?Oh, my God! Look, 20,000 euros is a lot of money for me. If it's given to someone who doesn't deserve it, without a warrant. Up to EUR 20 000 is not required, so EUR 19 000 500 has been awarded, because there is no need for an invitation to tender because there may be a young expert in this area who can properly advise; not a 70-year-old gentleman, President of the Red Cross of Slovenia. Please. Coalition, wake up! Otherwise the Slovenian people will wake up, I tell you, I've had enough of this. And if you don't respond to it, no one, and if you do everything you can to hide such things under the rug, then there's really something wrong with you. And then Slovenians and Slovenians really can't watch this anymore. You'll see that happens to you. Please listen to what I'm saying. We're the ones responsible here. And today the Minister is here and soon there will be interpolation, and then such things must be taken into account. And such a man in such a position has nothing to sit on, surely. Because it's an irrational consumption of taxpayer money. Now let me get back to the law. All of us sitting here are aware that when we adopt any legislation in the National Assembly, we should pay particular attention to those who are most affected by the law. When we adopt, as the Ministry of Health says, that this is a systemic law when we adopt the systemic legislation in the field of health that we are talking about today, I am sure that we should think first of all about patients, then doctors, nurses, young doctors and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if this is the case, it is very important and clear to know what progress we want to make with the proposed law, what are the objectives of this law and whether these objectives in this law, as recorded, are realistic. The bill that we are talking about today, namely the Medical Service Act, is poorly prepared, inconsistent with most partners, we are talking about the Medical Chamber, the Fides Union, the Doctors' Union, the Young Doctors and so on. If that's true, I'll say the following. Medical Chamber of Slovenia on the urgent procedure: Where the law is being dealt with under an emergency procedure, the applicant shall not be required to submit any sub-legislative acts envisaged for adoption. This is why the Chamber is concerned about how the issues raised in these sub-laws will be regulated. In addition, they point out that in the event of an emergency procedure, the text of the law may be amended by oral amendments at a meeting of the National Assembly. And so on. It's just one part. Then we heard very clearly on the Health Committee last time by the representative of Fides, a doctor who said: "This law, as proposed, becomes part of the problem and not part of the solution. Further consideration of this law is unacceptable.” That's what the representative of Fides said. Respected, as wrote by the Young Doctors, they have sent to all Members and Members of Parliament, and it is only right that the entire Slovenian public hears this too. They wrote this down because I will read only one piece: “With regard to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act, on behalf of 3 000 800 young doctors from all over Slovenia we ask you to exempt from the urgent adoption process the part of the law relating to the formal conditions of specialization and employment of young doctors. Young doctors of Slovenia are an informal group that has been formed in recent months from the need to increase the activities of doctors in legislative procedures that will have a strong impact on our future. We welcome the legislator's efforts to provide more funds from the health treasury for health services. From this point of view, we understand the proposal to adopt by emergency procedure, as it provides for the earliest reduction of waiting species." Then: "In addition to financial aspects, the bill also contains formal changes to the conditions of specialisation and employment of young doctors. For the last part of the law, we believe that in its established form it will have exactly the opposite of the desired to reduce waiting species. We therefore propose that this part of the law be adopted following a regular public debate procedure, which we believe will find effective solutions. Otherwise, the conditions for the education and employment of young doctors will deteriorate. As a result, such a deficient profession will be even less attractive to young medical graduates, leading in the long term to an even smaller number of doctors in Slovenia and consequently into a longer waiting line.” Dear colleagues, do we all understand what this professional public writes?Oh, my God! They have written down and all these professional institutions claim that this law will make the situation worse in this area and increase waiting types. Is that the goal of us sitting here? Is that the goal of the coalition? And if you had listened to Desus' comments, a man who was also a minister; and some in the parliamentary groups sitting in the coalition should have heard that. And not in any way push such an unfinished, unquality and inappropriate law forward. But you obviously don't hear anything. You're going this way no matter what the professional public thinks, what coalition partners think, what the opposition thinks. You don't care. I don't know how it's possible that this is even possible for you to work like this. And I initially told you why I made two, three introductory sentences. The key objective must be to do our best for the patients. Any law that we adopt concerning one or another professional public which relates to any group that operates in this system, whether they are doctors, whether they are young doctors, or anyone else, must be adopted in such a way that these legal decisions can be implemented. Especially for those who are employed in the system and those who are on the other side, that is, patients. But it's not like that. They all say that this law will make matters worse in this area, that waiting lines will be extended because of these bad solutions that are in law. I did not particularly read what the Young Doctors wrote, but they pointed to the following areas. Just give me a second to find it. They said that the problem in this law is first the urgency of the procedure. This has also been warned that it is not consistent with other medical organisations. Forced choice of place of specialisation, all funding is transferred to the budget, the term room doctor is abolished. And in the end, they said that this marriage, as it is, is not acceptable. No European country has such a law as this proposed. And if that is not enough arguments to be heard by those who are sitting in this Chamber today and then said - Madam Minister, despite the fact that you promised us to be here with the President of the Government last year that reform laws will be introduced. That's when I warned when it was said that reform laws would be introduced by the end of the year; that there was no problem to file, but what their content would be; that is, content that is not acceptable to anyone. What kind of marriage is that?Oh, my God! What kind of reform law is that?Oh, my God! What kind of system law is that?Oh, my God! And that's exactly what's happening to us. This is what happens to us in this law, this is what happens to us in the Health Act. And we're stuck at the Ministry in those details that work relatively well right now, relatively well. Not the ones that are the key. And not in what I said today to spend taxpayers' money in the health system, such as this contract with this gentleman I spoke of earlier, for 20,000 euros. Unbelievable. I have said that I will not support this amendment for all the reasons I have just stated. I wonder if it is possible to talk about a measure that is supposed to be systemic and reformable. I don't think it's possible to talk about this. However, I say that citizens and citizens, our patients and patients, voters and voters can create their own opinions on what I have just said. And I'm sure I'm right that this marriage is not appropriate to be discussed here because it is so poorly prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u33	Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I think it is right today to say a word about what was happening on the committee when we adopted this law; and what about young doctors as well. Especially because we have or at least most of us have children. And most people care about how our children are, how our students and our young doctors are doing. I believe that no one wants to restrict or force anyone to any places where they do not want to have a job. However, some things need to be made very clear, and clean wine must also be poured out. A representative of the Young Doctors Brigita Jazbar was present on this committee and discussed it. In fact, she had the opportunity to discuss several times and to make very clear what bothered her so much about this law very concretely. She has also been invited several times, which — to be said — is not the custom at committee meetings. But the fact is, she couldn't answer any specific questions. And that no one thinks that I'm making up or that I want to be disrespectful, I'm just gonna use the tapegram and read it. President Tomaž Gantar also invited her, saying: “Look, if I could, I would just interrupt, the question was very specific – What can cause, let’s say, problems in doing the job? Leave the procedure, the procedure is our problem, and we've discussed this a lot. Tell me exactly what is where you see a problem in doing your job or in specialization calls, which is in connection with this law.« And how did the sequel follow? Brigita Jazbar says: "Our negotiation does not mean that we disagree with the procedure and adoption of this law, and I am sad that by some, the attempt of our at least constructive cooperation has turned into talking about 70 kilometers here. And one more thing, the representatives of the Health Association are not a professional public and we are not so-called Young Doctors. And now I will answer the question if you want." The magnetogram is then written in brackets – “back-to-back conversation”. She goes on to say: “I think the answer to this question – there have been a lot of questions addressed to the Young Doctors – is not only what we have not been comfortable with, the question is all the things that we have been alerting to since the law was given to the media.” And so on and so forth, completely confused. In particular, this tag is interesting in this magnetogram – “the conversation between each other in the background”. Do you know what this was all about? All those who were there, of course we know; all those who are interested, you can see it in the video of the session, which is publicly available; and for everyone else I will tell you now. The representative of the Young Doctors did not know what the proposal specifically disagreed with. And because she was headlessly involved in her own words, she approached her help no less than the president of the Slovenian Medical Chamber Zdenka Cebašek Travnik and whispered to her what she had to say. Today, I think we all know who is responsible for the call for specialization – the Medical Chamber. And we all know exactly what the results are. We all say in one voice that we have a chronic lack of specific specialties. Is the Minister responsible for this? There's a chronic shortage of doctors. And I wonder if it would be possible to create such a chronic deficit, even if we wanted it, in three years. I think we know the answer. Brigitte Jazbar, or Young Doctors of Slovenia, again, I quote, “an alarming transfer of funding for education to the state budget”. I will read just from the law: "These compulsory health insurance funds that we all pay are not intended to pay the costs of traineeships and specializations in health care, as these content are not the right of compulsory health insurance. Preparation and specialisation are an integral part of the learning and training process. Providing conditions for such education is the task of the State.” Something that is currently financed from the medical treasury, which is intended exclusively for patients and their treatment, is used for education. And that seems disturbing to the young doctors? Therefore, I cannot agree with Desus alone, who believes that we are pushing young doctors into an awkward position by means of this law. More than clearly, this meeting shows how these interesting pressures are taking place with us. This was a clear signal to me that the Medical Chamber is rephrasing its opinion to one of the interested groups, but this time to the Young Doctors, which also explains why they are so loud. Although it seems sad to me, it is true that such an act and artificially creating pressure in the public is completely disregarding and forgetting the interests of patients. Did anyone hear or perhaps mention today the speech given by the representative of Sežana Hospital at the committee meeting? Should she also have tears in her eyes to hear it?Oh, my God! Doctors of full-time specialists and even less for a shorter period or rapid replacement are generally not available on the market. Does anyone remember the information she was giving? She said that in the last six years they had 87 vacancies. 87. They've hired three. Or another case in 2014 when, according to the list of specialists who completed the specialisation during the current year, they called all 14 who were on the list; none of the jobs offered were accepted. Not one; they're offering an apartment. From 2006 onwards, their institution had no employee or circle specialist in the field that could be employed in the institution. And that is also the reality, and that is what needs to be said. We do not forget the interests of patients in the Modern Centre. We want a fair system for everyone; also for those who are not so loud, for patients, for doctors and for all those who work in health care. We therefore support the proposal and we can also argue why; unlike many who have debated today or were present at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u35	Mrs. Vlasta Wait has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. In the position of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, I have indeed stated that the health system needs radical changes and that we are gradually and responsibly coming into a series of these changes. I believe that the Medical Services Act is one of those that introduces changes to the health system. The proposal therefore covers those major changes which mainly affect long waiting periods. And what are these? Lack of financial resources in the healthcare system, poor planning and distribution of specialists, unemployment of doctors despite lack, overload of the right level and reorganisation of the implementation of specialisations. This will regulate the financing of traineeships and specialisations, where funds will be provided in the budget and not in the health treasury, since they are compulsory health insurance funds and are intended for health services. Preparation and specialisation, however, are the learning process and the educational process; therefore, this is the working relationship between the operator and the specialist, which is the interest of the State. Also in the Health and Health Insurance Act, which contains certain elements of the resolution, it is stated that human resources education is part of a health activity and not a health insurance system. The decommissioning of compulsory health insurance resources for non-contributory content will, however, increase funding for additional financing of health services and consequently shorten waiting periods. The proposal also envisages a two-tier call for specialisations; this is for the whole country and for the individual contractor, which enables the smaller hospitals in particular to reach specialists who can choose for themselves. This is also the case of the hospital mentioned earlier by a colleague of the girl. The decision to plan specialisations shall be transmitted from the Medical Chamber to the Ministry or committee in which the representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the Chamber, the Association of Health Institutions and the National Institute of Public Health are represented. However, this procedure also introduces a certain contractor, which is a public institution and where the selected specialist will also be employed. In this way, the Ministry is given a responsible role in the system of specialisations and the Chamber remains in the management and implementation of the coordination of specialisations, which it has carried out so far. The proposal also allows young doctors to be employed for a period of six months as secondary after their training and professional examination. This time will be included in the period of specialisation and it will no longer be necessary for them to wait at the Employment Institute in the absence of doctors for a call for appropriate specialisation. This will also create better conditions for further business careers and will also fill the human resources gap, which is also one of the reasons for the long waiting periods. The proposal foresees that a specialist performing the fourth year of specialization in family medicine, paediatrics and gynaecology may also be a selected personal physician; of course, on the proposal of a specialist and his mentor, who must also be physically present and provide for a permanent consultation. A new possibility is being opened for the provision of head restraints, the expansion of the programme, better service availability, incentives for young doctors to stay in a place where patients have already been identified as specialists and have arranged their own infirmary. By strengthening primary health care, primary health care is provided for better treatment of patients, easier access to health services and consequently fewer second-level referrals and shorter waiting periods. With these amendments and additions to the Medical Services Act, we follow the objective of ensuring adequate, quality, safe and equally accessible health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u37	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I would like to answer the questions raised by the honourable Member of Mrs Ludmila Novak. First of all, there are 400 unemployed doctors. I don't know where this information came from, because according to the June 2017 Employment Office, 120 doctors are on this list. Unfortunately, we don't know what the structure of these doctors is, because the institution runs the unemployed at the level of education, so we don't know if it's those who don't get the appropriate specialization, or if it's some sort of specialist. That's another thing. Let me say that 359 places of specialization have been signed this year and there are still 110 of them today, practically one third of them unoccupied. The possibility is, of course, to sign up or run. The following fact, the number of places of specialisation awarded has never been dependent or limited due to restrictive austerity measures. In the past, the ZIPRS, when the public finances were resolved, transferred this funding to the health treasury. As a result, there were fewer health services for other citizens, but there was never a problem with money, so that a sufficient number of specialisations would not be available according to the needs of the people. Why? And that's why we have the same condition as we do today. All the debaters have already noted that certain specialties, such as very problematic ones, are from rheumatologist, anesthesiology and could still be listed. In addition, this method of specialization has led to the fact that we have in Slovenia because of the wrong policy, including the wrong relationship between family medicine specialists or, if you want, doctors at the primary level and other specialists. The development and needs of health care in Europe and the world show that it is necessary to have an exact opposite relationship, the right relationship for the benefit of a large number of family medicine specialists at the primary level, as it is found that services should be brought closer to people at the local level and even to certain specialists. We have written this in our resolution as well as in the primary protection strategy. This is also an additional consequence; as you can see, family doctors have a large number of defined individuals or headgear ratios. And the consultation, the communication. I cannot accept this, because if someone communicates, negotiates, negotiates, compromises, we are at the Ministry of Health, even if we harmonise, hear, try to compromise in accordance with the strategy, with the coalition agreement. I am therefore very sad that a distorted picture is presented in the public, which I can also discard with papers or records; this also applies to a meeting with the management of the Medical Chamber at the highest level, for working meetings and for the preparation of individual articles at the technical and legal level, as well as with young doctors. I will read only one decision from the letter to the Medical Chamber in response when we exchanged the articles of the draft law. The date is 14. 4. 2017 and it says that it is 13. 4. A joint meeting was held of the Board for the Education of Doctors, the Commission for Postgraduate Training, the Accreditation Commissions, which took positions on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services and the positions we discussed at the meeting with you, and then on 10 points. I will read you item 7 – Predicted call for specializations. The decision is: We agree with the proposed national invitation to tender and the invitation to tender for a known contractor. I have to say that I personally didn't, because time didn't allow me, but my team met with the Young Doctors twice. The amendments that were then adopted on the Committee are also the result, in particular with the Young Doctors, of additional negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, as I understand that there is still an interest in the debate, I ask you to apply for it. The application shall be made. First of all, Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I'd like to have a little discussion on the subject of specialization. What we know and what is the fact is that today we have a small number of specialist doctors in the field of many activities. However, such a question is a challenging professional question and on the other hand a sufficient number of specialist doctors. It is important to know that today it is very easy to reject responsibility, whether on one side of the Medical Chamber or on the other, and to tell yourself who is more guilty and who is less. We probably won't get the right answer. That is why it has also been our view that, on the basis of the experience we have with this area and the results we have witnessed, it would be necessary to take more time and more debate to come up with a more optimal solution to the call for specialisations. The required number of doctors is influenced by many things, let us say, even “banal”. One of them must be the pay system. We know that many countries or some successful countries with good health work on a similar number of doctors as Slovenia, but are substantially otherwise rewarded, otherwise organised and otherwise working. This is one of the key things. The key issue regarding the required number of doctors is also the standards and regulations adopted by the Ministry in this mandate, signed by the Ministry; it is only the need for an additional number of specialist doctors; not a rational decision. Once again, we are talking about important, challenging issues and the right debate would then also answer how many doctors we have to train in our medical schools, taking into account demographic projections and so on. Once again, a very difficult question. On the other hand, we like to throw up the blame on one actor or another. In fact, at least in recent years, the main culprit was the lack of money, of finance, for the lack of doctors. Hospitals have always been within the limits of resource constraints and since wages, the cost of working the main cost of health care, was here the greatest control, restriction and prevention of new employment of doctors. I remember one of the former directors of the Department of Health Insurance, who said: “It’s no problem to hire and pay a doctor. The problem is that this doctor produces a lot of new costs by doing what he does.” And it was, I can say, deliberately restricting the employment of doctors because the health money was never enough. This was the main reason for all the years that we are today on the number of doctors who are insufficient in individual activities. In addition, we need to know that in Slovenia we have gone – perhaps with a similar, premature decision-making process – through two different systems of making new specialists. The first was where only contractors reported their needs, such as directors of institutions, hospitals, health homes. Here the ministry played only the role of co-conspirator – it agreed or disagreed, depending on some estimates. But you need to know that hospitals, in the desire of all the years, have not increased the number of employees, nor have they been able to hire a timely specialist, even though it was known that the next one would retire in two years; and that a new five, six years would have to be educated; not a doctor, but a specialist, we leave the medical faculty here by the side. And this system didn't work out as the best. The next one was — I don't know exactly what year it was — when more power was transferred in the network to the chamber; but it is important to know that the ministry still had an important word at the end. But we both probably did more or less work because there's no network, there's no network for a secondary level. And this network is certainly difficult to work in, because you can't plan at the level of the country of specialists in regions where you will have as many neurosurgeons employed or individual narrow specialists. But the question is difficult. And at this address, once again, it does not seem appropriate to quickly accept the solution that we have before us, which does not mean any substantial or different step in the way we call specialisations, because it will not change much. Once he's got a little more difficulty making one decision, the next time he's got another. But the key to decision-making, which has also been pointed out by the Law-Legal Service, is missing. Then why cut into this system and change it? Not to say that it does not solve these problems, which are now crucial in all of this and which we will deal with again. We need to know, on the other hand, that we already have a lot of specialists at the circulation today who will fill these gaps; and that we have also received specialists during the greatest crisis. I have here data, tables from Finance from one week ago, but also during the worst crisis, for example, in 2013 not all the cities we have called for were occupied; and not even 2014. It's been happening all the time, so it's hard to tell. We can say, on the one hand, that it could have been unevenly distributed, but say, "It's his fault, it's his fault, because we've all been working on our minds. And this should be avoided: taking people in mind through a strong director, through the great wishes of individuals, and, of course, through a system that did not allow for the proper admission of specialists to smaller hospitals. I am afraid that by not taking the time to discuss, in fact, to first come to what needs we have in a particular area, we have also tried to take into account perhaps a slightly smarter pay system than today, which is completely destimulating. Believe me, when you have five equally paid in one department, everyone's gonna want another five, because they're gonna get the same money for less work. In fact, we will have less qualified people because they will work less. I mean, the doctor is a profession where you're better than you are; even if I'm looking at the operating skills that I come from. And we're taking it one step at a time, recklessly, which is bad. And that's not the point, which then we're told is that Desus is blocking the legislation. Nonsense! However, we would like to come up with some wise suggestions if we are already addressing and opening up some questions that are not so crucial at the moment. What's the hurry?Oh, my God! Take the time to do that. And believe me, today we promise miracles, a public health system that will be all-powerful; on the other hand, we see that the existing system is falling apart in stitches and we cannot provide money for the existing system and we cannot provide money for the employment of all these doctors who are on the circle today. Therefore, at the beginning of the year, at the time of economic growth, during the higher inflows to the health cash prices of health services, they decreased. Of course they did, because the cost of work went up. And today we're hitting the side of the bell, and the money's too small, and the hospitals are going to go, I don't know where. We have pointed out that money for new jobs is simply not available for these young doctors, since the Institute for Health Insurance has the mentioned amount of money. We have not yet solved this problem; but we are talking about how we will receive and give our specials. Therefore, it seems to me that debates without the right arguments or that they do not take time only to take the following wrong steps that will beat us in health care. That's what's happening to us. Believe me, these young doctors, who are called – because they are in debt, the country has trained them; the country has also trained electrical engineers, machine engineers, lawyers, as well as the lower ones, not just doctors. But doctors are now black sheep because many choose to go abroad. It goes abroad annually, according to the latest data, about 5-6 thousand people; different profiles, different ages, because of poor conditions, not only because they are greedy but because they want something more. And our system, working in health care today, I still work less than I should or could; but the environment is not really friendly to these people, to those who are eager for knowledge and who want to work. And believe me, someone who's spent 15 years in high school and I don't know what it is, it's really not money, it's too high a price; it wants to work and wants to help. It really seems to me that at the end of the day they're trying to impose on them, I don't know what kind of responsibility, scoundrel, ties and connections, because they want to work in normal situations and want a fair relationship with themselves. That's not how it works. Therefore, once again, we have opposed the handball changes in this area, which is only logical because we have had experience in this country that we have already failed twice in the wrong direction in these 20, 25 years. That's why it's too bad to do that. If we are already doing things that, by the way, because we are doing something urgent because we are providing money – here I can congratulate the minister and the ministry, because we, the predecessors, have been trying to move the specializations back to the budget, and all the honor that she has been able to do so – but why go in and do something else that is not right and is not thought through. This is stupid and causes additional conflicts in a system that is already in trouble, where people are apathetic, where they work hard, where they do not know what to do; and then equip them with different labels. That's unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u41	Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister with the team; colleagues and colleagues and others present! We find that health care is a very difficult patient, and this law, which we have on our seats, is part of the solution for me, one step that gives the possibility that things will start to improve gradually. I would like to point out, in particular, that the urgency of the procedure, which has been so contrary to it, is really needed by the means already. If almost 80 million funds are released from the health register, this will certainly also have an impact on the possibility of shorter waiting periods, which is currently a pressing problem for us. And what is involved in education, which is certainly the cost of specialisation and traineeship, will be taken from the budget as is correct. Therefore, I believe that such a cash flow over the next few years, already this year 23 million, also means that better conditions will be for doctors, because they will certainly not be so burdensome, which is one of the very pressing problems that our doctors are particularly overburdened at the primary level. As far as specializations are concerned, we see that for some time they have been highly centralised, for some time they have been heavily decentralised, and this solution that is being offered here is essentially a combination that means a lot for smaller health institutions, smaller hospitals in the periphery, where I come from, for example, in Trbów, where for a number of years, we haven't had access to relevant specialists for almost a decade, because these specializations have been described in the region. Since the call will also take place at the level of individual operators and will even have the possibility of having an impact on the selection process of the specialist, this is indeed an added value so that smaller hospitals on the periphery can develop in accordance with their professional, business and human resources plans, for which management is also responsible. There was a lot of talk about dialogue with the professional public. On the boards we got a feeling and also from magnetograms it is clear that the dialogue is constantly running. It is true, however, that I myself find that the professional public is often referred to as a public of interest, and this is quite mixed. In particular, if I adhere to the current law, the Medical Service Act, there must have been intensive dialogue with young doctors who are somehow the most vulnerable. And, of course, it is necessary to listen to this kind of personnel, and I think that, with the amendments that we have adopted on the committee, and also those that we have before us, we have come quite across them. We know that doctors already have the obligation to stay in the region where they received the employer after their specialization has been completed. This has now been transferred to the country if there is a national invitation to tender, or to an individual contractor, where cooperation between the management and the selected specialist will take place. And what is more, the employer, this is a health service, has to offer them a job within three months of the completion of the specialization, which is, however, some stability for young doctors in terms of employment, while at the same time they can find their own employment within these three months. This means that this commitment is not what it is trying to point out; but that it is very soft, with much choice and also taking into account the needs and wishes of these young doctors, in particular with the amendment of Article 13, where it received an additional commitment to coordinate the employment of specialist doctors according to the needs of the performers and according to the permanent residence of the specialist doctor. The system really prevents the doctor from being posted from Piran or feeling obliged to take a job in Maribor. All these amendments are indeed a compromise, indeed a step against young doctors; yet there is also a commitment to remain in the public health network for a period such as the period of specialization; which is now and is a purely normal expectation. I certainly welcome the solutions in this law, and I think that through these solutions we hear the needs of patients and respond to the needs of patients, and we also hear and respond to the problem of accessibility to services in the periphery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u43	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, we are discussing something that we have been discussing for three years, not specifically about medical services, but generally about issues within health care. So I'm surprised that some people are saying that we should talk more and talk more and more and more. By when?Oh, my God! Until the election; that we won't accept anything? It doesn't work like that. It just won't work. I understand that some people want this, but it's amazing how I listen to the same story on both sides – nothing is accepted, it's too long to wait, but nothing is really debated and it's too little time and you're going too fast. These two things just don't go together. They just don't go. And those who, in all ways today, are warming up and saying that the urgency process is unnecessary because it is not in line with the stakeholders; even if there was a regular procedure, it would not be everything as interested groups want it to be, because it never is and cannot be. If you ask doctors, you should give this law to them, they should write it, and we should just confirm it. And believe me, that would just be a terrible marriage, because in the end, it would just be an interest in money. And in the end, it all ends in the word money, that's all that matters. An interesting chamber, the Medical Chamber, which we have discussed on several occasions, I must say that I am increasingly and more angry and convincing that this is the right and only step to be taken, because in fact, you know, even public authority What is public authority? [[…]] Yeah, money! The money is given to the public office. That's where it all ends. No one likes to be taken away from them, even if in some way you say that you take a word from them in addition to money; but not from them. They don't! Certainly not with this law, because they will cooperate, because they must, because they still have public authority, and not one. There was a lot of talk about young doctors. I sometimes miss that in these parliamentary debates we have on the committee, there are not those actors who are usually present as interested groups on the committee, because it looks like we are talking about people who don't have a word anymore. I'm talking about young doctors. If the doctors were pleased with the signing of an agreement with the minister on their salaries last year, if you remember when some of them jumped into a luft that they were a heavy group, we now have a problem with young doctors who are allegedly dissatisfied. I have to say that I am terribly disappointed because I invited them on the committee twice, and in the end all I hear is that they can't define what really bothers them. Otherwise I do not believe that they do not know; but they do not hope to say out loud what they really want; and they will not discuss it. Some colleagues have already discussed this before me today. I think it was Kordish, a colleague of Erika's; and they were discussing these famous 70 kilometers. It's true, it's not just a problem. The problem is something else. The problem is that they can't clear up on the board and they can't clear up in the National Assembly. The fact that their own chamber has been pulling them by their noses and promising them for years and years something that the chamber has not been able to carry out or often because it does not want to. This battle between generations has always existed between young and old. It's in the Medical Room, by the way. The young doctor who arrived had to be quiet for years and years, studying and waiting for him to become a doctor. And only when he became a doctor and was given a position, then could he have worked very actively within the decision-making circles. If we ask doctors generally in the Slovenian space, because not everyone thinks the same. We have two doctors in this National Assembly. And if you ask them, there are a lot of things that you might have every look at, and that's not bad at all, that we won't get along the wrong way. That's not bad at all. However, it is very important when we refer to these different views when adopting certain acts. Today I have heard again on several sides that we do not have a network and that we are setting something in the Medical Service Act, which we do not even know how we will then implement with a call when we determine because we do not have a network. I apologize; when you adopt the law and set something by law, but we know that the network is defined by the Ministry with an act, not by the National Assembly with a decision, it is more than clear that if you want to implement the law, the Ministry must do certain things and measures; and it must be determined. That's why I expect him to determine it. But let's ask ourselves how it works now. Do we have any designated doctors? Do we have a clearly defined so-called network that we don't want to say is a network, but it works? But we're not happy with her. That's the problem, so we're talking about the network because we want to have a network. But what we have works like a network, we just don't want to hear it; and that's the problem. Therefore, today’s talk about the adoption of the Law on Medical Services without the consent of the professional public is a problem. Speaking of cooperation, I have seen this cooperation in a very interesting way over the last three years. Cooperation. When do people say they don't cooperate with them? When their initiatives have not been adopted. And I'm not just thinking about the Ministry of Health right now, I'm talking about it in general. They say, "With this ministry, you cannot talk to this minister." But when most of their wishes are satisfied, they say, “We are pleased and have worked well together with this ministry and blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah However, we say that we have been changing and laying certain foundations for a health system that has been operating incorrectly for many years and which, legally speaking, no one has been able for 25 years, has wanted or has not been a priority for him to change. When a colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party says to me: “You yourself have acknowledged that this is also a system law, and you accept it as an emergency.” For God's sake, of course, we accept it by emergency procedure, because that's enough because we're going to lose money in the end. But it's as systemic as the systemic problem, and everything has to change. And then it goes on with the system solution. Then he pulls a law out of the middle and says, "This marriage is important, it has to be changed." You're going to tell us what order the Ministry should make to make sense for you. I know what kind of order I would make, but as a Member you know the next step. You need to be coordinated, you need to make arrangements, and you open up a lot of things so that you can close them in the end. We all know that one of the hardest marriages is still ahead of us. But without these changes that are now taking place, even the law that is financially the largest, strongest and most difficult, will not work. We're talking about the Health and Health Insurance Act. Why? Once we get all the laws together, we'll get the right number and only then can we talk about real reform. The closer we get to the end of the term, the more some know that the moment of truth is coming when we have to count and say: We accept it or we do not accept it. Then it's the end of hiding places when we talk about saying, "There has to be a change, no one hopes, let's give, let's wait, et cetera, et cetera." This is a problem of discussion where it is necessary to pour pure wine, but not only will it be clean; for if it is clean, it does not mean that it is good and good. But good and good will show time. For any marriage that's passed, we can't say that he's great right now. Only when you implement it do you begin to identify through practice. That is why we are here today in Parliament and next generation in Parliament to continue to correct this. But we have a problem with us because we haven't even fixed it for 25 years, and we haven't made any changes. In the end, what I repeat every time I remind you of where the problem is. It is not only in patients, in health care and in the fact that this is the most important thing for us. The problem is that someone wants to take advantage of the opportunity and choose the right moment to decide between two different concepts. Here comes a broader discussion of what we really want to have – whether we want to have the pure privatisation of the health system on the one hand; whether we want to have a pure public health system on the other hand; or whether we want to have a mixed model that takes into account everything that can be good in this health system, and especially in the end to the users. Today I refer to and use the words “just to be good for the patient”, I still say, regardless of what the indicators are, it is alarming, because we must not allow it, but the health system is still working. Of course it works, don't worry, colleague Brinovšek. But this is no excuse for us to stand, wait and debate for a very long time, because some would still like to debate and debate, from here to forever. There is somewhere to be cut off, to come to the National Assembly, and to say this today is to be accepted, here and here are the things that we will agree on. There are things we discuss; and there are things we will not even discuss. This is a matter of concepts and policies. Some of you don't want to understand. How to get it on a common denominator, how to make things and discussions work in the end; this is a matter of politics and governance. We all agree that changes are needed not only in the medical service, but also in the health department, in the organisation of health institutions, in concessions, in the network that everyone is desperate to talk about, and also in the source, in the money. The story didn't happen yesterday and the day before yesterday. Today, colleague Gantar discussed and mentioned a little bit about the course, what it looked like with specialties. However, I have discussed several times myself when politics in our country has decided to simply transfer funds to its health treasury; sometimes this was not the case. We used to have money somewhere else, it was budget money and it was treated like a pig with fur; and it was terrible. Every moment you make a decision when you're running out of money, it's gone somewhere. But the problem is that the health department — such as it is today — is stiff and does not perform the functions that today are reflected in the result of a poor health system. On the one hand, the bidders give such prices, on the other hand, the health treasury says that it will pay only so much and nothing more. Each service paid was poorly done, well done, or done in any way. The health department pays for all of this, and that is what needs to be changed. But in all this colossus, today we're only talking about one segment, and this is about the Health Service Act, and that's the problem, because some people don't want to understand that this is part of the system. It's all a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u45	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. What is the problem, and what is not the problem with our health system? Well, I don't think it's just the health system. After all the comparative studies and on average in view of the European Union, I believe that in Slovenia it is an old population, that we have an older population for 10 years than the European Union on average. Of course, that costs money, and that's what everybody knows. Even on previous committees, when we have dealt with the bad situation in demography and elsewhere, all of this is reflected. The health department is probably the one that is actually the last to reach the bottom or touch the ageing population. Since 2009, some rationalisation has also taken place within the healthcare system and at this time the funds have decreased by more than 22 %, which means that between 2000 and 2009, all internal reserves have been used up. Of course, internal reserves have also been used on the basis of education, specialization of doctors and also on the account of us patients who have waiting types. Nothing has changed at this time, the way the insurance has changed, the way the organisation has changed. Systems did not change by saving, and today we have real health problems. We have that the suppliers who supply medicines and all that is needed to ensure normal health care for citizens are intoxicated. They say wait until September. There's gonna be a breakdown of the medical system. And it is not the fault of some public-private health care, I am sure, because there are about 18% of concessionaires in the Slovenian health system, there may be a percentage up or down that are part of public health. We can talk about 3% of the clean individuals outside the system. And these 3% cannot undermine quality public health. If you're saying that 3% can swing 97%, then I don't know if we're talking about the same thing. I think it is also important to look at a public presentation of the January 2014 health situation where it has been pointed out that the primary level of care needs to be strengthened. And given the information that we have family doctors in Slovenia as a percentage, here is the case with Ireland, but I can say a comparison with abroad that we have 49.9 per 100,000 inhabitants; this is what Slovenia ranks in the list of all countries below. This means that he goes to one doctor 2 000 4 patients, and abroad he has a doctor 367 here was the case of Ireland. This suggests that we cannot solve something or that we have not decided to strengthen our primary level in these years. If this law intends to strengthen the primary level and by determining where and where a young specialist will go, I think we are also on the wrong path. As my colleague Gantar said, we have a lot of students who receive state scholarships, these are machine engineers, welders. Will the state determine that all welders must go to Kočevje and work in Yaskawo because there is a need for such personnel. Instead of trying to save and get close to some European average, we are going in the opposite direction and at the same time giving a signal that these young doctors should get out of the country as soon as possible, otherwise the country will have them as a bull and where they will go; and they will have no choice. Let's think about who these young doctors are. Capable young people who have dedicated themselves to the study. I often tell myself that doctors earn well. I say that each of us is given to become a doctor and well deserved. We all know the way to this profession. I think everyone has a clear path to this profession. Learning, giving up a lot of things, and getting to that profession. Everyone is given an opportunity, and we must not say, in any way, that they may be privileged. Our health system provides what we have, according to the European average, and we provide it with some 20% less doctors. Of course, Slovenia's healthcare system is 30% cheaper on the citizen's head than the average health system of the European Union, the European average. We are so much cheaper that we can hardly be cheaper. But we need to look at how to encourage young doctors to stay at home, to stay in Slovenia, even if they move to another place. We probably all have doctors in our health clinics who are from somewhere else in Slovenia, not just from our own home. I must say that many times I hear representatives of local communities looking for the opportunity, even the mayors are looking for an opportunity to strengthen the primary level and get good doctors. However, it seems to me that it is necessary to look at a small health care facility, why there are 2,000 600 patients per doctor, and 167 patients per patient. Then, too, there is something very wrong with this system for such a number of patients. This also causes waiting periods. If we want to improve the situation, it would be necessary, as has been said since the beginning, to strengthen the primary level; but not in a way that you will dictate to someone how and where he will live and where he will create his family. I think this should be more of an incentive for someone to find somewhere. And this is often conditioned by proximity or by some social environment in which we want such young doctors involved. And there's something else about the secondary level. I asked myself these days, and the last time there was a big debate on this subject – colleague of the Möderndorfer is not here – as far as IPR is concerned, what long waiting lines we have. I think it's totally inappropriate for doctors to take care of themselves and look for places to put their patients in. I think they're too many specialists and too well paid to do so; this needs to be done by the rest of the medical staff. However, it is in this area that doctors are looking for where a patient will be installed because of the problem of free capacity. I do not see that this law would provide such incentives for our health care to be on the right track. And as I have already said, we should be solving things, because suppliers don't supply drugs; and I'm really worried about what's going to happen in the fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u47	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I would like to say a sentence on what Mr Jani said. He said that networks exist and that we don't understand here that these networks exist in the health system. And I say that these networks exist, of course, but tycoon networks; and that is why we have this situation in our society. That's why this is the situation in our society because there are tycoon networks, not those that should exist. Even in the health subsystem. And that is why I ask the Minister again, and now please listen to me, Madam Minister! I ask you publicly, in front of the entire Slovenian public, and I demand that you answer that. How is it possible for the Ministry, at the time of the catastrophic financial situation in the healthcare system, to conclude a contract of unsolicited advice with a pensioner, the President of the Red Cross, Dusan Kebro, for 20,000 euros? Is this rationalisation in the health system; is this corruption in the health system? I demand that you answer this question today before the entire Slovenian public. This is where I ask you to tell me who is responsible. Who signed this contract with this gentleman? Because we know exactly what his counseling is, it takes the entire health system back to socialism and pure centralisation. And right here and in this segment we have problems. This is pointed out by all who are familiar with this problem in their profession. Now to a colleague of the girl who spoke so beautifully about 3,000 800 young doctors today. I also wrote on Twitter that young doctors should read what Mrs. Girl said about them today. So disgusting, so corrupt, so ugly and so on. That's not how you do it. They are young doctors of Slovenia and have the right to express their opinion on the Health Committee because they cannot have it here. And none of the members of the committee or Members of Parliament has the right to ask them what they think. They say there, and we're talking about it. Yet they sent on the bench of all the Members and Members the next document, which Erika the Girl holds in her hand. If this document, which they sent, had read, could not have been discussed today in the National Assembly without knowing what the problem is in this law that touches them. And now I'm going to read everything they didn't say. They said, Erika, please listen nicely: “As the most controversial changes in the law we see the following: the suspension of the possibility of re-applying to the call for specialisations for the public network; so far the current one-off exchange has allowed for an exchange in case of objective reasons. By transferring the specialisation planning from the ZZS to the Ministry of Health, they can lead the identification of the number of tendering posts, in particular for the needs of individual institutions and are not provided for by national interest. The number of seats tendered for the national invitation to tender must be appropriately determined and to a significantly greater extent than for each institution.’ It's in the armor. “Third time. Request for the employment of a young specialist in the first place of employment regardless of the place of residence and the place of employment during specialisation. Fourth time. Indeterminance of the time frame in which a young specialist should be employed in order not to be obliged to reimburse the costs of specialisation. Fifth. The commitment and financial obligation of a young specialist to work in a public network or a well-known establishment thus placing him in an unequal position with regard to an employer who does not have such an obligation. (The employer is not legally bound to hire a young specialist and has no financial obligations if he does not employ him. He is not even a young specialist committed to his job if the employer does not hire him). Six. Possibility to carry out independent activities of primary-level specialists in the last year without adequate organisational solutions and supervision of mentoring.” These are the things young doctors have warned about. Mrs Deklava, I hope that you have heard this now, to remember this and not to read some of the magnetograms that you have tried to present here before; and with this you have tried to completely throw a black dot at the Young Doctors of Slovenia. That's unacceptable. This is where you had the document. We'd read this document, not a magnetogram. People, individuals, can say things differently than what they write on paper, which is very clear. Very clear. All Members and Members of the National Assembly have received this. And they gave one comparison. Young doctors who live with their family in the town of A and who have just completed their specialization in the hospital there, do not offer any further work at this hospital, and offer it in the place B where they are also employed. Since B is located in another region of Slovenia, the doctor is charged with the cost of specialization. We live in a very normal society. I'm asking you. A young specialist has such an obligation to work in the region of his specialization, but he has no guarantee that he will also get the job of a specialist, otherwise he is being punished and has to pay back the costs. What are you guys doing?Oh, my God! Are you normal people in this House?Oh, my God! And then you say young doctors don't know what they're saying. Who's allowed that? Who has the right on behalf of 3 000 800 young doctors who are all highly educated, highly educated, and five times more than most of us who are sitting here in Parliament. And we allow ourselves to neglect them in this way, to talk them out of the nonsense I've heard here today. And once again, respected colleagues and colleagues! I'll say again what I said at the Health Committee. We are not talking here about political affiliation, we are talking about a party story; we are talking about a problem. And I want this national assembly, all those of us sitting in this national assembly, regardless of political affiliation, regardless of who is in which party, to step together and find the right solutions to make the health system better, to reduce the waiting types, to do what is necessary so that young doctors can work and not go abroad. To make doctors, young doctors, nurses, and, above all, patients happy. This is our shared task, this is our shared responsibility and no one here has the right to represent things in such a way that we share ours and ours here. That's unacceptable. I've had enough of this, and I've said it a hundred times in this National Assembly. I said it at every board meeting and I'll say it again, I'll say it a hundred times until you understand. And here it's not you and us, here we're all responsible for how things are going to go forward, but for now it has scissors and a canvas in the hands of a coalition. And colleague Jani here today talked about all the problems why there are so many problems in the health system that it is from the past. How many coalitions did he sit in? Four or how many. I was practically sitting in one and he was in four. And what did you do to those who sat in so many coalitions? That's a big question. This time I must also say about Desus and the Social Democrats what has been done. That this time Desus opposes, thank God, you have the honor of once standing up – stop, from here on out. Even though you said you wouldn't oppose the law, that's what I'm having a hard time about. So many problems, so many contradictions in the text in the debate itself, and then you say - We will not oppose the law, because there is one thing inside that must go through. What's this ruse? What is the responsibility of individual parliamentary groups within the coalition? Please, we will not take any steps forward in this way. None. That the lobbies and tycoon networks I speak of can also determine in the health system how certain things must develop; and that someone who was formerly a minister at the age of 70 advises the current minister for 20 000 euros; is this the right way, the right approach?Oh, my God! Respectable coalition, is that what we need? Are you young people sitting here, none of you capable of counseling the minister? Not one. Don't you have anyone in your family, you don't have a person in a wider circle who can advise who can make money, who looks at life differently, who isn't burdened with the socialist system and with the past? That's what I'm asking you. And once again I speak to you, and once again I emphasize, we wish to help people; but not to divide ourselves into ours and yours. We have to end this. Even the Essemians, if you're going to do this all the time, you're doing the most damage to yourself. I don't want to hear this anymore, no matter what year we're in. The fact is, people have a suitcase full of lies, a suitcase full of deception, a suitcase full of this shopping, a suitcase full of sharing on ours and yours. People want solutions. Those who wait so long and so many days for any intervention, especially patients who die before they come to a solution. And today we're talking about public health. What public health care?Oh, my God! To some public health care, I'm asking you if everyone has to pay almost anything, what kind of public health is this. Every drug you buy, you almost have to pay for it. If you want to get there in time, you'll be there in time, but you have to pay. And you're telling me about public health. Yeah, where do you live?Oh, my God! Or you're making a direct fool of me, or you're making a direct fool out of the whole Slovenian people. Don't be embarrassed, for God's sake. At least say what you think, but say, "We can do this, we cannot do this, because the uncles do not leave us behind." If we have counselors like Dushan Keber, then it makes sense where this story goes. Then it's logical that he's going to total ruin. Total failure. And I'm not going to look at it anymore, listen to it, and allow it because it's illegal, unacceptable and extremely irresponsible of everyone sitting here. There are quite a few people here who are trying and fighting to get people on hand, not to listen to the kind of nonsense that some people here say is okay and everything is great; in the end, we find that all the key professional institutions within the subsystem are opposed to the solutions that are proposed. I don't understand how you can miss this, but you're intelligent people in here, I'm sure you wouldn't be Members or Members, I'm sorry. I don't understand that you don't understand this, pure peasants, simple logic. It's best to be nothing smart, like to have no doctorate. Therefore, we have experts in specific areas to advise us to say: This is right, this is wrong. Politics, then it's up to you. I think he has to decide one way or another, at least in most ways, as experts think, if they are strictly specialized things. And the health system is one of those subsystems where we can't afford big mistakes because the system is driven to the extreme limit. To the limit. With all the measures taken in this mandate, you have destroyed everything that is possible. If it's all in red numbers, what worse can you do?Oh, my God! I've got some paperwork filed that will be presented in time, which says we're going to collapse by autumn. On the other hand, we say that it is not a problem to give money – 100 million, 200 million, 300 million, 500 million. No problem. Just where to take it? Once again, we need to borrow it at EUR 33 billion in debt and at the billions and half of the interest we are paying. Who's gonna pay for this? I ask, my dear colleagues and colleagues. It's no problem to say – we'll give and solve the problem. We'll save him in a few minutes. Then what? But where are those key strategic solutions that the ministry should have long ago brought? But it brings crumbs, which no one supports, separates our society, separates the professional public and so on. Is that it, is that what you want? You're doing this, and it's unacceptable. So, Minister, look, seams and hooves, give those who know things a chance. You do this, I'll tell you, because this is the only thing that can still be useful for the health system or system right now. And with the whole team, not just you, there's got to be 80% of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, before we proceed, allow me only to warn you as much as possible and even though we allow a relatively broad debate to only follow the framework of the agenda. I understand there's still a desire to discuss it. Mrs. Girl, do you want a replica or do you want to discuss it? Replica, Mrs. Erika Girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u50	Of course, I have to replicate because I've been mentioned so many times. My friend Pojbich, whether you didn't listen to me or you weren't accurate or probably both. I really read the magnetogram; it's just to avoid such uncontrolled outbursts, but it doesn't help you. A magnetogram is an accurate record of what's said. Accurate record. Don't wave at me. I'll read what I want. What I want is my debate, so I'm going to discuss what I think is right. I read the tape and mentioned Mrs. Brigito Jazbar. I read exactly what she said, so I don't understand what the problem is. You shape your debates like you think it's right; I'll do mine like I think it's right. When I read a magnetogram, it means I'm reading something that's been said; and nothing more and nothing less. Of course, I could also read some of the stupid things you said, but then, of course, I would read here for three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u51	Colleagues and colleagues, anyone else would like to discuss Article 9 and the amendment of the SMC and SD parliamentary groups? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I'd expect the minister to gather enough money to get up and give an answer. And here he sits here all the time, there's something going on with one or more of them, or mostly with another colleague, and he's looking at his nails, whether they're still fine or not. That's what's going on. If the camera could show it, we could see it. This means that the Ministry or the Minister has no relation to those we are discussing at this point. I don't know why you're proposing a law to be adopted by the National Assembly. Do it on the government, take some other submarital measures and work on it. However, if you come by law, then we expect a proper debate in the National Assembly, the correct answers and, above all, the responses of those to whom these discussions fly. Unfortunately, of all the dilemmas I've heard, either in my office or here directly, there are no intense responses or even a desire for anything to happen. The Minister spends half the time to show with his finger that he supports the debate of his coalition or client MP, that's all he does. That's probably not it. The one who proposes a law in the National Assembly, which he also advocates, is justified in thinking that he is an expert in this area, that he knows something about the matter that he proposes, but it is evident that more and more often, ministers come to the National Assembly and spend time dealing with various other pressures, but there is no time for answers and time remains. Many dilemmas have been said here about whether public or private or health care. We want good health, especially or exclusively good health. How this is organized is the thing that runs the system. I don't think the form, the form, what we're listening to, just didn't guarantee that this health care is good. The minister's job is to ensure that we have good health. The health care you talk about and are so cheering about, I don't know if it is an expert in good health, but organizationally, especially in the financial sector, it's not good health because it's come out that there's a whole bunch of corruption in this public system. It will be difficult for you to convince someone that, with all these findings regarding the overpayment of various materials that flow into certain accounts, to certain channels — three to five times or even multiple overpayments — it would be impossible to do good with this money. On the question of the number of operations, on the question of equipment modernisation, on the question of reducing waiting periods, rewarding doctors and so on. If these findings, which we now hear on the investigative commissions, are applied to the system, this means that about 20% of the gross money in the healthcare system is lost on so many gross contributions to the health treasury. It's so close, I don't know, something to pay for, something to invest and stuff. So if this health care works in this way, then there is no problem with any appropriate intervention, some appropriate organisation getting 100, 200, 300 million euros within the healthcare system. This is meant to increase the number of operations in all areas or the number of interventions, inspections and so on, for wages, for additional investments and so on. There's no problem. But apparently all that is being found is not moving anyone, in fact, on the contrary, increasingly insisting on this unhealthy practice, increasingly. More and more intensely these issues are being defended and probably the aim of these public health flossules is to protect the privileges of those who have usurped, set up channels and cover from these rich, high amounts deposited, I don't know, in the form of superstandard assets across different marinas or elsewhere. That, in my opinion, was the first task the Ministry should have done. The second part, which we have witnessed for 20 years or more, is the lack of doctors and other medical staff. First the dentists and so on, and the new faculty in Maribor, we continue to deal with the lack of doctors, although the import of health personnel is relatively large. I do not understand that – I have been a Member for almost 20 years – during this period has not even been able to make some kind of scheme and identify actual needs. There's always something missing, once radiologists, once anesthesiologists, once an operator, once a heart surgeon, and so on. There's always something. I think it is obvious that in this area it simply does not know or most likely does not want to make a proper scheme to meet the needs we need in this country to maintain the proper health of citizens. Also, what is happening with young doctors who have expressed their desire to change certain things certainly does not have a positive effect on our health education system. We are a rich country, if we can afford to go 300, 400 or 200 doctors abroad, we have trained them to be foreign institutions and foreign countries. We paid everything to go. And then we're dealing with whoever comes to us from somewhere else is gonna get us a license. We do this, twice work, three times work, costs enormous, and we lose our home and probably quality frame. If they get a job in a foreign health institution without a problem, they're even heads of departments, but we don't have a place for them, or those who are in certain networks are out there, then something's really wrong. If the ministry does not have any ambition, some interest in adapting this situation to their interests in order to stay here, then a special war is waged against them, it is said, everything is done just to go, then some other things will happen. More and more, it seems to me that what is happening in health care is that there are continuing problems, especially at political level, a systemic game, that people and politics are dealing with the health situation and, in fact, those who are behind – let's say, we have veins and other materials – just nice peeling, peeling, peeling and taking money out of the health system. Probably all this game that we are witnessing here today, as well as in all previous years of this mandate and before, is just a game of how to hire the public to deal with themselves, that some who are still, despite all the conclusions, privileged and untouchable, are doing these things and laundering money out of this system. It is also interesting that it is extremely difficult, as far as this specific law is concerned, to get someone who supports the law out of the SMC. In addition to these 37 Members, you do not hear a good opinion on this bill with the team in this debate. And if you take health care professional associations, just like that. So you're convincing us that this is a good thing to do. I'm asking you if that's really so good that you have to do it. Such nonsense and such proposals, which no one supports, cannot be accepted differently from political violence, and you do so. What is happening now, blackmail within the coalition, is the political violence that is happening in order for some of the bad things to be accepted, to pose new problems, new problems, and to a new and even deeper public to deal with themselves. Unfortunately, it is not the goal, Madam Minister, that anything in this healthcare system should be resolved, you have already crossed this target from the date of your appointment. Your goal is that problems open up, that problems deepen, that people and politics deal with all other things, but you are happy there on the pedestal to protect those who are the main beneficiaries of ratings, resources and so on in the health system. As for our proposal for interpolation, I must say that we have already submitted the first one too late. And the first one was justified. By what you come and what you bring further to the National Assembly, this justification only increases. If you do not go or yourself or if the interpretation is not voted out, then it will be known who supports all these bad practices that have accumulated and upgraded during this period of your life. These are the names and surnames of those who won't say anything about it, or they'll tell you about it because of, I don't know what condition the Prime Minister has made. The President of the Government also said that some things would be settled in a short time. It's been six months. Nothing happened. What you've brought down has fallen, what you're about to force across is bad, it's nothing. For such work you can only be politically protected by your partners, which recognition, praise for your work you cannot deserve. I hope that the agony in this area will no longer linger. So much for the debate, but above all I'd like to hear an answer, Minister. Your nails are pretty, we see that, but you want answers, not a manicure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u53	I'm guessing there's still an interest. I'm asking you to report to the debate. The application shall be made. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Through all the legislation that we adopt into the parliamentary procedure by the Ministry of Health, it seems, in fact, that, from those big words, "December 2016, by the end of the month, at the beginning of the year", and so on, we will be given a systematic health reform – that we are receiving legislation in the parliamentary procedure that changes only and only to say that something is changing, without serious consideration, without the fact that the legislation coming into Parliament, at least, is harmonised. Not with anyone in politics to say they came to talk to the opposition, they knocked on the door of New Slovenia, but to be coordinated at least between stakeholders and coalition partners. This is how we come into one confusing situation, because in fact, the left side of the hall refuses to support because the legislation, in this case the Medical Service Act, changes through the parliamentary procedure in the essential elements. That was the case with the amendments today. And in doing so, we get materials with more than 10 pages after almost all of the amendments to the committee itself, and there basically the legislation changes in essential elements, complements, adds, subtraction. No consistency. Therefore, this feeling that something is being done simply and simply to do something is obviously not wrong. And it seems that some Members of the ruling coalition have also received this feeling when they are doubtful about adopting amendments to this legislation, when they refuse to support it, here I am thinking in particular of Desus. There is no dialogue, Madam Minister, and that is what some have told you – do you know when? Before you start talking about starting to change legislation in December. Some have warned New Slovenia that you are a person who is not too willing to talk, even when we were talking about joining the ruling coalition, about cooperation. By that time, warnings had come that this would be impossible to deal with. That dialogue is not, unfortunately, felt – not by politicians, but by your key partners – doctors, young doctors. The ones we should bet on the most. They say you can't talk about how there's been a misalignment, the Medical Chamber is critical. They're the only ones with you in these procedures that depend on financial candy. Just you. But the key stakeholders, in particular I have here before the eyes of young doctors, are very unhappy and there are more and more – not only on the basis of this legislation that is changing today, but also other legislation, in particular the Health Act – that decide to go looking for opportunities abroad. What are our prospects when we limit the work of doctors when we don't give them the opportunity to develop their potential here? What's our future? They're fighting badly. We will be forced to have the worst, negative selection will be obtained by this mode of action if we continue to use this action. 400 unemployed doctors, as there are also many who are not registered at the Employment Institute, some more than 100 doctors have been reported at the Employment Institute. But there are many reports of the Medical Chamber of Undeclared Persons, so let us be as accurate as possible in providing this information. 400 doctors are unemployed in Slovenia and have no opportunity here. I would also like to highlight the problem of financing, of financial difficulties. Minister, look, you come to the government, you just say something, and then the next day you jump Karl Erjavec in the air and Desus, then the next day your partner in the government, the insider partner, the finance minister Vrančnik, who says, "No, we don't have this money, we won't give it." This is no longer about disharmony, but about some confusing situation when it comes to complete conceptual differences within the same, ruling party, the largest government party. I wonder how you will be preparing the changes you should have made in December, as you said and promised the coalition partners and the public, if the next day, for what you say, half the coalition slaps you. That's not how it works. Yesterday, the Finance Minister made a clear signal about the new 100 million that are needed. That's not how it's gonna work. And that's always the way it is with money. If we are going to give financial resources in health as flatly as is spoken now, this money will only be confused, thrown away, and there will be no change without structural changes, people will not feel it. Only with additional financial contributions to our health problems, in particular waiting types problems, will we not solve, but we must structurally change the whole story. To touch this marriage. In what way will the situation in the Slovenian healthcare system change, in which will patients, citizens and citizens have a better health system in one year if this law is adopted? What are better doctors gonna do? Firstly, this law prolongs the period of training of doctors. Secondly, this marriage is for more young doctors to go abroad. So, in what way do we improve the position of doctors, in which we bring the whole system closer to people? In what? Why will our health system be better based on this legislation in one year? In what ways do we reduce waiting lines? This law could also be a step toward reducing waiting lines. We could, however, have no answer to this question, not through today's debate, nor through the adoption of legislation on the home labour body, where a serious debate was launched, particularly within the coalition. In such a work, I really wonder what the next step is. In fact, you don't need the opposition after such discussions take place within the government. I wish, Madam Minister, that, given that you have the firm support of the President of the Government and that he is primarily responsible for your bad work, he will finally see that only and only change in order to say we have change – that is not necessary. There is no need to impose such laws in Parliament. And if we have talked about reform, you know, in New Slovenia we have had a different reform before our eyes, a reform within the very foundations of our health system, because there is the most sick. Just throwing money into the health system won't solve the situation. Shortening waiting lines by what you say, we need more funding, it won't solve it. Also, the e-passenger is actually very analogous, and your e-passenger, which you have to pack in the envelope and send forward. Yes, thank you for the "e-passenger" in the e-time. And once again, I stress not being an analog clock in the digital world. All over the world, we are talking about competitiveness, about healthy competition, which should be married to certain improvements. Do you think Peter Prevc would be such a good jumper if he didn't have such a strong competition? I wouldn't be. Minister, release competition in the field of health insurance and competition, competition between health service providers, what we propose in Novi Slovenija. It's too bad you don't adopt, because we're proposing things they know all over the world and we're rejecting them in Slovenia. They know them everywhere. I don't know what's so bad about being able to choose a citizen or a citizen and decide what his course of treatment will be to say, I have the opportunity to choose that insurance company that I want to choose, and that health service provider that I want to have. Here is the fundamental freedom of an individual, which, by means of this legislation that we are also adopting today, or by the legislation that you have in mind to prepare it, we basically renounce. So I would like to – unfortunately in this mandate, as it appears, not to do so, but in the next mandate, when New Slovenia leads the health department, Madam Minister, then competitiveness in the health system will be the one that changes the health system in the very foundations, and we will finally become a slightly more normal country in the health field. Also in this respect, in these summer months, in this heat – go to the clinical centre to look at the E.R., at 28.30 degrees Celsius patients are hospitalized. This is our health system, which resembles Burkina Faso more than the country in the European Union. Until these structural reforms are on the ground, our citizens and citizens will continue to be subjected to the inhuman health situation. In fact, these people are suffering.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u55	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. It is difficult, I will say, to listen to such debates, while even the developed world notes that complete privatisation does not actually lead to solutions to problems, on the contrary, it complicates them. We still have Members here who would absolutely like to sell everything to foreigners and, of course, also privatize health care. But that's not why I called. I have to say that I almost thought procedurally, but fine, because I'm the last person on the list, I said I'd apply for a debate. This is the last time a colleague from the SMC started with some gerontological starting points. Today, colleague Marijan Pojbič spoke about a 70-year-old man writing some documents. I'd like to ask that in the National Assembly we don't do this kind of fascism on an old story. I don't think this choir is worth such contempt, talking about flight. I don't think it's right. Let us leave Dr. Kebra now – although I appreciate him very much, but he is out of the discussion – but talk about age as a problem that we associate with something bad, and I would like to ask that we do not do it. I don't think it's okay to demean the elderly, but I'm personally offended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Primož Hainz. Although I have put myself in a different frame when I wanted to limit Members to the debate that is why we are here today. I'm guessing there's still interest. Replica, Mr. Marian Pojbich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must say, what Mr Hainz has just said is ridiculous. I wasn't talking about years, I was just talking about completely listening to my content, what I was going to say, but I could understand what my key thoughts were. [[…]] I don't think it's necessary to repeat them, but Mr Hainz, please, if you're listening, that this gentleman is your friend doesn't mean that this is a person who has contributed to the improvement of the situation at the Ministry of Health. I was talking about content, a complex question, but I wasn't saying that years are the years that decide who's good and who's not good. I was saying something completely different, but unfortunately you didn't understand me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u59	Okay. I think we've cleared it up. I see there's still interest in the debate. Mrs. Iva Dimic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Since we still have time in New Slovenia before the Minister can answer, I am interested in something about the liquidity of institutions. I'd like to know, Madam Minister, if you know how much he gets for an institution. I'll give you an example, a patient from the New Town District, admitted to Novo Mesto Hospital. He goes to Novo mesto, in New Town they find that they have to move this patient to Ljubljana, where he can spend a month, two months in treatment – who gets paid and what size? How does this patient monitor the money? According to my information, all payments to Novo Mesto Hospital remain. The UKC Ljubljana receives virtually nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u61	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss Article 9 and the amendment SMC and SD. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of SMC and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am also putting to the debate the last article, Article 16, and the amendment of the SMC and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I am convinced that we have probably all received the same agenda for this point, where we write a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act, and I expected that there would be a topic and a debate on solutions in this law, unfortunately many discussers in general that I am not also saying something about what the points or things relating to interpretation are. However, in order not to delay the debate, I will answer, I could also answer all these other accusations, the obvious that I am not telling the truth, but I will answer what I have already said to Mrs Ludmili Novak, and on some of the issues and questions raised with regard to the content of this law. I will repeat it again, and please, because Mr Vrtovec mentioned, I do not know where the figures 400 unemployed came from, even at meetings with the Medical Chamber, I have never been presented that if we do have, if we do have, what I do not have arguments, data and numbers, 400 unemployed doctors, I am really calling on the Member or the Chamber, if this information has a name, because I think that, if this is so, I doubt it is very disturbing. [[…]] On the other hand, we know what a huge shortage of doctors we have. We have 2.8 doctors per thousand inhabitants according to 2015 data, and the EU average is 3.6 doctors per thousand population. After that, if I have that list, I will take on what kind of specialists they are, either interns or specialists, in order to find a suitable job in this absence. I really don't want to repeat myself about the dialogue. This mode of communication, which we are conducting at the Ministry of Health, is also taking place in the way of writings, notes to be coordinated, and these dialogues were for all the proposals of laws, those just before completion, and those that were adopted or stopped in the National Assembly. I'm talking about a novel of the Health Act, a novel of the Patient Rights Act, but I also know that it proves that we're talking, we're negotiating. However, it is necessary to know that even because of the different views and concepts, it is not possible to fully harmonise all proposals, wishes, or if you also want the interests-coloured groups or privileges that exist in the system today. For me as Minister of Health, of course, the mission is to look after and do good systemic solutions for patients, for us all when we are sick and we need medical attention, and not for individual interests. That is not why I would never have taken up this role or such a difficult task after 15, 20 years when virtually no serious change in the Slovenian healthcare system was made. We can see that every day, but there will be plenty of opportunities in this assembly to prove and argue with data, numbers and more. What will this marriage bring? This specific law brings many good things. Firstly, for patients in the first place this year an additional 23 million to realize the so-called EDP for 2017, the reduction of waiting periods. By the way, I want to tell you because you all like to repeat how long the waiting periods have been extended in my mandate, I don't know if you know that no one has reported at all before my term of office for 15% of the waiting lists, and I will have the opportunity to give, so we're talking about an unrealistic increase, we're talking about that none of the ministers of the predecessors had a record or look at who didn't report the waiting lists. [[…]] So much, by the way. 23 million for shortening, where it is already working and was the first result for the first month for excessive waiting periods in certain procedures to be reduced. I must say that for this month and a half, no one has received the euro of payment, no concessionaires or doctors in the public network. That is why we need money so bloody, which has so unselectively moved from the budget in recent years to the health treasury. It is good that no one has initiated a constitutional dispute because the contribution we are paying for our health services is not for education. So this brings patients first, which is far more important. What is added to this marriage? Discharge of doctors at the primary level, family doctors. We know that we do not have enough of them, that they are overloaded, that they have a large number of defined persons, and this possibility given by the law, that in the last year of specialization they will be able to identify persons, patients, will also bring a burden here and can also bring a faster species at the primary level. And another extra effect will be what someone said. See, when someone finishes a specialist examination from the specialization of family medicine, of course, they cannot have 500 designated persons on the first day. That's the problem with the system. Perhaps this case, mentioned by Mrs Dimic, is 167, I do not know, but this is a problem and, of course, also an institution, our reward system cannot reward it. Here, however, a process will continue because it has already begun to acquire defined patients in the last year and will make it easier to achieve some minimum, including in terms of rewards. And that's a side-by-side advantage of the changes in this law. So many times a group of young doctors have been mentioned. I am surprised that this group has been mentioned relatively few times before this law was examined. And who was the first to stand up for them? In the negotiations we highlighted with the union and found that there is no appropriate way to reward and identify the specialists and after they have passed the examination of young specialists. And the difference that I inherited is that family medicine specialists are less valued than other specialists for reasons of past Fides negotiations. Is this fair to young doctors? I will not repeat that we have met, and I hope and predict that it is also a task that some, ladies and gentlemen, Members, have read the updated proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services, where they are practically fully resolved, Mr Pojbič, all those requirements that you have read as requests from young doctors. I really don't know, but I won't deal with competitiveness and others, but what this law brings are such important advantages for young doctors, for specialization, for calls, for regional hospitals – we know, the problems of the Rippers, and the problems of Ptuj, and other hospitals that can't get specialists. This is the way to be able to lead a long-term human resources policy at the national level. If the Minister of Health is already responsible for the relevant staff, of course, he must also have a few words of tools to co-create or participate in how many specialties we will call for, in particular, what will be the long-term needs of the Slovenian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u63	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this. I'm guessing yes. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. What the Minister has just said, if that were the case, then this law would go through almost practically today without discussion. Because she said that this law is now oh and even a story that is incredibly successful, and that everything that is written in this law has positive effects on practically everything. Now all these associations in the healthcare system should be more than happy after what the Minister has just said. Madam Minister, look, I really don't understand whether you don't understand and listen to us or if you're saying what you think is right and what you have to say is just to defend what you've prepared, as I say, it's crumbling. If most professional associations have warned that this is not what they want if, among other things, the gentleman who has now come to Parliament, who has also been a minister of health, that this is not good, this handiwork, what has been done, what is done. That this would result in new false steps, said Mr, who was also a minister during a period of time, and so on. And you're trying to convince us to sit here alone, being ignorant, not knowing things that we don't know what it is, even all professional associations, say, you're the only one who knows what it's about. But obviously there's a mistake in you, not in us. Because if most people think that what you're doing is wrong, it can't be the fact that you're right. If most people think that you are doing what you are doing is wrong and that the solutions you have proposed are not in the right place, they are at odds with what most experts in our society think about it. They're in a fight with that one. I can't imagine that then, in 3 or 5 minutes of your debate today, 6, 10 minutes or how many reported or 10 minutes of it all together, you've spent repeating what you've been repeating, like what the one who spins is saying, I don't know exactly what his expression is, lila or lila or whatever it is, but it's no big deal. Madam Minister, believe me, with what you are saying is that everything is oh and at all, on the other hand, you have not convinced any of us, we are convinced that this is not the case and that the solutions in this law are not perfect enough, they have not gone the right way, and they are unacceptable to many who are involved in this story. And that's what we've been trying to say all along. And if you see that you're not even supported by one of the coalition parties in these solutions, then the big question is whether it's like you've been representing this law for the last five minutes, or not. I am sure that this is not the case and that we will suffer in the long term a great deal of damage due to this inadequacy, inadequately prepared amendment of the law that we are considering today in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u65	Anyone else, colleagues? I find that no, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION FOR MEASURES TO RELEVANT THE OBJECTIVES IN THE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION BETWEEN 21. AND 22. APRIL 2017 AS RELEVANT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u66	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! For the second year in a row, Slovenian agriculture has been affected by extremely severe spring frost, which has caused the most damage in permanent crops and, in particular, has put some specialised fruit plants and vineyards in a very severe economic situation. Therefore, the Government adopted a proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production between 21 and 22 April 2017, which regulates the damage assessment procedures and the necessary measures to remedy the consequences. The measures are designed to provide for direct financial assistance to the most vulnerable agricultural holdings in fruit and wine-growing and to remove obstacles to procedures that could make it difficult to implement emergency measures. The preliminary injury assessment is 38.3 million, with a maximum of two thirds of this damage on apple plants, then on white grapes 15 %, 11 % of the damage on nuts, followed by other fruit species. We set up a working group at the Ministry immediately after the cold, and this is what I would like to stress, which was composed of internal and external experts and also representatives of all key NGOs. It has prepared and harmonised the starting points for this law, which you are considering today, honourable Members, and also some other measures that will be implemented in the context of the amendments to the Rural Development Programme and other mechanisms. It is known that resources under the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents in Agriculture cannot be obtained if it was possible to obtain State aid in the form of co-financing of the insurance premium, as is the case in the case of spring demand, and therefore a specific intervention law had to be drawn up to help those who were effectively threatened by two serious shortages. Therefore, by means of this law, we propose to allow for a derogation with regard to the time limit for lodging applications for the reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers under the law, which lays down the conditions under which these reduced and cancelled contributions are considered paid, as a second measure to ensure partial or total write-offs under agricultural land, as a third measure to allow the collection of grapes from other wine-growing areas for natural persons other than individual independent entrepreneurs, which is limited under the Wine Law, and as a new measure to enable those farms which have been most affected by the processing of fruit to obtain, in a larger proportion than is permissible, fruit from other farms in Slovenia, then financial aid under similar conditions as last year's agricultural economies, which have been most affected by the processing of fruit, and by increasing the rate of aid allocated to other holdings in Slovenia, then financial assistance under the same conditions as last year's budget for the agricultural holdings and the more so far as the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the aid granted to be allocated to be paid to the amount of EUR in respect of EUR 30 % of EUR per year. As I have already said, for the implementation of the law of up to 7 million from the 2018 budget reserve for the implementation of the previous favourable loans for turnover, and with a longer maturity and moratorium, we will be providing 180 000 from the Ministry of Agriculture funds already this year to subsidise this interest rate in the fisheries fund. We believe that all these measures are necessary in order to help these endangered farms. Let me start by saying, as I have already said, that we will also be more favourable in supporting investment through the PRP, the Rural Development Programme, for active protection against the cold, and that is why I am asking or calling on Members to support this law, as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u68	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues, friends, nice greeting! The Committee considered the bill at its 63rd urgent meeting on 5 July this year. The representative of the applicant, the State Secretary, firstly made a supplementary statement, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service, in accordance with its powers, had drawn up an opinion on the proposal for a law and made comments to a specific article. It pointed out that most of the comments were corrected by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and that additional clarifications and explanations were also made by the applicant. The bill was also addressed by the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council, which supports the bill. In doing so, the Commission is of the opinion that the proposal for a law could be put into the legislative procedure earlier and that farmers will receive aid too late. While the purpose of the law is to get the aid at about the same time as it would get the payment for the produce sold, the Commission estimates that it will be later. Above all, this is a pressing topic in the fact that many farmers have already lost their entire income for the second year and have difficulty settling their current obligations. The representative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia added to the Commission's opinion that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia supports the proposal of the law. He pointed out that 71% of fruit growers and 38% of vineyards were killed this year, which means that compared to the previous year the damage in vineyards is lower and higher in orchards. The above injury assessment does not cover damage to vegetables and agriculture. The representative of the Union of Farmers of Slovenia stressed that the union was actively involved in the drafting of the bill, with many of their proposals also being adopted and included in the text. At the same time, he pointed out that, despite some positive solutions to the bill, something remained a dilemma. In this regard, he highlighted, as an example, the co-financing of insurance premiums and stressed that for the following year, their second substantial incentive is already promising. This means that the costs of the insurance premium on the surface for insurers will increase again despite the country's projected 50% interest subsidy. The discussion expressed support for the bill's proposal and the view expressed that the proposed aid measures also constituted a certain upgrade, comparing them with measures to eliminate last year's large drought, which included the adoption of an intervention law for this purpose last year. In their view, the resolution of the draft law constitutes appropriate aid to the affected entities, which will contribute to normalising the operation and limiting the economic damage caused to the beneficiaries in April. Members of the opposition also expressed their support for the bill in principle, and the SDS Group proposed several amendments proposing, in particular, a reduction in the level of damage found on crops which could be the basis for the right to apply an individual measure, from 60 % to 50 %. In addition, they pointed out that unfortunately, in Slovenia, natural disasters in various forms are almost constant and that measures within the system law should therefore begin to be designed, both preventive and curative, but not that specific intervention laws are adopted on each natural disaster. They pointed out that in their opinion on the draft law, the Law-Legal Service also drew attention to this fact. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u69	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with the team, nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production between 21 and 22 April 2017. This year, too, Slovenian agriculture caught up in the cold at a time similar to that of last year. For this reason, we also have before us this year a proposal for an intervention law on measures to address the consequences of the April cold in agriculture, which regulates the damage assessment procedures and the necessary measures to remedy the effects of the cold. It is therefore a law in which it is difficult for anyone to vote against, as it brings quite a few measures aimed at direct financial assistance to the most affected and threatened agricultural economies. Let me briefly list some major solutions. The deadline for lodging a write-off application and reducing contributions to pension and disability insurance to 60 days following the entry into force of the law is amended. At the same time, there is also a basis for the partial or total write-off of rentals at the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry has also announced a call for favourable loans from the Slovenian Regional Development Fund for assets worth around EUR 5 million and loans from the Fund for the refinancing of existing loans amounting to around EUR 3 million. The purpose of this solution is to relieve farms of financial obligations. The next news is the revised Rural Development Programme. It is corrected by raising the basic co-financing rate of irrigation systems to 50 % and up to 70 % and 75% respectively. At the same time, we are also asked whether all farms have enough water to establish a irrigation system. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law, but at this point we wonder whether it would be time to draw up systemic legislation for such cases instead of adopting an intervention law at any time. Based on the experience of the last few years, spring cold is no longer a rare and exceptional phenomenon, so it would be good to prepare ourselves for this event with appropriate legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u71	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all also on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we will support the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production between 21 and 22 April 2017, as this intervention law introduces measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production and, in particular, to mitigate and partially eliminate the effects of the cold which have affected Slovenian agriculture unfortunately for the second year in a row and have caused much damage mainly in permanent crops. It is a fact that true fruit and winemaking has been extremely affected in these two years. Some of the measures we have put in place in the previous year are still being upgraded in this intervention law, which proves that we are trying to respond to the conditions unfortunately imposed by nature. This, as we can see, is becoming increasingly difficult as we face extreme climate change, which is very rapidly reflected in agriculture, which is still dependent on weather or climate conditions. It is right to include both tax reliefs and, of course, concrete incentives within the measures that we are responding to, so that funds can be provided for reverse assets, because many have lost the income they generate by selling and, of course, are not able to further develop and consequently stagnate their activities and the farm is threatened as such. In addition to these measures, it is a very important measure to allow for the collection of fruit for farms with complementary activities dealing with fruit production also outside the traditional area. By doing so, we are trying somehow to take advantage of all the natural possibilities we have to deal with the consequences of the cold. The fact is that due to the long process of identifying the official damage, it will be necessary to wait for the affected to receive adequate payments, and we expect that in this interim period, however, insurance companies will be able to pay damages to all those farms that have their crops and plantations covered. This will make it easier to bridge the loss of income that would otherwise have been generated at a time when either the vineyard or the orchard would have given birth, and you can transfer the products to the market. This delay in payment, since the sample will not be able to reach the market at least in such a quantity as it would otherwise have been able to mitigate insurance companies in the first phase and then, after the publication of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, payments or write-offs are also forfeited. We want these statistics published as soon as possible and to really help everyone affected in the shortest possible time. It is true, however, that, in addition to the measures envisaged in this intervention law, it will be necessary to take a more intensive approach in the future to allow to the greatest extent possible the construction of irrigation and ventilation systems, particularly where there is insufficient water, water resources and irrigation systems wherever possible. This can certainly be adapted to the new climate situation and in the future we can mitigate as drastic a fallout as we can at this moment in our farms and in agricultural enterprises dealing with fruit and wine production, so that they can even be threatened by their existence. We hope that the measures currently envisaged in this law will reach all those who need it as soon as possible, and we will therefore support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u74	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The ways and procedures for the recovery of damage following natural disasters in Slovenia are neither good nor appropriate. We are saving the situation from year to year without a long-term and well-known strategy. However, we will support the proposed law by Members of New Slovenia, because it is necessary and, given the situation throughout Slovenia, we can also say a little too late. We caution that all damage caused in the last 14 days by the storms will also have to be addressed. Members of New Slovenia talked to many farmers about how they were saving their plants. In the morning, at half an hour, some went to the orchard and to the firehouse, some farmers were smoking straw, some were smoking sawdust. It is said that they were actually awake that week night and day and were worried about how the matter would work out. From this point of view, they were very responsible. Responsible ones, because they know what it means to lose such produce, are, of course, followed by a fall in income. It is important to point out that some have suffered a loss of production since the second year this year, which simply means that they have not been on the market for the second year and consequently the loss is even greater. The state must assess and take account of this damage, so the Ministry must do everything in its power to enable these farmers to survive. The Ministry and the Government also have many opportunities to help these people. At a meeting of the Committee, where we were familiar with the consequences of this natural disaster, in Novi Slovenija we proposed that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food through the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development allow affected farmers to change their subsidy applications by planting vegetables on certain GERCs which were intended for green grassland. However, due to the late planting of vegetables and the resulting unattainable seed of certain species of vegetables, they should be allowed to communicate without penalty by 30 June 2016 a variety of herbivores for individual GErks. We have also proposed to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and to the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development that in the COPOP measure for the permanent crops affected, which have been declared for renewal in the coming year, they should be allowed to start again in this year due to a two-year delay. Both decisions were adopted at the time, and I hope that the Ministry has taken an immediate approach to their enforcement and that today we may also be aware of what has been done in this area. In the hope that the Ministry will listen to the affected and they will be able to make the most of their assistance, we will, as I said, support the proposal of the New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. For the second year in a row in the National Assembly, we have adopted a law to remedy the effects of the cold and is practically identical to the one we adopted last year. It repeats the whole paragraphs, the articles, but there is nothing strange about it, because it was virtually identical to the cold itself and almost even the date of the cold. April colds, last year, this year and likely to continue in the coming years are the result of climate change. The Socialists have already drawn attention to the fact that we do not have policies to adapt to climate change in Slovenia. We don't have it in agriculture and we don't have it anywhere else. After the last amendment to the Agriculture Act, we do, though, because the Government added a new Article 28a entitled Adapting to climate change and mitigating the consequences of climate change, but this article is empty. All it contains is the legal basis for the collection and processing of the data necessary for the assessment of greenhouse gas emissions for the preparation and accounting of data and reports to be sent to the European Commission in this regard. There is no adaptation and no mitigation of the effects of climate change. The Act of Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Freezing in Agricultural Production between 21 and 22 April 2017 will be supported in Levica, but it should be added that the title of the Law is slightly misleading, since this law will not eliminate the effects of the cold. The crop is lost and we can adopt whatever law we want here, we can go change the constitution, and the cherries, apples, grapes and everything else that's left behind will not grow back. Nor will the law magically enthrall the unitary loss of the honey supply we suffered this year because of this cold. This marriage just makes sure that farmers don't fail, which is fine. What is not so well, however, is whether this law actually achieves the objective of preserving, promoting and protecting farmers. Last year's law on the removal of the effects of the cold was also adopted by emergency procedure. On 1 July, he arrived at the National Assembly, two weeks later, on 14 July, he was adopted, in the Official Journal of 29 July, bam, and entered into force on the following day. But then the government took half a year and only published on 26 January this year a programme to remedy the effects of the cold, and only then could the procedure for lodging aid applications be initiated, which lasted until the end of February. It was practically only when it was new, not to say seasonal frost struck farmers, that the first of these farmers started to receive aid for the so-called removal of the effects of last year's frost. This year's law also lays out the same hands. We hope in Levica that this year such a delay will not occur in the publication of a programme for the abolition and adoption of claims for damages and the issuance of decisions. 6 months is the deadline, all of which can be done within two months without problem, decisions may be issued by the end of the year. We also expect that this second consecutive cold will now shake and wake up the Government, which does nothing or vice versa in the fight against climate change, even proposes lignite combustion subsidies and is working at European level towards such greenhouse gas emission reduction targets by 2030, which we have achieved three years ago. Climate change is no longer a theoretical concept that could be discussed indefinitely. They're here. Extreme weather events, colds, droughts, powers, flow and so forth, all of this will be increasingly common. We need a law to remedy the effects of this year's cold, and that is why the Socialists will also support it. But we also need a policy of adaptation to climate change, and most importantly, we need a policy to combat climate change or a policy to abandon fossil fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u78	Dear President, Secretary of State with a team, dear Members and Members, all together a very nice greeting! In the group of unrelated Members, we believe that this intervention law is necessary and useful. This has already been demonstrated in the law of last year and in its effects. Let us hope that the effects of this law, which we are considering today, will be even better. This means that the support is increasing and that the injured, the farmers suffering from the cold will receive funds in advance, in time, and will be able to help to harm each other in harming financial flows. This means covering all obligations. However, when we studied the material, we found that everything was not as we could have imagined. Above all, I see a problem in renting because the fund has already set up accounts, while support will be available when it is available, that is true much later. And this is where uncoordinated financial flows come in. Nevertheless, we believe that it is essential for agriculture to activate the set of these 6 measures as quickly as possible, clearly in accordance with all the requirements, for the European Commission to ensure that farmers can receive State aid. However, I would like to point out another very important thing in this law, which does not concern financial support, but allows farmers to maintain market position on the market. This is a particularly important fact for wine-growing, because we can imagine that if the agricultural economy loses its production in two years in a row, it loses its production, even if it cannot replace it in material form, its market position and the market as well, and then returns are extremely difficult. On the one hand, as I have said, it is extremely important to approach the consequences of negative changes in this way and, on the other hand, we call on the Government and all those responsible to consider also the design of systemic measures to actively protect against these negative changes, i.e. from cold, drought, storms, torrents, these are quite something. We have already heard that the Ministry is preparing certain measures, but, as I have noticed, it is preparing only financial incentives for investment. This is fine, but I would like to point out that, above all, the negative consequences cannot be protected, especially the defence against the tide. This is a more difficult thing and we expect the Ministry to prepare appropriate measures, it is likely that public defence services will also have to be organised against the tide, and it is active because we see that Austria is extremely efficient in this area, and it happens that when they protect their area, these clouds move to Slovenian territory and then the worst happens here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dear secretary with co-workers, colleague and colleague, hello! Today, after an emergency procedure, we are considering a proposal for an intervention law on measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production between 21 and 22 April 2017, which sets out measures to address the consequences of the second emergency in agriculture for the last two years. And as we've found, after 60 years, there's actually been such a bad cold. The calculation of the damage in total agricultural production will not be possible until harvesting. The measures introduced by the Government by the proposal for a law are intended only for farmers who have suffered damage to crops in fruit and wine growing and cannot apply aid in accordance with the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents on Damages co-financed by the Insurance Premium. In order to exist, these farms need to be assisted and provided with the immediate adoption of the intervention law with the necessary financial resources or grants and other measures. The law regulates damage assessment procedures and emergency measures to remedy the effects of the cold which have affected agriculture for the second year in a row and caused the most damage in permanent crops. The law lays down the basic measures which are essentially from last year's intervention law and complement the collection of fruit from other farms and the subsidisation of the interest rate on loans from the Slovenian Regional Development Fund. Farmers producing fruit in the framework of complementary activities and producing less fruit this year, because the frost has damaged at least 60% of fruit growers, will be able to harvest fruit from other farms. According to the current regulation, at least half of the fruit from their own production and half of the fruit from their own production could have been purchased, with intervention law more than 50% of the fruit will be available. Thus, affected fruit growers and vineyard growers will also receive liquidity funds for the supply of crops, fruits and vineyards. The Ministry of Agriculture announces a call for favourable loans from the Slovenian Regional Development Fund for turnover, which will be available around €5 million, and loans from the Fund for the refinancing of existing loans, which will be awarded around €3 million. The Ministry must provide €180,000 to co-finance these loans this year. In the SMC Group, we would like to point out that the measures have been designed so that they can be transformed into provisions within the framework of the intervention law, but also within the existing programmes or regulations of the Ministry responsible for agriculture. In this regard, it is worth mentioning the measure in the form of loans from the Slovenian Regional Development Fund for the reprogramming of beneficiaries' financial liabilities of around EUR 3 million. The Rural Development Programme will also be amended by raising the basic co-financing rate of irrigation systems to 50 %, up to a maximum of 70 % and 75%, respectively. A special invitation to tender for climate change will also be issued, without a special mechanism of 15 million euros. In the future, the country is expected to co-finance half of the insurance premiums for all permanent plants, including orchards, vineyards, hops and olive groves. However, it is worth expressing the satisfaction that the single non-refundable financial aid for the most affected farms will be almost once higher than last year, namely €7 million from the 2018 budget reserve and €3 million in 2016. In order to improve the accuracy of the injury assessment, this year the flat-rate model from last year will be complemented by an individual declaration of damage, which is of paramount importance. Farmers will thus receive a pre-filled form with an assessment of the damage that they can either confirm or amend or supplement. The signed form will be counted as damage. In cases where individual evaluations differ significantly from those observed, the Regional Commissions will verify the reality of the assessments through field inspections. Also on the basis of the SMC Group's calls, the competent department has agreed with the Protection and Rescue Authority for solutions that are not otherwise required by law but allow for a more individual approach. Farmers, together with the advisory service, will invest in their assessment of the damage; they will not participate in the assessment of the damage in the previous law or in the farmer’s system. However, the management will modelly determine the amount of damage. In the event of non-conformity or other notification of damage by a farmer, the Regional Damage Assessment Commissions will carry out only field inspections. The aim of this law is therefore to ensure the existence of affected agricultural economies and to provide them with the urgently needed financial resources by the immediate adoption of the intervention law, which will, in part, mitigate the loss of income for the second year in a row due to the damage caused. Since the measures are designed so that direct financial assistance will be granted only to the most affected and threatened agricultural economies for fruit and wine production damage, we will support the proposal for a law in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u82	Vice President, thank you for your word. Once again, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Over the past few years, we have two pillars in agriculture: the natural disasters that we know to be a negative phenomenon and the Minister of Mags. Dejana jedan, whom we are increasingly convinced in the SDS Group that he is also part of this negative quota. As we say, we have natural disasters. If we only remember the last few years, for example, in the parliamentary group, we have been alerting us from scratch that there is an urgent need to prepare systemic solutions in this area, i.e. in the fight against natural disasters, and we are getting almost the same copy-paste law, which is the intervention law, due to these natural disasters for the second year. In short, instead of seriously preparing systemic solutions, we have copy-paste partial solutions. In the SDS Group we warned last year about the cold and we also warned in this year's cold that something must be changed. Otherwise, the law solves certain matters, but in our opinion, it is still too small. Not even when we're aware of what the farmers were alerting us to after last year's frost. Late payments, too many records, who are the recipients of this aid, the question of rents and, of course, the issue of damage assessment, where sometimes the municipal and state commissions have completely different estimates of damage to insurance companies. Of course, we will support the law in the SDS Group, although in our opinion we have proposed good proposals for amendments that are a little bit more in the future, but we believe that the law is only a measure of minor value, which unfortunately will reach the Slovenian farmer in May 2018, that is, one month before the elections, when Dejan Židan boasts how the agricultural ministry saves farmers. But on the other hand, if we see that neither the department nor the agency can solve everything in their field before nine or ten months, so the law says, despite the fact that it is almost a copy-paste version of the law, then we all have one big problem together. In our view, the timeline is a key issue of this law. I'm sure you agree with those who do, twice. Under the law, the minister will take half a year to publish in the Official Journal and invite all those who were hurt by the cold at the end of April so that they can apply, and then the agency will take up an abnormal amount of time and review all of this. In doing so, we are once again concerned that the records will be the same problem as last year and that the problems of bad practices from last year's intervention law will follow us this year. From this point in the SDS Group, we ask the SDS Department whether they hold information that, after last year's frost, Austrian farmers facing the same cold received within three months the compensation, what they received from them, and if they did so, whether they were contrary to European directives and regulations. Because it was European legislation that was the main argument of the Ministry of Field Affairs, why the Government cannot pay compensation for the general budget reserve this year. And this same government has written in the draft of this law that if the budget reserve is available during the current year, the government will provide funds. But then there was a lot of talk in the debate about European measures, European affairs and how to pay off too quickly even the impact of Slovenian farmers. So we expect very serious answers in the discussion below, why the Austrians can get and the Slovenians can't. Last but not least, after each cold, we called an urgent meeting in the SDS Group on this subject, but only at this year's January we proposed 13 conclusions, or 8 conclusions were adopted in such or otherwise. We expect that measures such as combustion in case of cold, rescue, irrigation, flow nets, insurance premiums and deductible franchises and counter-prevention protection will be, and we have probably forgotten something else, as soon as possible, on the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. As the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 13, 17 and 19 under number 1 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 13, 17, 19, and the amendments of the SDS Group to this Article. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Franz Jursha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u84	Vice President, thank you for your word. I welcome the Secretary of State with my coworkers! At the outset, I would like to say that I will support this law, the whole parliamentary group, we have already said this in our position. Agricultural production is specific. We all know that. There is no roof above this factory hall to protect production. It's just a roof or something. And of course, this sky showed its teeth on April 21st and 22nd this year. With these consequences, we are also adopting an intervention law, which we adopted last year, and in the light of climate change, I am convinced that this matter should be addressed systematically. Grapes and fruit production are even more specific than other products, such as agricultural production. All measures taken in normal summer by growers, fruit growers, farmers, when there is no natural disaster, must also be carried out in the event of a natural accident. Not only that, but additional measures. Even if there are no products without fruits, production is also significantly more expensive. I think it's right for the state to react in such a case. As I mentioned earlier, I am not satisfied with her intervention with the intervention law. Listen, no government has ever dealt with this matter in such a way that it will be resolved systematically. I remember, at the time of a government in the past, as a municipal official, I was involved in the drafting of a draft law where this should be regulated. If I recall correctly, there was a lady sitting at the office of the Minister for Agriculture, but we know who she belonged to, and she was trying at the moment to make matters right, but unfortunately they were not then and never later. I therefore appeal in some way that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food actually settles this issue in such a way that in the future we have such a system and a systemic solution that it applies to any natural disaster that will take place in the field of agriculture. It is right that affected farmers, those who have their surfaces secured, receive a higher percentage of damage than those who do not. In fact, we are encouraging co-financing of insurance premiums through state measures, but I have something to tell you from history in this regard as well. That year, I do not know, after two thousand, I was in the local community or in the municipality in this area employed, and I remember that among the first to introduce co-financing then allowed at local level, and we gave 40% to co-financing insurance premiums. But we did negotiate with the insurance company that she would give half of it a discount. So farmers, let's say farmers, growers, growers, growers, actually paid only 40%. Then we made some taboo in this country, and we said that the country should also finance or co-finance it. And it's true, the state has approached, but do you know what happened? With the share with which the country joined, automatic commercial insurance companies raised premiums and farmers continued to pay as much as they did when the country was not present. That's what I can say, and don't fly this now, ladies, on you, because you weren't sitting in your chairs at the Ministry of Agriculture, and I can't tell you that, but the country, I said that back then, was a very bad negotiator. It did not negotiate as successfully as the local communities did.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you, Vice President. Perhaps for starters, all that is negative or to be resolved, of course, is not only flying to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but in similar discussions we would urgently need more substantive responses, especially from the Ministry of Finance, because they are usually those who turn or refuse to open a scrotum and, last but not least, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, because natural disasters are a phenomenon that falls under their measures following systematisation. Now, if you'll excuse me, a few sentences about the amendments that we have drafted in the SDS Group on the Committee and most of them, as far as possible, have also been repeated for today's session. As has already been said, where possible and where the Government has somehow remembered, and has not explained exactly why, the level of threat is 60% of the limit that will, in an ugly way, intersect who is entitled and who is not, we have proposed a healthy solution, and that is, who is more than 50%. We know who's over 50% is above some average, so in this area, above the level of risk over half. The second thing we decided for 50% was the cases we had at one of the previous emergency meetings of the Agriculture Committee, when farmers were either assembled in the Farmers' Union or in certain local areas, to say what was happening in practice when they were not only confused in the end, but they asked how this was possible. When the municipal commissions assessed them differently, when the state commission assessed them differently, and they were most positively surprised because they did not expect insurance companies to give the biggest estimate of the risk or the impact on the cold. Thus, we had the case of a catastrophe congregation or a stream dividing the same farmer, but it belonged to one or another congregation, and it also had a slightly more than 20 percent at a level of some ten - metre otherwise estimated level of threat or injury. That is why we have proposed that, for all measures where this limit is 60%, the health-aware limit should be reduced to 50%, because you believe that even if there are perhaps only a dozen of those who have lost more than 50% of their cold, there is likely to be a number of thanks to the entire assembly, which is called the National Assembly, where we have been so attentive and able to do so. The next thing that touches the amendments is, in our opinion, given the fact that there is almost a copy-paste of the bill as it was last year – which was a little malice, it would probably have been assessed at the FDV, except for two additional measures, as plagiarism, but in this case – it is good that at least this came to the National Assembly, that we did not wait. However, we were disturbed by certain time tasks, such as Article 19, where we are also talking about the amendment. In the current text of the Act, I quote: “Minister responsible for agriculture, within six months of the entry into force of this Act, publishes a notice in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia of the date of application.” 6 months after its entry into force, it will be applied as already written here, the day following its publication in the Official Journal, so if this week is adopted, next week, 20 July, plus 6 months, August, September, October, November, December, January. On 20 January, the Minister will bless, be able to issue a notice of the date on which the application was initiated. Why not before? Why wouldn't I? Because, in our opinion, if the deadline of one month is not variable for you, in which the minister could publish this date, then the agency would be forced to do so first and have people at least on paper by the time of at least a new year, respected by John Novak, the minister has published in the Official Journal, the agency has decided, as soon as possible you have so much compensation and so much compensation. But no. First the Minister for 6 months and then the eighth paragraph of Article 19, I quote: “The Agency shall decide on the applications. The deadline for issuing decisions shall be 6 months from the deadline for lodging the application." Eventually – I know that the Minister will do this sooner because, according to the latest information, elections should be held if they are not regular, unless someone from the coalition jumps into the arms of the next government on 3 June – people could know by 20 July 2018 how much they will get. And when we are just talking about this timeline, which, in our opinion, is completely too long, let me remind you of what the coalition or the Government has written in the text of the law, I quote: “The objectives of the law are to help beneficiaries as soon as possible, to normalize the operation and to limit the economic damage caused to the beneficiaries by the cold.” Why, then, if the ministry is already calling, oh, Europe will not let us take the money out of the Slovenian budget reserve first, is it not so that people know at least how much they will get and how? Moreover, what was also our intention to propose at the meeting of the Committee of the Amendment, which was rejected and which we were unable to supplement today because of the business arrangements, is what the Government wrote: “If the programme to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture is adopted in the year of damage” in 2017, we “provided funds for this financial year to implement the measures to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture under the state budget reserve funds. For the individual occurrence of damage in agriculture for which the Government has decided to use the means to remedy its consequences in September or later, funds shall be provided for the implementation of the measures in the financial year following the year in which the damage occurred.” Then that the SDS Group did not grow, we admit, on our lawn, but it grew on our lawn based on information from farmers who warned us that someone quickly did, twice that – then Europe was the one who did not allow it. Therefore, once again, Madam Secretary of State, I really hope that you will state which directive or which European regulation prevents us from doing so. And if that prevents us, why was it possible to pay this in Austria last year? And if you know what sanctions the Austrian farmers suffered? We said okay, because probably if the European Union says illegal state aid, you usually get a yellow card or a reminder from the European institutions. Here it was said no, they'll take the farmers right away. So I'm really interested in how much there is in this area. Now, Vice-President, I hope you will allow two more general sentences on these systemic and partial or intervention solutions. I must say that I have received in the last few days, as well as following today's ARSO forecast, what will happen, questions whether we can expect any intervention law to remedy the effects of the current tide, which in a few days has engulfed, many more where 80 % or 100 % of the crops in orchards, gardens and also for us mammals are known and very desirable and very well grown vineyards. Can they expect an intervention law here as well? There were even suggestions that I should convene another meeting by the end of the week, but I felt sorry for you because I really hope that this debate will be more than enough a reminder as soon as possible, not just your ministry, a respected secretary of state, not to make a mistake, but in cooperation with the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Finance and perhaps with the Minister of Defence, do something to prepare or a system-wide law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters or maybe some other law that will cover this systemic resolution. Because it's probably an anti-flight solution under the Secretary of Defense's domain. From this place, I ask, why did Slovenia run out of a system called successful counter-protection? And if the answer is once again that there was a government of Janša, fine, then let us all take one step together and take immediate action. Not that the locals or the citizens of my congregation are asking me why there is no longer the opposite protection that has been successful in Lysca. And is it true that because the Austrians have successful counterclockwise protection, these storm clouds break down and then merge on the southern side of the Alps? And the last thing about insurance and non-insurance premiums. This law has made some progress, but once again, when we talk about raising premiums or co-financing by the state in raising premiums, farmers remind me that we should never forget the opportunity we all have together — so-called deductible franchises. Many farmers said that it is not a problem whether 30 or 40 or 50 % of the co-financing of the insurance premium is a problem, because here, as colleague Jurša correctly identified, insurance companies are being charged, and then it is somehow realized at a level such that this raise is not even so important, but these deductible franchises for a lot more important reason, whether it will decide to secure its products or products. And they say that there is an opportunity here and that this government or the previous government has gone a step away from this good solution, so all of us Members and Members expect to go back to farmers and what we have already proposed in one of the conclusions that we will also address the issues of deductible franchises. As for the other solutions, the distinguished Secretary of State, along with the other ministers and ministers, you have quite a few conclusions to make. However, if we start with conclusions that are not yet 100% realized in the area of the elimination of the consequences of the acorns, and last year's conclusions of the same Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly, as well as the conclusions that we are here, I think we have unanimously adopted at our meeting on 16 May this year. And, as Mr Jurša rightly pointed out, not only is it money that keeps farmers below the level of survival, but there are other measures that can enable farmers to survive. And I will conclude here that I will not go on the subject of what is wrong in the field of agricultural policy or what is missing in agricultural policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox is right, of course. Not only is it a disaster for farmers, but it is also not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the permits begin on the 16th. Thank you so much for sticking to him. The word has magic. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members who have discussed this matter. Allow me a few clarifications, first of all with regard to the amendment proposal, which would reduce the threshold at which financial assistance is granted to the most affected farms from 60% to 50% of the damage to the GErk. Here I want to explain, as I have already said on the Committee, that the following reasons are that the Government has set a threshold of 60% in the bill. Let me start with what is a system law, because it was also obvious that we do not have a system law or that some Members expected a system law in the National Assembly. We have a system law, a law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The law is clear, it says that there is no aid for damage caused by natural disasters in agriculture that can be secured or co-financed by such insurance premiums. If we were to act systematicly as the Ministry, we would say: "Agriculture, you had the opportunity or the opportunity to protect this crop. These insurancees are also partly co-financed by the state budget and there is no aid here.” But we were well aware of what had happened in practice. There was a cold last year, last year as it was 50 years ago, and this year another year, although we would expect that after some statistics or the probability of such a cold will not happen for another 30 years or I do not know how many years. There have been two catastrophic colds for each other, such as fruit farms or vineyard farms, many of which deal solely with them. What can a person do if he has a fruit plant or a vineyard and all is cold? He can't plant anything else. Dana was a parallel to the wheel. Hold, the images we're getting now, the images from the field, how the hailstorm has harvested some crops, are horrifying, but still, the field is available to maybe plant something else. Whoever's got corn for feed, now he's totally got corn, of course he's got a lot of damage, and that's a lot of damage, but the feed can be bought, the livestock can be sorted forward, it's not in a hopeless position. He's not in a hopeless position. But farmers who have fruit and wine growing and are two years without each income We have cases where the damage is 100%. [[…]] So not only do they have no income, they have a negative income because they have costs. The gardeners told us nicely — 5,000 is about the cost of maintaining the estate, even if you do not have a crop, because you have to sprinkle it because otherwise your illness will destroy it because you have to cut it off because you have to silence it and other parts. We have therefore had a case of emergency situations when the co-financing of insurance has been reduced due to the austerity measures they have cut in agriculture into measures financed from the integrated budget. While we have ensured that the funds of the PRP are fully used, not all countries in Europe have done so because they did not have co-financing. We did this because we would have done more damage to the sector, but here the level of funding was reduced. After last year's frost this year, 10 percentage points were higher, but it was still not 50%, which is the goal, because it was only 40% for fruit and 30% for vineyards. That is why we have come back with an intervention law, and we have no intention of working a system law for colds. No, we have a species, and I will also say, the systemic measures we want to train the sector to cope more easily with the damage to which we need to count, because climate change is a fact, they are here, but I will explain further. In short, as we did last year, because we are acting non-systemically or outside of the system law, we have decided to respect the same threshold of injury, but we are adding measures and aid measures to step up. Yes, the law says that financial aid is above 60% on a GERK or 30% on a farm, which is in line with a European regulation allowing for when a country can intervene. However, we have other measures, the write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance is possible in the event of damage of more than 30%. More than 30% of the measure introduced by this Act is active and effective, namely the subsidisation of the interest rate on loans. It is not only those who have 60 % or more of the damage, but others, if they have financial problems, that will be taken into account here. And these reverse credits, to tell you that I am also familiar with the last situation, are now in the process of receiving from the relevant authorities of the Regional Fund and bringing – because this has not yet been accepted, please take the reserve, but the proposal is – that the loans should be with a two-year moratorium and after two years, it is said that we are waiting for some normal crop to be made and then a five-year refund is possible, and there is no interest at that time, because interest on the loan will be co-financed by our Ministry, for which we will pay interest accordingly. This is now a reverse asset. But the Fund is already preparing a change, its rebalancing, on the basis of which a public call will also be made for a reprogramme of credits for those farms that have possibly been in investment over the years and now have difficulties in paying off credits. Let me tell you about these cases. I didn't say it before, but the loan for the assets will be issued 5 million and 2 million are foreseen for the re-programme of investment credits, where the moratorium will be up to 3 years and up to 20 years of repayment, up to 20% of these assets will be available for the assets, it is said that there will not be a farmer now for two loans, but if he has an investment, he will be able to take this reprogramming loan, and he will be able to allocate 20% not for the reprogramme of the loan, but for the assets he needs. But this is not an interest-free loan, but the interest rate will be between 0.1% and 0.5%, so it's a minimum, but it's not without interest, it's true. And thirdly, when I step up the measures, it is not possible to write off the rent under the Fund's rules if it is a natural accident that can be secured, but that is why we are doing an exception to this intervention law, as for all other natural disasters, for example, the drought is one that cannot be covered by the system law, and the rent can be written off where the damage is at least 50 %, and this write-off rate is up to 80 % proportional to the damage and over 80 % is a 100 % write-off. In short, if we want to help those with the worst problems, it is important that this threshold really hits the most affected. Because if you lower my threshold, it can happen to us — what? That then, although we have doubled the funds, we could not fully benefit from this increase in the support rate of up to 30%, which is once again a European regulation, it is said that we have given the maximum possible aid rate and we want that the funds are really enough for those who are expected to be the most affected, especially because their economic situation is even worse compared to last year because the second year is in order and the middle of no income. If I say any more about what I said before, why don't we plan a system law? We do not plan the system law because we have the systemic measures that we are upgrading now, which should be such that farmers, fruit growers and vineyard growers use all other instruments to defend the consequences of such severe natural disasters or severe colds. We are now in the budget – you have adopted the budget, in the end it is adopted by the National Assembly, but in the government procedure we have a proposal as a ministry that the co-financing rate of insurance premiums rises to 50%, according to the draft budget, we will increase this item. As has already been said by Ambassador Vojka Šergan, let me repeat, we are in the Rural Development Programme – now there is a change that will be adopted by the appropriate body at the end of the month and then goes into confirmation of the commission – only for investments that mean active defence against climate change Here I would also like to refer to the debate by Ambassador Levice Kordiša, who said that the agricultural sector does not have systematic adaptation measures to climate change, has them, I will explain them. [[…]] In the Rural Development Programme, we will raise the co-financing rate, which is the main investment, to 30%. But when it comes to irrigation investments, what is different than adapting to climate change? Counternets are only used in intensive fruit plantations, less so in vineyards where, of course, the consequences can also be catastrophic, but smaller pools do relatively less damage than in fruitland, where quality is a particular problem, it is for the plantation system and for the planters who are, I would say, higher insurance conditions in agriculture. For all four purposes of adapting agricultural production to climate change, we will increase the co-financing rate so that the initial rate of 50 %, but if someone is in organic production, exploits or implements environmental measures, is in an area with limited factors, where fruit production is mainly covered by wine production, in these cases it can reach a 70 % aid rate, if it is also a young acquirer and up to 75 % of the aid rate, and this is an exception, for all other investments, the maximum aid rate is 50 %. At the suggestion of the fruit growers who were part of this group, I mentioned earlier that all these measures are agreed and aligned with the profession, so it is said, with this profession coming to advisory services from agricultural institutions, from other institutions, we will now draw up technological guidelines, saying what options there are in the fight against the cold, because it holds that there is no water everywhere as a water source for irrigation, and there are, today, some other receptions and measures that can reduce the impact of low temperatures or cause air movement, whatever it can do at that time. There was a mention of aviation protection against the tide. Yes, we only implement it in northeastern Slovenia through two-year programmes adopted by the Government. Why? I wish there was such protection elsewhere, but there is no uniform opinion in the profession. Some of the experiments and surveys so far have shown that it was not possible to prove or disprove the effect, although practice, experience, observation of farmers indicate that if in one area such a way is to defend the breaking of clouds with iodine, I know what, they are established, then the rolling clouds can really move to the adjacent area. For this reason, we are still carrying out this defence in northeastern Slovenia, because the Austrians who are bordering it have it, and I think also in Croatia. The Ministry of the Environment, the Environment Agency and the Ministry of Health are against this measure on a case-by-case basis. The resources expose the impact of chemicals on the environment and also on efficiency, but precisely because it is a relatively cheap cost, we allocate about 57 000 a year to do so, giving municipalities which must, I think, contribute at least 60% and must also be included. As long as the initiative of the local congregations is given to some 80,000, in short, as long as the local congregations provide them with funds, the government insists on doing so despite the opposition of two key sources. That's it. Now, if you'll excuse me, it's about the time it takes to make financial assistance. It was requested that I tell you where this European legal basis is and why the Austrians are different. On the Committee on Agriculture, the representative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber told us all that because the Austrians get it from the mutual fund. This is not state aid, but I am now repeating words from there, and I know exactly what the European regulation says. The European Regulation states that the granting of aid is only possible after the date on which the aid scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises and the scheme for large enterprises enters into force. For large companies, there is another legal provision, there are guidelines, there are group exceptions and there are guidelines, there are slightly more demanding conditions for large companies, which we also have a few. How do we get confirmation? First, if I go from the end point back, the European regulation requires that the final assessment of the loss of income takes into account the average crops and prices in the year of damage. So, even if we could know by the end of the year what kind of crops will be, it's not that simple. I have taken a close look at the management of the Statistical Office, because I wanted to speed up this process, but they have a data collection system and then cross-references with these databases and the whole process and, of course, at least until a certain calendar year is over, they cannot have an evaluation data. This year they published an evaluation for last year on April 16th, if they worked very hard, they say they could have published this evaluation at the end of March. As long as we do not have this price, we cannot notify the scheme as a last resort, it is said to be notified or to the information system of the Commission to notify State aid in order to make payments on this basis. But what's the procedure before that? It was mentioned that there may have been some illogicality in the assessment last year, which is why we said that the final assessment this year would really be done at the time of the rescue or just before the rescue, so that it would be possible to eliminate the deviations between what farmers will assess in their application form for damage or insurance and what will be the opinion of the regional commissions. But when we have a final evaluation, this programme – in this part we use the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters – in the Government, and when the programme and the final evaluation are adopted, it is, of course, possible for farmers to give these pre-printed forms, which they then fill in as a role. What they will now report in the summer will essentially be damage reporting, so that we will have recorded everyone who thinks they have damage. However, what our agency, the paying agency for agricultural markets, will give farmers after the final assessment and after the adoption of the government programme as a pre-printed form will essentially be a claim for compensation. Notwithstanding the fact that this process can be done earlier, as it was done earlier this year for last year's damage, it is necessary to notify the State aid, before which such payments cannot be paid, to wait for the Statistical Office, to their assessment, and then to notify them, and then the payments are possible. Although it took a lot less this year, the Agency's deadline was indeed six months, but this year the Agency paid two and a half months ago because of the additional cold and difficult situation of farmers at the time they worked at the Agency, the Protection and Rescue Administration and all the competent authorities for weekends and holidays, that it went through and paid off on 16 May. I hope that everything will be done in the coming year to be paid as soon as possible after the date when we receive the latest data from the Statistical Office. Statistics say that it should cut into the price collection system so deep that it is possible to do so more in 2019. I hope that we will not have intervention law and intervention at that time. In summary, we understand the well-intention of the proposed amendments, but a reduction in the threshold would mean – once again, I would point out that the law and other measures also cover those who have suffered less damage, and I reiterate that this might reduce aid for those who do, for example, have 90 % or 100 % of the damage, and that this is a risk. For this reason, I believe that the Government's proposal for a 60% threshold was appropriate in the law. However, as far as these procedures are concerned, we will do everything we can to get the money as soon as possible, but we must comply with the rules because otherwise the aid would have been paid unjustifiably. And hold what you have said, Mr Lisec, if it were an irregularly paid aid, the threat was returned to the beneficiary himself. And once again, we believe that, in particular, when we have found a common language with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development of Ribnica, which will be financial aid, in addition to those who will receive the secured crops and receive the payments, they will usually receive additional calls for that part of their own participation in the same year, and by allowing interest-free loans, in particular through a long moratorium, a reprogramme of existing credits and a call for tender in the next year for the Rural Development Programme, I have said, up to 75% will be able to receive European funds, only if it is two years of drought in terms of revenues, will be a problem, as a result of which we have agreed with the Ribnica Fund to make a call for this part of their own participation in investment against climate change or for the defence of natural disasters. [[…]] In this way, we believe that, systematically at all levels, we have approached the sector to survive this two-year crisis and that we can overcome these problems and then continue to produce normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Who else wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members, Members, distinguished Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry, welcome! I must say that I am not inclined to have separate laws for individual projects or for individual problems, but there is obviously no other solution in this area, and I am also pleased that we are talking a little faster about this intervention law in the National Assembly this year. Indeed, there is a problem in those areas, in those individuals who depend solely on fruit production or on wine growing. This is not so small in Slovenia, so the event that happened last year and unfortunately also this year, the cold in April, is even more worrying. The data of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which has affected 71% of fruit growers and 38% of vineyards this year, seems extremely critical to me, but it is true that what has already been exposed today, regardless of the fact that it is not directly comparable, may have expanded the area a little further, and may have also talked about the tide, which in particular in Styria has done quite catastrophic damage in recent days. One of them was yesterday. The proposals or amendments made by the Slovenian Democratic Party seem justifiable to me, even though we have now heard individual explanations from the Secretary of State. But, Madam Secretary of State, you just didn't convince me. I want to know what the difference is. In fact, we just want to lower the border and in some way allow a few more farmers to benefit from these measures. I want to know what the difference is. How many of those who have suffered damage at least after this grave assessment are available between 50% and 60%? How many of these are there, and what would it actually mean in numbers if this limit were lowered to 50%, as proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party? I still can't figure out why 60% of the limit you insist on. I agree with you in your work that those who have been most affected should be helped to the greatest extent, but, however, it is difficult to say that someone who has had, I don't know, 59% of the crop destroyed, compared to those who have had 60%, I don't know, very difficult to set this limit, and that would at least extend it a little bit, and in some ways allow more people to receive at least a little help to survive. [[...]] In fact, the problem is because a very similar matter occurred twice — last year and this year. This actually means a loss of income almost entirely, except for those who have any other activity. Maybe we could still find one here, I don't know, maybe a supplemental version to let go of this limit, and maybe we can make it up to it, but that's true for those who really depend solely on it. We can also find some kind of solution in this direction. But I really can't understand why she insists on this 60%. The second, which is actually a big problem, is those long arms. Last year’s cold relief came just before the cold in this year’s year. This means that the whole calendar year has turned, which is, of course, unacceptable. The amendments that we have put in place in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which are heading towards making these things run a little faster, I think they are completely in place. I appeal to you Members to simply support our amendments, or the aid will come too late. A gross assessment of the damage in orchards and vineyards can be made today and, on the basis of this grave assessment, the procedures may be completed this year in autumn time and thus farmers will be paid at least by the end of this year. But we can be very precise, and in the coming year, we can make some calculations. But based on a rough assessment it is possible to do this this year, we are confident of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Only in this case would help come at some time when it would actually help these individuals. Because simply, I don't know hope, of course, we don't want a similar story to happen next year. [[…]] Let us also consider these things and find a more appropriate solution here. Even those deadlines you have given, which, while in Article 19 and are being amended, we cannot really understand why the Ministry of Agriculture needs six months after the entry into force of this law to inform about the start of the application. [[…]] You've put six months in your own motion. This can be done within a few weeks. And our proposal is within a month. The following issue is the application, which is then decided by the Agency. You also have a six-month deadline here, and our proposal is within three months. Why does the agency need six months? This is a matter of extraordinary events and I think it is crucial here that we reduce this time substantially and that this year's aid comes to these individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In fact, at the beginning, before I can identify myself to the amendments, I would like to say a few words about this intervention law on agricultural aid. Last year alone, the first law, which was very much monitored and also talked to stakeholders in the field who were affected last year and had damages of 90% and more. We also talked last year, we had convened committees on which we discussed this issue. We have highlighted the problems we have encountered in the field, including with opposition colleagues. I understand all of this very well, and I understand it, but to that point, when we did get the explanations, when they explained exactly why it happened, and I have to say that now I don't understand. The secretary also explained why this six-month procedure was needed, explaining why not 50, why 60. Now I will try to explain this on my own, by asking my colleagues from the SDS, or should those who have been hit 100 percent in the second year agree that instead of getting the damage reimbursed 60% – and really have been seriously affected for two years in a row – they will only get 50% of the refund? Why are those who have been severely affected for two years and are now going to receive a minor amount of compensation? That's exactly why I can't. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Do you allow me to say it to the end? We don't bother you, either, when you explain yours. It turned out in the implementation of last year's law that this 60% was an appropriate percentage and that those affected and compensated at this level somehow covered costs. We have also advocated in the Modern Centre Party that this year an individual approach be taken so that farmers can also report damage themselves. This has now been improved and achieved by this law. The farmer will be able to report the damage himself this year and the agency will only check whether the damage is properly assessed or not. This is because these areas in Slovenia are really as specific, as you mentioned, for example, one valley was affected by 90% and the other 50%. Even so, the insurance company received one rating and even better than the Agency estimated. It was because of these different assessments and they had no opportunity for farmers to approach them individually that this year improved because the funding model has changed. This is why we cannot support these amendments. Because, as I have already pointed out, in some ways they are not viable, they are even negative for some other business operators and affect those who have suffered the most damage. Like I said, those who suffer the most damage would get less. It should be stressed once again that already 30% of the damage assessment will be able to benefit from these reliefs, both for land purchases and for disabled and all social contributions. In doing so, I would like to point out that contributions have now even extended the application period from 15 days to 60 days, which is also a relief, a minor obstacle or an account is taken that each individual farmer will be able to submit this application more easily within 60 days than before in 15 days. Here, too, we must not forget, as the secretary has said, that it is also a matter of involving the Slovenian Regional Development Fund, which will subsidise interest rates, that is to say for both the operating assets and the extension of existing investment credits, because some have been affected for the second year. However, as regards the amendment, which speaks of a reduction in the submission of applications by 6 months, I think that, as has been presented and has already been done in practice under the previous intervention law of 2016, the services must carry out a whole range of activities since the confirmation of the final injury assessment, which is known only in autumn, as the Secretary of State has also said, and we cannot challenge this. Who can say that damage can be estimated earlier than in the autumn if it is only then reviewed how the crop was in different areas? You can't. And if we add it up, we can't shorten these deadlines in months. Then a programme to remedy the consequences was adopted, which is only a result of how the damage is assessed. We've heard that on the committee, today I repeat it for the third time, but maybe at least the public will understand what we're talking about. The final assessment is only possible in harvesting crops, then the adoption of the government, then the European rules described by the secretary in detail, how they go, and then cannot be expected, given that it is then the European Commission – since this is an intervention law and because this is considered an aid, the European Commission must confirm this aid so that it can then be paid. I think that this law, which you said was copy-paste last year, is not copy-paste, but is improved, takes into account all of our debates that we had on the committees when we were critical of how the law was implemented. I wish it had been a payout before myself, but if we have an argument that it can't be done, then I don't know why we should insist. However, since you have already talked about getting paid in Austria before, then let us talk about whether we also have a risk fund, a solidarity fund, and that the country then invests certain funds instead of insurance premiums, in subsidies, and then farmers again on our side, only here is the need for at least a three-party agreement and a conversation between individual stakeholders who would agree that such a fund is also in Slovenia. Then I could overcome the fact that farmers would receive payment immediately and the country would be able to pay it through this fund. In short, for the reasons that I have stated, I will not support these amendments, and the intervention law, as an aid to farms that have been severely affected, certainly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. Nothing hurtful, but just well-intentioned. Next time you give her your word, Mrs. Vojko Shergan, ask if she has read the law and the amendments because she misunderstood them. The fact that we give from 60% to 50% does not mean that those you mentioned, for example, who have been affected by the cold, will now get 50% refunded instead of 60%, but that the limit will be reduced from 60% to 50%. This means that there will be a wider range of beneficiaries in order to reach those who are injured between 50% and 60%. It really means that those who had more will eventually get less because the circle of beneficiaries is expanding if we look at the amount of money that is meant to do so, yes. Not that they will now receive 50 % of the damage in lieu of 60%. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. This was a procedural abuse because it was pure controversy. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you. I really don't know if I was misunderstood or if they don't know what we were talking about. This is about 50% and 60%, and how then one who gets 100% less is not. Read the assessment of the financial implications. The government doesn't even know how much it's going to give. It's supposed to be a rough estimate. Because she will give it because you were pleased to do so, in 2018. From the general budget reserve from 2018, the government will give something. It doesn't say here, the government will give exactly that. Read the assessment of the financial implications, "about" should be provided. We are simply extending the circle of those who would be affected by this measure. Not only those with 60 % of those affected or threatened by the cold, but 50%. That's all it is. Earlier, a colleague of Susan's asked if the answer could be from the Ministry, whether there could be data from last year's cold on the basis of rough estimates or from last year's cold, on how many beneficiaries were between this limit – 50 and 60 % of the level of risk. But you can get it? And believe me, you wouldn't have in any way broken your perfect financial imagery. We wouldn't have broken it. We are only lowering the minority rate because we are saying, once again, we are talking about intervention law and we are not referring to systemic laws and we are saying that 50 is more than half. And who, with more than 50%, is marked with a degree of threat, in our view, is entitled to at least some small. And yes, it's an absolute fact that someone who took 100 percent of the cold from him was completely in a different class than someone who took either 50 or 60 or 70% from him. Of course, we would all like this scone together — perhaps farmers would say, I don’t know — for at least 20 million would probably come, the Farmers’ Union or the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. But only to those of the border, even on the basis of the fact that the Commission's assessments are very different, we want to give the possibility that, as we say, a dozen farmers or insurers or non-insureds, because you are also making it possible this year, you can get certain funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am not a great supporter of intervention laws myself, and I will explain why not. I would say that in this situation, intervention laws are just fire-fighting. Intervention laws are fire-extinguishing. Freezing, drought, and hail is not a natural disaster. The cold, hail and drought are not an earthquake you cannot predict, but the cold, hail and drought are an annual result of the climate conditions in the Republic of Slovenia. This is an annual result of the climate situation in the Republic of Slovenia. These climate conditions need to be countered and solutions to be found by means of measures. Because if we don't, we're not going to be adopting an intervention law every year, we're going to have to adopt an intervention law three times a year. Three times a year! The right approach to solutions would be to be in the budget this year and in the tender, I do not know, 20 or 25 or 30 million for investments in all three measures, in measures against frost, flood and drought. It's not like we're just saving these post-festum funds, I'd say, with a cash refund, but the second year, the story will repeat itself. This is not a systematic approach to solving the climate situation in the Republic of Slovenia. These are not major disasters. This is just a consequence of the climate situation, and you don't want to understand at the Ministry that this is happening every year, that it is repeated three times a year, and that the drought will also come twice or three times a year. This needs to be understood and this needs to be accepted. This isn't an earthquake you can't predict. A lot of information was provided by the distinguished State Secretary to prevent this being State aid, which is prohibited under the European Regulation. See, in Austria, where they can very well protect their domestic national garden, for every agricultural activity is a state subsidy. For everyone. For livestock farming, for this, for that, for another, because in Austria they also have, I say, the so-called boutique agriculture we have in the Republic of Slovenia. But they know through funds, through agencies, how to make these payments. It is true that in the Republic of Slovenia we can easily steal a billion or two from a bank, but we do not know through agencies or through another fund to pay certain damages. We don't know that. As regards the application instructions for these censuses, damage, interventions and so on, please see, given the number of beneficiaries registered last year, there are not even 50 % of those eligible for compensation. On the board, we asked that we get a list, not a name list, but actually by the surfaces, which are those beneficiaries, to get a review of what this number is according to the applications. But of course we have not yet received this, but I will insist on the committee of working bodies that we get this, that we actually get one review of how big these beneficiaries are. And I would like you to give clear instructions on the next call, to which the surface of which farmers do not bother at all, not to make applications at all, not to make applications, not to report that it is not then said, yes, because to those small ones it did not pay in any way, but in fact they will have more damage than they will get these reported sums. In short, let the instructions be clear. Make the instructions clear. It is not necessary now, it has already been answered to colleague Vojka, who has replaced the percentage of beneficiaries with a percentage of the payment, but we understand that all of us who have read both the amendment proposal and the law itself, so that the circle of beneficiaries can be increased. According to only half of the payment according to last year's application, of course, this amendment is welcome. It'll cover a larger number. What was the reason that only 50% of the beneficiaries actually had to pay for the damage, I don't know. I don't know. There was a good 50% of these beneficiaries. I don't know what the reason was. They didn't check in or have too little surfaces and so on. So I'm asking that we get this information, then we know why. Then here's the time dynamic amendment. Those farmers who have been cold for two years in a row will be out of revenue for three years. Three years! And they're going to have a negative financial balance, they're going to have costs, and they're going to have no income for three years. If they lose their crops for two years, income is not three years, and it is therefore very important when it will compensate for damage. Very important. And that the ministry takes six months to decide with some dynamics, with some kind of review and so on, I don't know, it's inexcusable and incomprehensiblely long-term. The proposal is that, as the rapid intervention law must be adopted, these tasks should also be carried out at intervention speeds. At intervention speed. Those two months are no vacations, no other educations, and so on, work needs to be done. In order for those beneficiaries who will have to borrow to survive, they must be provided with this assistance as soon as possible, and this is our amendment that reduces those hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have been talking about financial aid all the time, and I wonder whether the basic objective of this law is merely and exclusively to grant financial assistance to those affected. In fact, I'm going to take a conversation with a neighbor of mine who says, "You know, without financial assistance we're probably going to survive, but without the other measures that this law brings, we probably couldn't." Above all, I am thinking about vineyards, or that part, of that measure that was already very important last year, and especially this year. It is a measure of buying grapes from other wine-growing areas, which also allows natural persons who are not independent entrepreneurs to purchase grapes and thereby preserve their market, which is very important. Measures that seem important to me are also those that help people who are affected do not have costs. Above all, there are two areas — winemaking and fruit production. This means what Mrs State Secretary explained very precisely earlier. I also cannot agree with the fact that this intervention law is a copy-pasta, because things, as the colleague mentioned earlier, have been improved in relation to the previous law, where some proposals are taken into account not only by members of the Committee of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber but also by individuals who have been affected. Further, on the systemic solutions and systemic measures that we are discussing. In one of the debates I also said myself, and I hope that this will be the last intervention law in the field of agriculture. I must say that I am extremely positive about these changes, which have been adopted so that this damage will not actually happen, so to prevent the consequences that we have now. So change the Rural Development Programme and all these measures that lead to such and similar solutions. What about the system solution? I've heard before that cold, hail, and drought are not natural disasters. If we are talking about natural disasters, I must say that I have just re-examined the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents, which speaks of flooding and drought being defined as natural disasters, so there is a system law in this area. But let me repeat once again, as we have heard before, the intervention law brings different solutions and allows those who do not have an insured crop to be helped, either through financial assistance or through other measures that are even more important to some. I will not talk about it again, limit 50, limit 60, because we have heard a very precise explanation, and I understand it and therefore support the law as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Initially, I must say that I will support this amendment or amendments that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we have made it very clear that the circle of beneficiaries of monetary assistance is expanding, and I think that there is no problem that those who have suffered 50% of the damage are entitled to receive this compensation. Because someone who's been causing him 50 percent of the damage in two years in a row is in extremely serious trouble. I come from the Slovenian Mountains myself, and I come from an area where exactly this has happened – last year a 95 % damage occurred to me at home, says 95 % destroyed and last year about 60 % there. But since I'm not a big farmer, I didn't sign up for these funds. But those people who live around me, who have big vineyards, winemakers, those who have big fruits of pears or apples and so on, of course they can't survive it and with great difficulty survive it. And for those people, it's crucial -- I'm talking about Jacob, where the big winemakers are, I'm talking about the Holy where the big winemakers are, and so on -- for those people, it's important that they get the money and this money compensation as soon as possible. That's the point. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to draw attention to these solutions – of course, we support the law so that no one understands the wrong, we have supported the previous and also this – but we want these people to receive this money as soon as possible. Because to wait two years or look at it, it was not until last May that they received a refund for last year’s cold, if I was properly informed. And what they got was those who had 85% of the damage caused, say in the vineyard, the winemakers, and those who had 60% of the damage caused by the 200 euros per hectare. What right is that? What kind of justice is that? Is that normal? That seems unacceptable to me! That's what the winemakers warned me about. I'm not an expert, I didn't go to look, but I saw one decision – those who had 85%, and those who had 60% got a 200-euro flat rate per hectare of vineyards. Madam Secretary of State said earlier that those with, say, a hectare of apples planted have an annual cost per hectare of EUR 5,000. And they told me, those who had 85% or 80%, that they were reimbursed thousands of euros per hectare, and 5,000 euros have annual costs and so on. And it's only been a year! These are important questions, these are fundamental questions, these are key questions and we need to look for solutions here! The Ministry does not say that they are key European directives! What about us? What don't we Slovenians exist or what? Don't we exist, we can't do anything? The Austrians, as my colleague Ljubo Žnidar said earlier, can make up a fantastic story about how to protect their people within the European Union, but nothing is wrong. We're nothing! But we all, yeah, this is a directive, exactly defined, so we don't have to do anything. To sit well on chairs, to warm chairs, we have nice wages in the ministry, we live well, the Jew walks all over Slovenia like a little god and so on, and in fact he has done as much damage to Slovenian farmers as not all previous ministers have done together, and so on and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't know how long you've been sitting in those places in the Ministry of Agriculture, and you're saying there's nothing you can do, but you have to leave these places, so you have to be replaced. It is necessary to put those people up there who will have an interest in helping people, helping a Slovenian farmer. Those who search for solutions need to be found, not problems as to how some solutions cannot be solved. These are fundamental questions, and we want to do just that, and this is exactly what we're going to say, to the government and public administration, sitting like a bug in a chair, saying that if you already have a good salary there, if you're sitting there, you should do something about it. Not that you tell people, but that's not possible. We've got enough of this. This state bureaucrat apparatus has Slovenian people over its head. I don't care how someone writes from which customer they're from. Here, it seems important to ask questions that need to be answered in the future. And if we think about it that way, then these farmers and all those winemakers, those who have the orchards, and so on, will be satisfied that they will receive help in time so that they can solve all the problems that have occurred to them. God will not let another cold take place in that environment. Because I talk to them every day, I go to them, I'm not afraid of people. Madam Secretary of State, you said earlier that hail is no problem that hail is not included in these natural disasters. Do you know what it means if a hailstorm hits a vineyard? What are the consequences of the vineyard? And what are the long-term consequences? Three, four years from now, the consequences are eliminated because of damage to the cane. That's the point, the cane needs to recover, and how much costs it takes to help the cane start giving birth again. That's one question to ask. Those of you sitting in your offices have no idea because you probably haven't seen one cane in your life. Go take a look at this. And people bomb me every day in my environment, my neighborhood, and they say where these state bureaucrats are, they come to see how things work on the ground. And here you're trying to tell us with some bureaucratic obstacles that something can't be done and that there's nothing we can do. Please, stop it! Let us work once in the interest of the Slovenian people, the one who pays you!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Tanya Strnisha, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. A few answers first. First of all, I would like to remind Member Ljub Žnidar that, at his question or request at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on 4 May, when he proposed or asked for information on how many farms, why only half of those farms that have received preprinted forms by the Agency have returned those signed forms, which were considered to be a payment request, the reply was sent with the date of dispatch from the Ministry of State to the National Assembly on 12 May, i.e. in a river and write for eight days. And I'm not going to right now, because I can only see the answer on the phone, and I can read the data you have, but I would still say two. First of all, that in a group of larger farms – because it was so requested that we report according to the size of the farms who returned the form, because due to the protection of personal data of course we were unable to send the list – we have also found from these tables and data that 80% of those farms that have more than 1 hectare of affected areas have returned them. Of those who have more than 5 hectares of plantations, vineyards or orchards, which is considered to be indeed professional fruit growers and vineyards, 94%. Why didn't everyone come back? Now, of course, we can guess. We asked this question at the same meeting, and we expected some answers from them, and I don't know if they've ever been sent to you. However, the fact is that each beneficiary, by signing this application application, also made a statement that it had suffered injury. We had a different system last year. Let me remind you, last year there was a computer system that crossed the weather data on maps where there were plantations, and on this basis the damage was partly calculated and the only damage correction in this direction, if there was no one, was that someone didn't admit it. It can also, of course, be because it is in this group, but if other data were to look at how many did not return them among those little ones, because on the other hand, the law says that claims are not being paid, and these were something if the compensation was recognised less than 100 euros. This is a standard in other cases, but it comes from the law. So among small farmers, maybe someone didn't bring them back. This is the data, but I want to say again, we were invited, we were asked, and we responded in eight days. Second. When you talk about this impossible response time, only two data would indicate two other natural disasters that have been dealt with under the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters. So it wasn't in the meantime that we had to write an intervention law because the system law had already worked, but it was the same way. Natural disaster, in both cases of drought, the Commission assessing damage, then a programme to remedy the consequences on the Government and the payment. Let's hear it. In 2011 it was dry, the payment was on 30 August 2012. And then drought 2013, 30 July 2014. I chose two different periods on purpose, and we had a system law. But that's not what this is about. I'll be brief. Believe me, if there was any chance of us doing this sooner, we would have done it sooner because the minister would have forced us or would have pushed us to do it in the short term. Now, as far as the impact of the reduction of the threshold is concerned, I can only say data for last year, because the preliminary assessment is done in the same way, in a computer way that does not express this level of damage, because it is very flat-rate by the advisory service and any assessment would be a complete speculation. Secondly, last year's actual payout was at the end of 11%, although the law allowed up to 20%, it allows up to 30% this year because, as I said at the outset, the pressure of the most affected is even worse. Once again, this law saves endangered farms, those who live on those who specialize and are mostly the only ones with income. As a result, we have a higher level of aid, up to 30%, even twice as much money, but a reduction in the threshold would, according to our estimate, mean that the most vulnerable would not get up to 30 but I don't know where we're going to get to 25, to 27, but definitely a smaller percentage if we could reach this set of beneficiaries. And once again, who has at least half of the crop will be able to help himself with half the income if he can't, but if that's not enough, I repeat that he has credit. As far as flat-rate payments are concerned, regardless of the damage, it generally does not. It may have been such a case in a particular case, but in fact, the method is that, you know, it depends first on what culture you have to see, what it was like, what the statistical basis is, which is taken into account for the calculation of damage. Because the damage isn't individual, but it's on average data. Then the difference between the insured who have the full premium is only half the value between those who do not have insurance due to European rules. Then the difference is whether someone is on the OMD, because in this case they can take account of the maximum of 80 % of the damage or, if outside of that, 90 %. In doing so, the insurance shall be considered as a common aid. So, in fact, this compensation per hectare fluctuated greatly between cultures, according to the level of damage between vineyards and orchards, depending on the extent of the damage, the area and whether or not someone was insured. In general, in all other conditions, the two received the same compensation. But they were swinging for the reasons I listed earlier. Since we also received the same questions to the Ministry, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia also sent a letter explaining the calculation of the damage and also the variation of the damage according to the elements I have highlighted per hectare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I just want to apologize for the lapsus that happened to me. My intention was to present that if you're expanding your rights with the same budget, that's 7 million, that's probably when those who are most affected get less. We all do. There's something else I'd like to say. In view of the fact that you have also spoken from the opposition about what subsidies, payments and so on in order to make a little haste, it is necessary to say on the ground that the subsidy is also when individuals did not have to pay social contributions, Mr Pojbič. You have to explain that, too. This also contributes to lower costs. This is certainly to be taken into account. And there's something else I'd like to say. In this room it seems as if — you say that we should not share, but now in this room in this marriage — you are one for helping people, and we are the other for deciding this law, but we are not helping people. I think that the common denominator is actually helping everyone with this intervention law, and the interpretation of the vision is how, how and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Apparently, the lady didn't understand me in practical terms. First of all, I have to say we're not sharing anything, because none of us said we didn't support the marriage. Mrs. Vojka, please listen to what we're saying. We have predicted that, just like you, we, you, all Members, those, have announced that we support the law, so we do not share if we say that we support the law, regardless of who filed it. That's the first thing. Previously, you said that if the circle of beneficiaries expands, then, according to your assessment, if it's the same budget, they'll all get less. Yes, I agree. But as we spread the circle of beneficiaries, no one said that the same budget should be allocated. And let the ministry make sure that this budget is bigger and everyone gets the same. That's what we were gonna say, that's all. Did you understand that or didn't you? I don't know if you understand. This is the goal, this is the fact that no one would get less, but that the circle of beneficiaries would all get the same as they got at least after that part of the law is 60%. This is what I wanted to tell Mrs. Vojka that I still think when I argue in this direction that we must not share in yours and ours, that I insist on this. And it seems to me that it is fair, especially fair, for all those people who are being touched by this law that we are now talking about. I'm coming right from the environment where people are far more burdened with this frost. I think it's right that there is no one here in the National Assembly who would object. I hope that today there is no group of Members, at least as far as I have listened, because I have been here since the beginning, said that it is against this law. So we're all ours. Thank God, we're all ours once. But if we have different opinions about the amendments and so on, if some people don't understand and then the neighbor sitting next to you has to explain how you have to say that it will turn out to be credible, but that's another thing. Because the ones we look at here on this side, we're not stupid enough not to understand things, so don't worry. Thanks to your colleague, Private, for being able to explain what this was all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This year, a delegation of the Committee on Agriculture went to the Czech Agriculture Committee's invitation to the Czech Republic. The delegation was chaired by the SDS President, Mr Lisec, and was also Vice-President, and I was Member of the Left, Violet Tomić and myself. Why am I saying this? We were at the end of May and also Czechs, you will not believe, had both last year and this year's cold. Among other things, we discussed the subject of cold. When we visited their ministry, we talked to their secretary, who told us that they were paying for the money or aid for last year’s frost. Why are they doing this? Because otherwise, under European rules, we cannot do this before. Today we are listening on the SDS side as well as on the Left side in the position that we should pay everything in two months. But if we want to go legally under the rules of the European Union, we cannot do that. Even the Czechs would have wanted to do it sooner, but they couldn't, but they did, just like they paid me back in May for last year's cold. So much for the hands. Some of these deadlines you want to shorten. These are the extremes that have been brought to this extreme by possible complaints, and this is actually happening much earlier than in six months. These deadlines are said to be earlier, written by law in such a way that complaints can theoretically occur and all proceedings may be dismissed. In practice, however, all these activities are carried out as quickly as possible. The SDS delegation explained that aid should be paid on the basis of these preliminary grave assessments, over the thumb in fact, and that they would then be doing the calculation. We can't do this. State aid cannot thus be paid; we do not have a legal basis. But do you imagine that this would still be possible, but then we'll go into the account when it's clear the second year, when the statistical office will issue an assessment of what the income was, and then we'll send farmers back to pay what was overpaid. These are additional bureaucratic obstacles that you're up against. But this is also an imaginary situation, because we cannot do this under European legislation and it is not fair to discuss this here and give people hope that we can do this sooner. It can't be done sooner. Not if it's state aid. But if we have some risky fund where farmers pay up and don't belong under this legislation, then yes. But we don't have that. Why we don't have this, it might be a matter of debate on one other occasion. But it has to be realized that then it will also be necessary to pay for it, including farmers, even those who, say, in this case would not get it back. Now they get fruit growers, vineyard growers, not others. That's why it's a more complex problem. As long as we are talking about the state reserve, we are limited to the law as the Czechs, as well as to many others, and we need to stick to the deadline. Therefore, in this sense, I find it unfair to attack the Ministry without optimal preparation of the law. In fact, the law is good because it also introduces many other measures, which are also welcome and necessary for those farmers who have been affected by this frost. New ones have been added, at the same time the evaluation process itself and the possibilities for individual treatment have been added, not in the law, but in the very enforcement of this law. All that proved to be a problem last year was taken into account this year, so this time it should not be. Although we all want it to be paid earlier, it is regrettable to say that, under European legislation, it cannot be paid sooner, neither we nor the other members of the European Union can do so. That seems important to me to say. But the law, as I say, is good, but it's a shame we have to accept it at all. But climate change is our reality, and it does not seem fair to me to explain that we are not taking action, that we are not investing in the fight against climate change, because that is not true. If you decide not to listen when we explain to you what is going on in the fight against climate change, it doesn't matter whether we talk or not if we don't want to hear it. However, both greenhouses and irrigation systems are co-financed, and this will increase. So it works on prevention as well. If this prevention is successful enough, probably then such laws as we are adopting today, and I want to do so, it will no longer have to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u111	Is there any other desire to discuss it? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude with a debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on the supplementation of the law on the death penalty and disability insurance after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratusek. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the proposaler, Dr Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! I am pleased that the proposal to amend the law tabled by colleague Alenka Bratušek on his mother's working body has received broad support from both the parliamentary groups and the Government and, more importantly, from the young people concerned by this amendment. We are, and we will finally show young people that we not only listen to them but also hear them. I hope that this is a step towards creating greater trust between us. Students and students working through the Student Service also contribute to the pension fund, about 100 million euros over the last two years, while in the world of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance they continue to support their representative. Thus, we have young people on the one hand who, in their work, are filling our budget properly and who want to influence decisions concerning their future, and on the other hand, we are concerned about the information that the Republic of Slovenia has one of the lowest levels of youth participation in the European Union. This is also one of the reasons that prompted the decision to table, with colleague Alenka on behalf of the Alliance, a proposal to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, whose objective you already know well. It is right that the debates and decisions concerning the welfare of young people themselves are actively involved. Moreover, the political and broader social participation of young people has a positive impact on both the degree of democracy of the State and their ability to become more autonomous. The representative of young people, on our proposal to the Council of the Institute, is appointed by the Students' Organisations of Slovenia, because it is the only organisation that receives the concession fee to finance the operation. These countries are contributed by companies that give students a job, about 20% of the amount earned by the student through a travel agent. The Board of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance also consists of representatives of several interest groups, namely pensioners, disabled persons, workers and employers. Since it is most important for society as a whole to create a quality social dialogue, one in which participants legitimately represent all stakeholders, it is also right that young people who are increasingly contributing to the pension fund have a say in decision-making. The proposed amendment thus follows the principles of representativeness, equality, freedom of expression and democratic decision-making. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we believe that you will also support our proposal for a law at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u113	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At its 43rd meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, which was tabled in the procedure of colleague Mirjam Bon Klanjšček and colleague Alenka Bratušek. Representatives of the proposer as well as representatives of the Government, or of the competent Ministry of Labour, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council, as well as representatives of the Slovenian Youth Council and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, participated in the work of the Committee. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit, but amendments were tabled by the Desus Group and the SD Group of Members for an amendment of the Committee to Article 1, which provides in the Council of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute that the Council also has representatives of the Youth Council of Slovenia and two additional representatives of pensioners with the representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. In its opinion presented by the State Secretary at the meeting of the Committee, the Government stressed that it had already been in the White Paper on pensions presented to the public last April as one of the measures proposed to amend the composition of the Institute's Council in order to reintroduce it or appoint a student representative. This measure would establish a more appropriate representation of individual pension stakeholders, and such a measure was also unanimously supported by the debate within the framework of the social partners. The Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons has also addressed a proposal for a law that supports it. And there's something short from the debate itself. In its opening remarks, colleague Klanjšček, as proposer of the proposal, stressed that the proposed law follows the objective of strengthening social dialogue through greater representativeness of partners involved in social dialogue. Young people have been calling for inclusion for a long time, so they would be given an equal position in society or the opportunity to choose equally. It is right that young people are actively involved in discussions and decisions concerning their welfare. It has also been pointed out that the political and broader social activity of young people shows the healthy functioning of democracy and has a positive impact on the identity of young individuals. Participation improves the achievement of youth autonomy and improves the quality of their management of society and life in it, as both young people take responsibility for their own future and for the future of society as a whole through participation in social dialogue. The positions were also presented by representatives of the ŠOS or the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the Youth Council of Slovenia, who support the bill. In the course of the discussion, the most important was the speech on the need to involve young people in decision-making in the world of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. Some felt that, in addition to the representative of the ŠOS, namely the Student Organisation of Slovenia, the representative of the Youth Council of Slovenia should also be appointed, as the ŠOS, mentioned in the initial proposal of the law, should represent only its membership, i.e. students, but not other young people involved in this area. Therefore, a proposal by the amendment committee was also proposed to ensure representativeness in the board of directors, i.e. the presence of young people in a broader sense and two additional representatives of pensioners. Unfortunately, however, this amendment was rejected or not accepted. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled to the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u115	To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not opposed to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was submitted by Members Alenka Bratušek and Mirjam Bon Klanjšček. We agree with the proponents that the membership of a representative or youth representative in the World of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance should pursue the objective of strengthening social dialogue through greater representativeness of partners involved in social dialogue. This would provide young people with an equal position in society and an opportunity to participate in debates and decisions that also concern or, above all, their future. By participating in the social dialogue, young people would take responsibility for their own future and for the future of a wider society. The Board of the Institute shall be responsible for ensuring the efficient operation of the institution and the implementation of the compulsory pension and disability insurance, and shall be responsible for the adoption of all necessary general acts for the implementation of compulsory insurance, as well as the acts necessary for the efficient and rational operation of the institution, but shall not have jurisdiction in the legislative field. Nevertheless, it can give initiatives and proposals on the basis of addressing and monitoring systemic issues in the field of pension and disability insurance. As has already been said today, the White Paper on pensions, which was presented to the public in April 2016 as one of the measures proposed to amend the composition of the Institute's Council in order to re-engage a student representative or representative. This measure would establish a more appropriate representation of individual pensioners. And it is true that such a measure has also been unanimously supported by the social partners, but by complementing that it is necessary to take account not only of students but also of students. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, believes that all participants in the pension system must be involved in the world of the institution, both active and passive. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities also favoured the adoption of the amendment tabled by the SD and Desus Group of Members of the Home Committee, which would allow two representatives of youth organisations to be part of the institution's world, in order to ensure that not only students, but also other young people, who are equally important stakeholders in society and how they are concerned about the future of the pension allowance, would be represented in the ZPIZ.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u117	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In order to be able to sustain the pension system in the future, and in all the changes that are yet to be and not only unique, to have the confidence of people, young people who will pay for it and which are in fact the future change and evolution of the pension system in our country is the most important thing, including the inclusion of those same in decision-making systems, even systems that have a consultative nature and even in systems that do not necessarily have a direct legislative or implementation power. That is why we welcome the draft law before us, and we will support it, as we did on the committee. However, we must add that we are disappointed that it has not been possible to reach consensus on the inclusion of all categories in the presentation of young people as well as older people, as I have rightly been reminded by my colleague Prikl. Young people are not only students, they are not only young doctoral students and doctoral students, young people are also those who have dropped out of the education system, they are those who have been employed, they are apprentices, all of whom are not just covered by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. That is why it was important for us to follow the definition of a national youth programme adopted by the previous assembly with an absolute majority, without a vote against it. It clearly states that our task is to ensure the participation of young people of all categories from 15 to 29 years of age, in line with European strategies to the greatest extent possible. However, it should be national, whether it be local inclusion or inclusion in sectors concerned. And young people, including those who are not included in the formal education system, and also those who cannot benefit from student or student tips, are concerned with the issue of pension allowance and its future arrangements. If young people do not trust in the system that is built, they will not pay in. If the funds paid are gone and young people are looking for alternative solutions to what is being offered today, and they will feel that they are not being heard, then, hand to heart, our discussions on the sustainability of the pension system can in fact be over soon. That is why I believe that there will also be strength and opportunity, and we have also discussed this with the proposer, and the Social Democrats confirm once again that we will support this change, that the involvement of young people should also be extended through the Youth Council of Slovenia on the issue of pension sustainability regulation. Why am I saying this? Also because we have two laws at the level of presentation of young people: the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, which explicitly refers to the Youth Council of Slovenia as a umbrella youth organisation, and the Law on the Community of Students, which in the smaller segment grants representativeness to the Student Organisation of Slovenia. If we exclude all young people from presenting themselves at the level of management of the pension register, then we have taken a step within which young people, young people who have fallen out of education and young people who may be abroad today want to return to Slovenia have been excluded from the future, a future they may not recognize as those within which they would like to pay contributions to the pension register, which is crucial for us to even think about the next white book, the next reform. As has already been said, the Social Democrats support the inclusion of young people, which we understand in the context of the National Youth Programme, which is adopted by the State Assembly document, and we also announce with support support the support of future efforts to correct what has been done to the Committee in our view as unfair, namely the exclusion of all young people from cooperation because they do not have student status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u119	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u120	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the bill is to enable young people to participate in decision-making on an area to which they contribute. Students and students have contributed to the pension fund since the last change in the contribution of the temporary work of students and students. According to the 2015 proponents, about €58 million and €43 million in 2016. In their view, students and students are therefore entitled to membership in the world of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. The aim of the novel is to increase the level of participation of young people, which is among the lowest in the European Union. We support the proposed amendment in principle, as do many others, and we also have the question of the representativeness of an organisation that is supposed to appoint a member of the Council of the Institute. The student organisation of Slovenia is only a student housing organisation, which in our view is not enough to ensure representativeness. The amendment proposed at the committee meeting was good and unfortunately not adopted. It would provide for the possibility of appointing a representative to the Council of SPIZ, both the SOS and the Youth Council of Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal of the law. The answer to the need for young people to regain confidence in the pension system will be found in the pension reform of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u121	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levica, we have a common position on both related proposals. We will not oppose them, but we think that such legal solutions create only the appearance of political participation of young people, at a pace we do not eliminate the reasons why young people have lost all confidence in conventional politics. In addition, we will continue to be critical of a policy that young people understand as an indivisible stakeholder group, as it is neglected and diverted from the various social situations and relations and from the conflict situations that govern society is also said among young people. For society is divided not into young and old, but into classes. For the population of Slovenia, it is not so important whether he is 29 years old or 31 years old when he is officially no longer young, but it is important whether he comes from a wealthy or poor family, whether he inherits an apartment or not, whether he owns a small property or is entirely dependent on his work. That is why we are always looking for solutions in Levica to reduce inequality and eliminate the exploitation of all, regardless of their age. In doing so, the policy of artificial division is a major obstacle to the identity groups that are successfully played by the authorities. Old versus young, young versus old. Pencils against regular employees, industrial workers against public workers. The political representation of young people on an identity basis is just a smoke screen that conceals the true nature of capitalist society. That unemployment among young people is still at a high level, that the chances of self-reliance from parents are deteriorating and that their quality of life is declining, is not, as the proponents argue, due to the insufficient involvement of young people in social dialogue. Low conventional political participation joins all these negative trends and has the same cause with them. This is a bad policy that does not allow young people to enter the labour market safely, which does not allow them to gain self-reliance, which does not give young people the conditions and opportunities to plan and manage their own lives. When we empower young people economically and socially when we provide them with suitable, decent and safe jobs without the threat of diversion, when we create the conditions that young people will no longer have to live hand in hand when they can afford their own lives, it will only then be shown in other forms of active citizenship. In addition, do not underestimate young people in your evaluation of political activities. The evidence of young people’s participation is not just that they wear ties and on behalf of young people, but, in fact, they sit on behalf of one another in either the world or the congregation. Let policy not forget the drunkenness of the social and political participation of young people when these young people next take the streets and demand their future. How will you expect them? With water cannons and stunners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u123	The text shall be given by the Members of the Parliament of the unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone again! In our parliamentary group, we will, of course, support the proposal to amend the law by giving young people a seat in the world of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. Far from solving all young people’s problems. Far from making empty promises to young people of participation, it is the fact that we will finally come to action by means of this law. Not only do we invite them to the meetings at the table where we have a good conversation, we will give them the right to make decisions with this law and, on the other hand, the responsibility in this decision. I agree with all the speakers that it is crucial for the pension system not only in our country, but in general that young people believe in it. They are the ones who must believe that the pension system will work in the future. I am pleased to say that I have received the unanimous support that the bill has received from the Committee and, as it appears, at least so far, at this meeting in the National Assembly. My colleague and I have entered into two marriages. Unfortunately, the second one who would give the young a voice in, if I say domestically, the health treasury, was not accepted, although the arguments are exactly the same. Those who work through the Student Service pay contributions both to health care and to the pension register. But Minister Anja Kopač Mrak and the Ministry of Labour seem to understand what the aim of our laws was, on the other hand, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc and the Ministry of Health obviously do not understand. I hope that we will also gather enough votes below to amend that other law and really show young people that if contributions are paid, they can make decisions about money being spent. Maybe just a word about why the student organization is involved in the law. Because only the Student Organization receives the concession from the student work. On the committee, the colleague also supported the amendment tabled by SD and Desus, but unfortunately we were too few and, as has already been said, this is the first step and it is possible, and after my assessment, that we should also do the following.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u125	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u126	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in the Republic of Slovenia implements a single compulsory pension and disability insurance. Under the current legislation, the institution manages a board of institutions that has 26 members, appointed by different stakeholders: employees, disabled persons, employers, Government, pensioners and employees of the institution. Since the temporary and occasional work of students and students has been included in pension and disability insurance since the adoption of Zujf and contributions to pension and disability insurance have been paid from the amount on the passport, the applicants consider that young people are entitled to membership in the world of the institution. The draft law thus provides that one representative of young people is hereby appointed to the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. As an additional reason for young people to be included in the world of the institution, the applicants also set up the desire of young people to engage in social dialogue as an equal partner. Today we face many challenges, especially the demographic challenge. To respond appropriately, the pension system, which operates in Slovenia on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, must be fair, transparent and also financially effective. As already pointed out in the White Paper on Pensions, a just and transparent system from the individual's point of view strengthens trust in the system, and this is reflected in greater motivation for paying contributions. In connection with this, the White Paper proposes that, in order to ensure adequate representation of individual stakeholders in the Board of the Institute, a member be appointed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The modern centre party is aware of the importance of the role of young societies and the importance of young people's role in co-forming policies. A raise of transparency and confidence in the work of the State can only be achieved through the establishment of an open and transparent system of cooperation with civil society, where young people play an important role and, above all, their political participation. Since students and students who do temporary and occasional work are obliged to contribute to the pension fund and because we believe that they must be actively involved in the formation of society, we believe that they should also be provided with a place in the world of the institution, so the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u127	The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for it, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be pleased to support the proposal of our two fellow Members that we also receive a representative in the world of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, since all young people from 1 February 2015 will be paid 15.5% to this cash register by the students working through the student work via the employer's travel vouchers. We believe that it is right that if they pay and make a contribution from their earnings, they also contribute to the share of this treasury, that they also have some words in the world of the institution that runs this cash register. Nevertheless, we would like to move on. The student organisation of Slovenia represents the students in particular, and the Youth Council of Slovenia is the one that represents all young people in Slovenia, which brings together different organisations, is also, I am sure, more numerous. It would also be good for the Youth Council of Slovenia to have a representative in this world. Unfortunately, this matter has not gone through, but I believe that when we try next time, the consensus will be so strong that there will be enough votes to implement it. However, when we talk about the world of this institution, it is a fundamental question on which a member who will be appointed there on a proposal from the Student Organisation of Slovenia will decide. He will attend the debates on the pension register, which, given the structure of our employees in Slovenia, will increasingly be under question and under pressure. We often listen to Mrs Anja Kopač Dark's Minister of Labour lowering unemployment. Then he flips the board a little bit or goes into another pierra trick to increase employment. Of course, this is important for the pension fund and even more important are the specific numbers. See how employment increases and what impact there is on the pension and disability allowance. In December 2008, 155 thousand people were employed in the public sector, January 2017 173 thousand people. Employees in the private sector in December 2008 562 thousand persons, January 2017 514 thousand persons. I think that this is very convenient, what impact and what pressure we can expect on the pension allowance in the future and the results of the work being carried out in the field of employment policy at the Ministry of Labour is not what they want us to represent. In this mandate, we have also talked a lot about leniency, jobs that do not provide some social and economic security. Look at the increase in the number of private people. In December 2008, there were little less than 57,000 privates, now nearly 70,000. What am I trying to say? The number of employees in the public sector is increasing and the number of private sector employees is increasing, not suggesting greater entrepreneurial potential, but the greatest incidence of criminal employment. And this will be the question that this young representative, who will also have to deal with there by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, will have to deal with. I hope that the call from this assembly, as it has been many times, and also from young people, because this is their role, you know that we were particularly critical of the work of the Student Organisation of Slovenia when we considered the proposal of Zujf to redistribute funds in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But here we support the matter, because this is the role of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, this is said to be their member in the world of this institution telling its opinion and trying to influence. Not a variety of financial frauds, campuses and so on, but to actively participate in what the future will be like for young people in our country. I hope that with this move today we are starting to have a trend, that we will one day also get to have our young representatives in the Economic and Social Council. As has already been said, we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u129	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues and others present! Based on the basic guidelines of Desus, which several times emphasises or stresses intergenerational respect and cooperation and the need for youth participation on issues affecting other generations, we have already supported the proposal for a law on the home working body. The fact is that young co-investors are also in the pension fund, which they will invest or invest in during their entire active working life, and that they can, once they have retired, receive the funds that future generations will then invest in them. Convinced only that not only pensioners and those before retirement, but also other employees and young people, i.e. students and students, must also be concerned about what will happen and what will happen with the funds invested in the pension fund for the purpose of using these funds at a certain age or at a time when former employees of earnings will no longer be able to survive and will no longer be available other means to maintain an adequate level of decent living for the retired. It is therefore appropriate for young people to contribute their voice and also bear their share of responsibility for older generations and their future when, through the bodies of the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, they decide on the operation of this over EUR 5 billion of the heavy budget. In the future, the current young generation will be most responsible for the creation of an intergenerational and patient society and for the development of systemic legal solutions that provide forms of assistance, social inclusion, long-term care and decent life for all pensioners and others who cannot survive alone, as well as for a more equitable and fair distribution of the benefits of economic growth among people. With regard to the whole composition of the institution's world, the debate could be opened even more broadly and as soon as it is not concluded that the presence of some groups in the world is too high, other too low. To begin a more even and logical participation by stakeholders, Members and Members of Desus, together with colleagues from the smallest coalition party, tried to fill the session with several representatives of young and also retired people. Unfortunately, however, there was not enough support from the remaining parliamentary groups. However, let us leave this for the next term, for the next government, for the debate under the announced pension reform, which will have to bring even more than in particular the extension of the age at the time of retirement and the difficulty of the conditions of retirement. It will be appropriate to respond to a number of relevant challenges of a long-lived society that have not yet been addressed by the competent ministry. In the Desus Group we will support this marriage for the most part. Mostly because we had hoped for a slightly different future PIC meeting to be more balanced in our assessment, and unfortunately there was no listening by the colleagues of the largest coalition party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u131	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the proposal for amendments and the addition of the civil servant to the general meeting after a reduced procedure. The draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were tabled by a group of 56 Members and Members, signed by Dr Mate T. Vatovci. In order to further explain the draft amendments and to supplement the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure that we have today have in some way come about in 2002 and have brought about a substantial change in the legislative process. At that time, the entire substantive part of the debate was moved from plenary to working bodies. And it is logical, of course, that in 15 years there is a lot to show for such concrete changes in practice, so I am talking about shortcomings or inadequacies. This has, in fact, been one of the main reasons why the Rules of Procedure have changed, in addition to entering the European Union. And also this novel, which we have today, fifth in a row, is due to some of the shortcomings and problems that are and are emerging in practice. The Rules of Procedure are, of course, a very sensitive act, and that is why we have taken the necessary time on the committee to prepare the amendments. We have examined the proposals within the working group and eventually condensed them into what is somehow a possible framework. These are, in particular, those proposals that are particularly needed and welcome at this time and represent today's changes. I'll mention a few key points. These amendments make it more clear that, in the event of a request for an emergency meeting of the Committee, it must also be convened and carried out no later than 14 days after the request is made. In practice, we have encountered problems several times, especially when the call occurred within a business deadline, but then such a meeting was interrupted or postponed, sometimes for an indefinite period of time. So we now provide that such a postponement or interruption occurs only with the approval or approval of the proposer. In practice, meetings were convened but then suspended. So I hope we can solve this problem. Another problem that has been repeatedly raised in the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly, which we are solving with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, is the possibility for the Committee to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Here, too, such a decision has been proposed in the beginning, before the debate, when there has not actually been a case at all, and such a law has flown out of the agenda quite quickly. With the amendments we are proposing, it is now clear that the working body can adopt such a decision only when the proposal for a law has been discussed. An important novelty is also the introduction of a so-called legislative trail to which the National Assembly was called already in 2014 by the Commission to prevent corruption. The legislative trail means that we will somehow have transparency over the drafting of legislation and also possible control over the lobbying of stakeholders. Following a new proposal for a law based on this amendment, it will have to contain information on whether external experts have participated in the preparation and on the amount of payment they have received for this purpose. This is at least, in my view, a very welcome and positive change. Next. There is also a clearer procedure for the decision to obtain an opinion on an individual issue by the President of the Republic. We have also had some problems here in practice, which we are now solving. The amendments also concern questions from the Members. The business provisions deal with the theoretical or practical dilemma that has long been put into practice by the fact that the procedural decision to hold the Minister's reply at the next meeting has been discussed in practice, we have given such explanations to the vote, but we are now amending this provision in the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to attach the essence of such a decision that a procedural decision cannot be explained by the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure. One part of the amendments concerns compliance with existing legislation, in particular amendments to the Act on the functioning between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union and other matters. Since the time is running out, I would like to thank, in particular, all those who participated in this process, Members who were members of the working group, their professional colleagues, the parliamentary groups, the professional services of the National Assembly and all those who have contributed in any way to the fact that we have come to, I think, very important changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u133	The proposal was addressed by the Rules of Procedure Commission as the parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor again to the President, Dr Mate T. Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u134	The Rules of Procedure Commission shall be held at its 7th urgent session. 6. 2017, as a parent working body, considered a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was examined by the National Assembly following a reduced procedure 2. 6. 2017 submitted by the Group of Members and Members, with my very first signature. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 98th session. 6. 2017 decided that the proposal for an act should be examined in a simplified manner. The members and members of the Commission received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments to Articles 23, 26, 43 and 58, as well as the opinion of the Council of 14 of the Council of Ministers. 6. 2017. The members of the Left Group, the Modern Centre Parties, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners and the unrelated Members have tabled proposals for amendments to Articles 16, 23, 26, 30, 43 and 58. In its supplementary explanation, the representative presented the reasons for the adoption, objectives and main solutions to the proposal. He said that the Rules of Procedure of the 2002 National Assembly had brought about a new regulation of the legislative procedure, which contained some substantial and very important changes. In particular, there was a greater emphasis on the work of the working bodies, as well as on better organisation and planning of the work of the National Assembly within its competence. During the period since its adoption and enforcement, there have been some uncertainties and inconsistencies in the application of the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, Slovenia has become a full Member State of the European Union and four novelties have been adopted so that the proposal is the fifth in a row. The proposal contains less complex amendments to the Rules of Procedure and therefore the proposed short-term treatment was also proposed. The proposed amendments and additions will ensure an even better organisation and more effective work of the National Assembly and further protection of members of the opposition, and will also convey less demanding harmonisation of the business provisions with the Cooperation Act between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, the Public Information Access Act and the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. To this end, Mr Mitja Brvar, President of the Council of State, presented the opinion of the Council of State, which unanimously supported the proposal, as the amendments and additions are intended to ensure better organisation and more effective work of the National Assembly. In the debate, the Members agreed unanimously that the working group on drafting amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure had done a great deal of important work. She met seven times and her work was purely of a substantive nature, and the Members who participated showed a great deal of maturity. They therefore welcomed the proposed act and announced their support for all proposals for amendments to the Commission and the proposal for a full act. This is particularly important because the Rules of Procedure is an act called a small constitution and, last but not least, has an impact on the lives of citizens. At the same time, they agreed that business provisions should not only be well written down but also respected in practice. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission adopted its amendments to Articles 16, 23, 26, 30, 43 and 58 with the necessary two-thirds majority of the votes cast by the Members present. Finally, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission voted on all articles of the draft act together and unanimously adopted them by the required two-thirds majority of the votes of all the Members present.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u135	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u136	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! There is already a fifth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, from which this year in 2002 the legislative procedure has been reordered to a new and substantial extent. The Rules of Procedure or a small constitution, as we call it in the language of the Yangon language, are the framework which, in addition to the Constitution and laws, lays down and regulates the work of our Members. Because of the changing environment, the need for change is constant, as Members also want our work to be more transparent, more carefully planned and efficient. There will undoubtedly be some contribution to this by amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which touch on the protection of opposition Members in requiring urgent meetings to be convened and their postponement, as well as the consideration of draft laws. In general, the so-called parliamentary practice had begun to be applied in opposition legislative proposals, so that before any debate had been held, it had already been concluded that the law was not suitable for further consideration. We are pleased that this area is finally regulated, as this has often been a tool primarily of coalitions and constant controversy, where it has all come to an end quickly before the content has even begun to be discussed. The advantage was given to the procedure and not to the content. The important novelty brought by the amendment of the Rules of Procedure also relates to the legislative trail where it will be necessary to indicate which external expert or legal person has participated in the preparation of the law and the amount of payment received by that person. We hope that this provision will bring more order and transparency and not more controversy. This time too, changes will not fully address all open issues and so-called parliamentary practices that have been established in certain areas of the legislative process. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by changes in the rules of procedure, as we feel that everything is moving towards a better place where Members are able to secure a two-thirds majority, which is also needed to change the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u137	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were adopted in 2002. At that time, the legislative process was substantially changed and it is perfectly logical that some shortcomings have also emerged after 15 years of application. We are therefore often witnessing a reference to parliamentary practice and some kind of agreement between the leaders of the parliamentary groups. The fact that the Rules of Procedure have some loopholes also makes it clear that the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly is not practically overturned, at which no bad practice of committee presidents would be exposed. We also often draw attention to the non-democratic grips that appear on the parental committees in the Levica Group. In particular, I am thinking here of restricting or even preventing the discussion of individual points and preventing the participation of the professional and interested public. Due to the problems and constraints that often confront us, particularly the opposition Members, we have also proposed appropriate solutions and proposals for amending the Rules of Procedure in Levica. We are pleased that quite a few of them are involved in the proposal that is before us today. The first of these concerns the opposition request for an emergency meeting. All too often, we were asked to convene an urgent meeting and then the meeting was suspended and postponed for an indefinite period of time without discussion. We have repeatedly warned the socialists about this practice, so it seems more than necessary to make it clear that such a meeting can be suspended or convened outside its 14-day deadline only in agreement with the applicant. While allowing a debate on the opposition request is a democratic minimum that is not intended to be affected, due to the creative interpretation of some committee presidents, it is obviously necessary to write it down. The second, rather common, disputed practice relates to the treatment of the law on the working body. In this mandate, it has somehow been intercepted that the opposition proposal for a law is rejected without discussion, the coalition majority simply suggests that the bill is not suitable for further consideration and that the law, without even being discussed, rejects it. And these are some jokes that shouldn't be happening in this house. We are also pleased here that the proposal to make it clear that such a decision can be taken only if a discussion has been held before this. The third most important solution is the enforcement of the so-called legislative trail. We have repeatedly pointed out that the degree of transparency in the adoption and drafting of government laws has been reduced. Such a way of action does not allow for the control of possible lobbying and allows legislative solutions to be adopted after the dictatorship of lobbyists and capital. The proposed amendment will require the Government to provide information on which external experts have participated in the drafting of the law and how much money they have received for this. This is certainly the first step towards a more transparent legislative process and a basis for monitoring the impact of lobbying. But we hope it's not the last. These are key solutions for us in Levica, brought by changes to the Rules of Procedure. We are pleased that they have been designed to take place within the framework of the working group, where both the parliamentary groups and the expert services of the National Assembly have been involved. The Socialists will certainly support these changes, but at this point I would point out that adoption of these changes does not solve the biggest problem. No provision of the Rules of Procedure shall prevent the Presidents from their abuses and violations. Therefore, we expect the President of the National Assembly to take action and to prevent the self-inflicted presence of the President on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u139	The text is addressed to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u140	Hello! In the National Assembly after 1993, which was in fact a kind of a turning point, given that at that time the National Assembly had for the first time received rules of procedure, which, although very quickly combined, was “spamp” and not nearly similar to what we have today, and it did not comply with all the norms and certain democratic rules that some developed democratic society has. It is true, however, that later, in 2002, the basis of today’s rules of procedure was actually established, and that later, with smaller cosmetic adjustments and requirements and harmonisations due to nominal requirements, the European Union and the transfer of certain requirements, changed. Today we are in fact before the first serious, greater change that brings root updates, which to date have been more or less or otherwise either respected through parliamentary practice or individual interpretations that have been afforded by individual parties and participants in the legislative process itself. Let me say that I really have to thank myself at this point in time, given that if today's Rules of Procedure are adopted, I am always happy when I see this at the time of the vote, but until then I am reserved, no matter what I hear today at the time of the announcements, I will be pleased mainly because what is expected today is that when the Rules of Procedure are adopted by a two-thirds majority, this will be an important step and a basis for the better functioning of the National Assembly. It was also interesting to hear a call from the president of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly is not all-powerful and, even after the new Rules of Procedure adopted, will not be able to regulate and require much of what is expected of him. However, we can make all of us together, Members and Members of Parliament, who are involved in the legislative process and, last but not least, also participate in the discussions themselves and in the procedural procedures to which we most often refer, in the rules of procedure. So, not from the President of the National Assembly, it is really up to all of us whether this Rules of Procedure will also have a higher political culture in the National Assembly. We'll take the rules of procedure into the SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u141	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you, President for your word. Those who accompany this meeting might say, "Here, finally, the Members are dealing with themselves." And all those who follow this would have a problem because we are all Members in agreement and unitedly announce our support for the changes to the Rules of Procedure, which I hope we will also confirm by a single, unanimous vote to amend the Rules of Procedure. As the predecessors have already said, the fact that since 2002 there have been quite a few events that have led us to change or regulate the rules of procedure: entry into the EU, a new information period, and, last but not least, the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the rules of procedure in practice. Therefore, solutions are only a set of viable proposals for the last 10 years, events in practice, poor implementation in practice, if you want, and also a variety of interpretations that the Presidents of the National Assembly, as well as the presidents of the home labour bodies, have enjoyed in the last 15 years. Even though I was alone in the working group from the so-called right political field, I would agree with those predecessors who claim that the work in this working group was very substantive, that there was no political prestige or any kind of croaking with possible support, because we all proposed something, we all might have expected an additional measure within the rules of procedure, we all may have missed some desire, but I like it very much that it was a very constructive debate that showed that Members, if we want to work together, we should also write down uniform criteria, standards. As has already been said, something is written, and another is usually in practice. In the SDS Group, we hope that this will no longer be the case in the future, so that we will understand both the leadership of the National Assembly with the President of the National Assembly, the presidents of the national working bodies and all Members and Members of Parliament, as well as further calls of the National Assembly, what the Rules of Procedure tell us that we will all act on it. That is why I may suggest that the well-respected leadership of the National Assembly should, as soon as possible, forward the new Rules of Procedure to all Members by electronic mail or in physical form, if we are not yet so modern as to perhaps mark for the beginning all the changes that this Rules of Procedure will experience, so that we all know what we have confirmed today, that it will not then happen, as it has done many times, to whether the Devil is in detail or not. This will send all Members and Members to seek abuses, to various interpretations, and we will be able to talk again in the next five, ten or fifteen years about abuses, parliamentary practice and so on. Or the authentic interpretations of the rules of procedure that we are adopting today will be sought. In the SDS Group, we hope for uniform support for the changes to the Rules of Procedure. We also hope that such leadership of the National Assembly, as well as of Members and Members, will come from whatever party we come to know by this Rules of Procedure as successfully as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u143	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, let me tell you the position of the Desus Group until the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will also start with that year 2002 when, under the leadership of Anton Anderlič, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were adopted, which in fact made it possible to work for the National Assembly to a large extent, and I am one of those who claim that the National Assembly has been operating perfectly so far with some misunderstandings that are always possible. Misuse of the rules of procedure is always possible. This depends on the specific people. So that the changes we are about to accept will not deter us from doing so. But the fact is, since then, somehow the National Assembly has been operating in accordance with some of the norms that lead to results in due course, if I may say so. These changes, which have already been highlighted by my colleagues before me, are neither coalition nor opposition, are the result of the consensus of all of us, so we must also express our appreciation by the Desus Group for all those who have or have participated in the changes and have actively participated under the leadership of Dr. Tašner Vatovac. We strongly support all the proposed changes in the Group of Members. Of course, some of these are very important in terms of coherence, as regards procedural issues, as regards the definition of vote on the questions sent, the two-thirds majority in constitutional changes have also been harmonised, and in particular some of you emphasise the traceability of the means for drafting legislative proposals. I think this is important, but even more important is the question of the traceability of funds, it is so-called outsourcing, and that this outsourcing with the Government is too much. This is a crucial or even more important question for me whether the Government has organs, has people, and I think it is too often used by external advisers. The key thing is that the Rules of Procedure allow Members and, above all, the entire Sectional Service of the National Assembly, which remains in the background many times, easier to operate. And so allow me to thank all the secretaries, secretaries, referees, professional colleagues, chefs, cleaners, security guards, janitors, receptors, in short, all those who work in the National Assembly so that the house can function or function normally. So thank you all very much, because this is the opportunity we're talking about. Of course, we promised ourselves a little more in the Desus Group. This is, of course, a matter of filling the Vice-President of the National Assembly. It is a matter of more rational treatment at working-body meetings, in particular with regard to public participation and time savings. It is a matter of more rational treatment of acts when one page, a new page and a newspaper article can already be a legislative proposal and then we are exhausted on the same topics all afternoon and days in committees and the National Assembly, instead of focusing on some fundamental issues. But well, that's just what a man wants. Personally, I have two sides to tell. For the first time, I am sorry that we have not come to know this, but I have been an instigator and have not been able to facilitate the relationship between the National Assembly and the Council of State, because the fourth stage of so-called reading would allow the State Council to veto not the whole of the law, but only one article or two articles, and this could facilitate the work of the National Assembly in the matter of eventual relief, i.e. in the event of a change to a better specific law. I also suggest that the National Assembly should not take into account the positions of the working bodies of the State Council. The working bodies of the State Council are corporately composed and are not plural, and they are only working bodies. But we should only deal with what the State Council decides. For there is much difference between the position of the State Council and that of the working body, or the total contrast. Nevertheless, the fact is that we have this small constitution, so I appeal to all Members and Members, regardless of our differing views, to the notion that we are acting with patience and with respect to each other. However, I think it is also time for us to adopt an ethical code, which we also owe somehow under international criteria. Members of Desus will accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u145	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much, President, for your word. After hearing all the opinions, I can finally say that we speak the same language in the National Assembly, which, I must say, I am finally happy to say, in all the fine beginnings. But I'd be glad if there was more. But today we have on the table the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which introduced a new concept of regulation of the legislative procedure that we are still applying today, but was adopted in 2002. A number of past mandates of the National Assembly have been gathered and amendments to the Rules of Procedure have been made to streamline or improve the organisation and functioning of MEPs and Members and the National Assembly in general. To this end, a special working group of representatives of the parliamentary groups has been set up in this mandate, which has combed most of the proposals mentioned and highlighted those for which there is a real possibility of receiving sufficient support, i.e. two-thirds support. The proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is quite extensive, as it amends more than 60 articles. In particular, amendments and additions deal more clearly with individual issues, in particular those which have been shown to require an accurate record to avoid different interpretations or different implementations in practice. Some of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure fill the legal void or any subordination of the provisions in force, which means that the interpretation of the President, interpretation of the business commission or interpretation of solutions based on previous parliamentary practice will not be essential for future commercial application in solving these cases. More clearly, it proposes the smooth functioning of the working body in the absence of its President, and also specifies exactly how long an urgent meeting should be held and in which cases such a meeting can be suspended or postponed. The new provision imposing upon the Government, as a bill-maker, to provide information on the possible external expert or legal person involved in the preparation of the legislative procedure, and the amount of payment received by the person for that purpose, will certainly contribute to greater transparency of the legislative procedure. Among the more important provisions of the proposed novels are the newly scheduled hearing procedure for a candidate or candidate for a member of the European Commission, the European Court of Auditors or a member of the Management Board of the Investment Bank in the National Assembly. However, the relevant corrections are more precisely regulated by both versions when the President of the Republic, on his own initiative or after the decision of the National Assembly, presents his opinion to Members and Members on an individual issue. Unfortunately, in this proposal for amendments and additions, we have not been able to resolve one of the more difficult issues relating to the constitutionally questionable cessation of the legislative procedure on the home labour body. We know that the Commission has in the past adopted an explanation for the Rules of Procedure that, in the event of the non-voting of the articles of the draft law on the home working body, the legislative procedure for such a proposal has not been completed and, consequently, the National Assembly does not vote on it in plenary. The latter, however, is controversial, since this means that Members and Members who are members of the home working body, the remaining Members and Members of Parliament take away the fundamental right to co-decision on a particular proposal. We will most likely face this issue in the future and, I believe, find an appropriate solution for it. Although the proposed business changes are welcome and are certainly useful and necessary for the further work of the National Assembly, this is only a first step and another step will have to be taken to follow. I am thinking about the proper and voluntary implementation of business regulations, where there will be no room for possible abuses and fraud. However, to all who have participated in the preparation and coordination of this draft Rules of Procedure, we thank you very much in the Group of Social Democrats. The proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u147	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended rules of procedure have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading. The decision on the proposal for amendments and the completion of the Rules of Procedure will be held today, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, within a half-hour of the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, it is on a defensive proposal for a law on the amendment of the law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia by a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 11 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u148	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are deciding on a bill to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship for individuals, both scientists, athletes, doctors and many others, who would benefit from their work to the Republic of Slovenia. A novelty is needed as the practice of implementing extraordinary naturalization has shown that a person cannot acquire Slovenian citizenship if he does not actually live in Slovenia for at least one year and has no regulated status as a foreigner. In other words, many top athletes, scientists and others who have proved to be extremely successful and could contribute to the development and reputation of the country, rather than in one year after the current legislation, citizenship cannot be granted. On the basis of the above, I decided, as the first person to sign the bill, to amend Article 13 of the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposal was supported by the Commission of the State Council, the Government, the coalition and, last but not least, the President of the Government himself. Let me explain what kind of supplement this is. Only the possibility is proposed for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to determine, when determining the reasons for exceptional naturalization, whether the reasons exist despite the life of the applicant for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. This is therefore the part that speaks about this one-year permanent stay in Slovenia and the abolition of this condition in Article 13 on extraordinary naturalization. To illustrate the case. If there were a shortage of doctors in the country, which is not least the real situation, or, if you want, top athletes who would perform for the Slovenian national team in various sports sectors, the country would grant citizenship without the condition of a one-year stay in the Republic of Slovenia because of its benefits and reputation. It has been heard and I believe that today, too, there will be a mass distribution of citizenship through the proposed supplementation. Here I must make it clear that every fear is too much, because any abuse of the Institute of Emergency Naturalization will be prevented, as both the authorities and the Government will still have to justify the state interest in each particular case. Again, despite the deletion of the one-year residence and foreign status, the other conditions for obtaining citizenship remain exactly the same. The procedure already in force remains unchanged. The Ministry of the Interior, which has the power to decide on the naturalisation of foreigners, shall, prior to the decision on the acquisition of citizenship under Article 13, be bound by the finding of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which has the power to determine whether or not the existence of a national interest. It shall then be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, having regard to its opinion on a specific area of the competent departmental authority, having regard to the extent to which the applicant exercises State interest. If I conclude, in no way will it be a matter of handing out citizens just to the best of my eyes. Finally, it must be made clear that the proposal does not only apply to athletes, as it is gladly stressed. In the last year, Article 13 of the Citizenship Act has also benefited individuals in the areas of economy, finance, culture, education, science, health, justice, transport, environment and space, which add value to our country and enhance the reputation and visibility of Slovenia in the world. But the number is still small. Last year, on the basis of exceptional naturalisation under the terms of Article 13, 35 people were granted citizenship, which is only 2,4 % of the allocated citizenship in 2016. Among them are 4 athletes, 13 scientists and 13 doctors. So it is the interest of the country, it is the reputation and greater visibility of the Republic of Slovenia, it is the contribution of individuals to the development of the country and it is the promotion of the reputation of our country both in the field of sport, science, health, economy and elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u149	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The Committee considered the draft law at its 36th meeting, on 28 June 2017. The representative of the proposer, Peter Wilfan, gave a supplementary explanation. The State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior stressed that the Government supports the bill as well as the amendment tabled. In a presentation of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the Legal and Legal Service said that the Act on Citizenship in Work, which relates to the acquisition of citizenship with so-called extraordinary naturalisation, was being complemented. Exceptional naturalisation in nature refers to exceptional cases in which citizenship is acquired under special facilitated conditions that reflect the special interest of the State and is possible only if the State benefits from it. The proposed solution to its content is an exceptional example of exceptional naturalisation, which relates to the applicable regulation of Article 13, paragraph 1, of the Law. In doing so, it provides for an exception to work relating to the condition of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and the condition of regulated foreign status. But all the other conditions are maintained. With regard to the criterion of free judgment, the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion drew attention to the appropriate design, taking into account in particular the constitutional case-law, as well as the internal coherence of the regulation of the emergency naturalisation procedure. The amendment tabled in Article 1 follows these comments. With regard to the amendment to 2. To Article, this is the case with respect to the implementing provision and it has pointed out that it is a derogation from the general 15-day deadline, which may be reduced for justified reasons. In the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State on State regulation, the Council of State drew attention to the issue of dual citizenship, since, in the case of Article 13 of the Law relating to naturalisation, there is no provision for leave from another nationality. The Commission asked how the conditions for the confirmation of exceptional achievements were defined. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained to them that the conditions were precisely defined in the Regulation on the criteria for determining the national interest in the admission to citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. Each ministry that proposes a candidate from its field must formally demonstrate these conditions or be defined in the role on which the Government then decides. As part of their explanation of vote, the coalition members agreed that it was high time to adopt such a novelty, as it was for those who had added value to the country, which would bring progress to the country and also promote the country. They highlighted the fact that extraordinary naturalisations represent an extremely small percentage of citizenship. The largest number of citizens thus acquired in 2016 was in the field of science and medicine. Members of the opposition objected to the bill and expressed the view that the regulation in force should be corrected by introducing the possibility of granting citizenship without restriction to persons with Slovenian roots living around the world. The representative of the Levica Group stressed that there is already a possibility of exceptional naturalisation with two conditions in the law. The bill introduces new exceptions to the exception. At the same time, we have increasingly restrictive legislation concerning asylum seekers, which may also be persons with a potential advantage for the country. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u151	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u152	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings, distinguished Members of Parliament, distinguished Members of Parliament! The purpose of the proposed law is to supplement, exceptionally, the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia with the exceptional naturalization of a person who does not live in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and who does not have an established status as a foreigner, if, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with this when it has previously obtained the opinion of the competent authority that, despite life abroad, the criteria for exceptional naturalisation are met. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the proposal for a law supplementing the law on citizenship submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Member, Mr Peter Wilfan, follows the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted in 2011 by the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at the time by the first-signed Member, Mr Anton Anderlic. In its opinion of August 2011, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported the proposed law. In the fact that the amendments tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups, which followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not object to the proposal of the Citizenship Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u153	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much, again. The proposal for a novel law on citizenship is the best proof of the duality of this government and the duality of this coalition. At first glance, from the outside, it seems to be some change in the government's attitude towards foreigners, that the policy of intolerance will be replaced by an open door policy to replace the policy of intimidation with the policy of equal opportunities for all. Well, they also did this in a way, but only for one specifically privileged person. The aim of the bill is to release the conditions for obtaining citizenship. We've heard that before. In addition to the general exception which allows the acquisition of citizenship for a person who lives with us for one year and has an established status as a foreigner, an exception to the exception is added to the law. Thus, citizenship will be obtained without residence in Slovenia and without the status of a foreigner. But of course, the change is not proposed because, for example, they are fleeing war and almost certainly dying for 14 months and are waiting for their status to be regulated. Because they don't have a chance at this time to create a normal life, say. Shares are not even a minimum amount of rights and aid, which would make life possible. No, that's not why. Those who have easily supported an unconstitutional law on foreigners, those who have justified their decision with concern for our people, are now proposing a change that will ensure that one particular American basketball player will be included in the Slovenian basketball team as soon as possible. This basketball player has the opportunity to acquire citizenship under the law in force. But since he has never lived in Slovenia, he does not meet the condition of a one-year stay. And how did the proposer justify the change? There's only 12 players in the American team. Because of this, hundreds or thousands of good American players unfortunately have no opportunity to play for their country and thus cannot play at European championships, so let us give them the opportunity to be members of the Slovenian national team, say, and to fulfil their potential. The fact that American players cannot participate in the European Championship is simply a bizarre or simply incomprehensible argument. After all, we also have in Slovenia, the exact number is 32 000 513 registered players and players who do not have the opportunity to participate in Slovenia, let alone the American team. And also this, as well as past governments, have drained the sports infrastructure with headless savings, and they have turned sports into luxury. A lot of families just can't afford it. One month ago, you took care of an even greater prophylacticity in sports. One month after the rejection of the proposal to increase pensions and minimum wages for all of the few privileged athletes, you re-acquired the allowance to the pension. Today, you are changing the citizenship law for a privileged individual, under the pretext of a wide range of people. In the Group of the Left, we have been defending, and this has been the policy of the open doors all along. We are against restricting the rights of foreigners and refugees, against cutting wire, against closing borders. We are also against amending legislation because of one particular case. Against the exclusive concern for the well-being of the already privileged and against the duplicity of the Government and the coalition. Finally, all those asylum seekers who stand and wait in this country can also be potential good athletes, good culturers, good scientists, good theatres and good citizens. The fact that it is a matter of duality and concern solely for privileged individuals is also clear evidence that the Government has only one day after the adoption of the Nationality Act on the domestic working body has adopted a new Law on Foreigners, the second in this mandate, which will further restrict their rights to those fleeing the war in such a way as to deprive them of what is left of them – the possibility of merging with their family. Thank you for your humanity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u155	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. Why is this proposal before us? Isn't the current arrangement good? Does it need to be changed? What's wrong with the arrangements so far? The proposal before us provides an exception to the exception and, it appears, because of one case, we are changing the law. What should be highlighted? I am still disturbed by the arbitrary decision on the exceptional contribution to the reputation and development of Slovenia. Arbitral decision-making is, in principle, not an occasion in any proceedings and we try to avoid it. The debates so far have shown why the law is adopted. I've already pointed out this to the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. It is that foreigners cannot meet all the conditions for extraordinary naturalization, and because they cannot compete for their country, then they compete for our smaller one, but by doing so we must take the place of one Slovenian, in which parents usually invest a lot and help to achieve some excellent results. The prize, the money, we know they're bad, is that he's going to an international competition. We're making that impossible for him now. The second thing that bothers me is that, in principle, the European institutions are anti-bipatides and polypatrids. Why? More citizens are able to avoid paying taxes and other inconveniences in the international space, so we are trying to avoid it. For all these reasons, the proposal and the urgency of the procedure do not convince me. Finally, may I ask, is it really that difficult to live in this beautiful Slovenia for one year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u157	The text shall be given by the Members of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you. In addition to regular naturalisation under Article 13 of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia, there is also an extraordinary naturalization which allows for the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship if it benefits the country for scientific, economic, cultural, national or similar reasons and others which are defined in the Regulation on criteria for ensuring national interest in the admission to citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. The basic reason for the amendment of the law was laid down in Article 13 above, since the present solution does not allow for the acquisition of citizenship after extraordinary naturalisation, despite the fact that, in the future, the applicant or the applicant for citizenship could make a significant contribution to the development, international reputation or recognition of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, many top athletes, scientists, artists and others who have proved to be extremely successful and could contribute to the development and reputation of the country, as early as one year ago, citizenship cannot be granted. The proposed supplement introduces a solution which would exceptionally enable the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia to a person who does not live in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and who does not have an established status as a foreigner, provided that the Government, at the request of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, agrees with the Government when it has previously obtained the opinion of the competent authority on whether, despite living abroad, the criteria set out in that Regulation are met. The proposed amendment determines when extraordinary naturalisation is possible without meeting the condition of actual one-year residence in the Republic of Slovenia and the condition of regulated foreign status. On the basis of extraordinary naturalisation, last year, 35 people received citizenship for scientific, economic, cultural and other reasons, which is 2.4% of all the citizens granted, and 25% of the year earlier. We therefore estimate that the proposed amendment to the law will not significantly increase the number of persons admitted to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia with exceptional naturalisation. The proposed addition will also prevent any abuse of the Institute of Emergency Naturalization, since both the department and the government will still have to justify national or national interest in each particular case. The proposed change is not limited only to sport, although it was originally designed precisely because of the possibility that athletes will be able to have easier access to the Slovenian passport in the future. At the end of May, after almost 20 years, a completely new law on sport was adopted, where this option was first mentioned. The law represents an important positive shift in the support and promotion of sport. This novelty, together with the Sport Act, will allow greater competitiveness mainly for Slovenian representatives in various sports sectors, and will also increase the visibility of Slovenia. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the recent performances of the Slovenian women's basketball team, which, while losing Serbia in the third round of the European Championship in Prague and falling out of the competition. Nevertheless, Slovenian women's basketball with a premiere performance at the European Championships has been included on Europe's basketball map. Slovenia has also achieved its greatest success with the help of American basketball player Shante Evans, who performed in the course of the season 2016/2017 in the uniform of the Celje first leaguer, with which she won the double Slovenian crown and the title of the champion of the international league WABA. In Philadelphia, a born basketball player became an MVP season and the final of the Slovenian national championship. It was fortunate to have acquired Slovenian citizenship just before the start of the European Championship, but it also warned itself how long this process had been and what complications had been caused by the legislation in force. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support these reasons as co-proposers of the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u159	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u160	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, once again a nice greeting! In the SDS Group, we have quite a few problems in supporting this law, and we will not support the law. First case. For three years we have been hearing about the systemic solutions of this government and today, once again, lex specialis, when we determine for one or an arbitrary determination of who will be a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and who will not, or as stated, be an exceptional example of extraordinary naturalization, an exceptional example of an extraordinary procedure. So much for the systematic functioning of this government. The change, which is very clear, is a one-year continuous stay in Slovenia for someone who is expected to give added value to the social, economic, scientific, cultural, sports or other development of Slovenia. And we're wondering what that added value is. Of course, in this law we all have one basketball player or one basketball player or one top sportsman who is a lot of idols, but this idol will fill the city in all likelihood of some young, prospective athlete who will have to wait another year to play at the idol. We are even more afraid because this law does not only speak of athletes who could, if it does happen, for example, in some football team, as it happens, if we just look at the last European championship, when there are no mice in certain representations, there are no surnames that are a tradition. The case of Switzerland when two Germans played one Swiss. Do we want such teams of Slovenia at the World Cup in basketball, volleyball or football? And even more so than we are afraid that foreign top athletes will fill the cities in the Slovenian national team, we are afraid that, because of the Government's issuance of a positive consensus on the basis of an organ, every single wide door will be open to all foreigners who, in the opinion of the Government, will be favored primarily by the left governments, meet the social, economic and other development of Slovenia. For once, our doors will be open to everyone for free judgment, even though we have heard today that this will not be the case. And when we hear that there will have to be some national interest in this extraordinary case of extraordinary naturalization, we are afraid again. If we only know what is the national interest in Slovenia and where this national interest does not ultimately lead us, then we can also be afraid of where the national interest will also lead us if this law is adopted in such a form. We believe that there is a possibility of added value for the country to give an extraordinary case of extraordinary naturalization, but there are far too many questions, risks and possible abuses of this law, that the doors of Slovenian citizenship will be open at once to a very wide, unfortunately also a very poor choice of people who will have a free assessment of the government and the professional body, if they are true. And last but not least, a respected government, how many meetings of the National Assembly will still have to listen to your promises of systemic solutions, but you will come with the support of such lex specialisms as you will obviously support today. Decide whether you will follow systemic solutions or at the end of the term of office of the National Assembly we will carry only some partial interests, depending on where we come from, in terms of the areas we cover, or in terms of other matters. The time is yet another year before the elections to come to fruition and support only very professional and systemic solutions. That's not what this law does.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u161	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you again for the word and a nice greeting to everyone! As I have already mentioned on behalf of the applicants, the addition of the Nationality Act is of particular benefit to the Republic of Slovenia, its reputation, development and visibility in the world. It is true that the proposal would facilitate the acquisition of citizenship for individuals from different fields, such as culture, science, health, the economy, sport and others who lack the highest level of human resources in our country. This is also the main objective of this novel law. We have already met with this idea in the past, in 2011, when the legislative process was similar to that of the law, it was also supported by the then government, but unfortunately because of early elections, it fell into the water. I am pleased that the proposal supports the general public, supported by the Commission of the State Council, the Government, the coalition, and, as I have already said, by the President of the Government himself. In order to supplement Article 13 on citizenship, we have decided primarily on the grounds of warnings from practice, since the fact is that in the decision-making process on the definition of nationality it was difficult to prove the conditions of one-year residence, and it should be pointed out that all the other conditions already in force for obtaining citizenship on the basis of extraordinary naturalisation remain exactly the same. Let's see what that looks like in the field of sports. The situation in sport has changed significantly in recent years, as there have been no foreign players in Slovenian clubs for a very long time. Only few teams compete in elite European competitions, but above all they do not have the money to come up with high-quality reinforcements. Therefore, they cannot even obtain exceptional individuals for the Slovenian national team to meet all the conditions set out in the present Article 13. Of course, this does not mean that many naturalised players would play for the Slovenian team of individual sports disciplines. The rules here are very clear. How many naturalized athletes can play for the team are determined by the rules of international sports associations, which differ from one another, but are mostly, with few exceptions, very restrictive. In basketball, for example, one naturalised player can play for individual team members in large competitions. Complementing the law also applies to all other areas such as health, economy, culture, science, art and others. The provision is therefore applicable and applicable where the Government considers that there is a lack of a certain profile of top-level experts from the above-mentioned areas. There aren't many cases like this. As I have already said on behalf of the applicants, only 2.4% of all citizens were granted in this way, including four athletes, 13 scientists and 13 doctors. Everyone has acquired Slovenian citizenship, because this means a significant added value for the country in a particular area and a greater visibility and reputation of Slovenia in the world. It was also heard on the Committee that, at the possible addition of Article 13 of the Citizenship Act, this would be the case. That is what we have heard today, or at home, on a chorus. This is not the case, of course, as any abuse of the Institute of Extreme Naturalization will be prevented. Both the authorities and the Government will still have to base their national interest on each particular case. Despite the deletion of the condition of one-year residence and foreign status, the other conditions for obtaining citizenship remain exactly the same. The procedure already in force remains unchanged. So there's no such thing as automaticism. In the debate on the Committee and even today, we have also heard a comparison with refugees or migrants, when it comes to this proposal for certain privileges, elites and the like. Let me once again point out that these are exceptional individuals of interest to our country. It offers them citizenship first and then, if they agree, even for very clear reasons. In the future, however, if some top-notch expert, such as a scientist, artist or athlete, appears among migrants or refugees, he will also be able to acquire Slovenian citizenship under amended Article 13. Of course, if there is a desire or need for such a profile of an expert in the country, it will be proposed by one of the institutions, such as the University Clinical Centre, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Health, the Olympic Committees and so on. The reasons for supporting this amendment of the Citizenship Act are therefore more than enough and we will support this proposal in Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u163	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. In the position of the Group of Social Democrats on the amendment of the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, which Mr Wilfan has prepared and, together with fellow Members of Parliament, put into the legislative procedure, I would like to say that we do not oppose the Social Democrats. However, given that there was no broader debate on the working body and that the legislative procedure had been laid down in the course of business, I would like to make a few words to this proposal even today. When we talk about citizenship, we tend to think not only of the legal affiliation of a country, but we see it as belonging to a nation, a culture, a language, and we could still list it. We were born in Slovenia and acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia automatically. We also know the acquisition of citizenship by naturalization, on a regular and extraordinary basis. Exceptional naturalisation is also the subject of this amendment of the law, at the point which eliminates the condition of at least one year of continuous actual residence in the Republic of Slovenia. The applicant considers that the removal of this condition will not allow for the abuse of the Institute of Extreme Naturalization, since in any particular case the authorities and the Government will have to justify the State interest. It was also pointed out that the proposed solution to exceptional naturalization is intended for persons who, through their activities, make an outstanding contribution not only to the sports reputation and visibility of Slovenia in the international space but also to the social, economic, scientific, cultural or other development of Slovenia. However, if we take a closer look at the tables presented in the draft law, we can see that between 2007 and 2016, 3 000 679 citizens were granted after extraordinary naturalization and 12 thousand 128 citizens after regular naturalization, representing less than 1% of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. The most extraordinary naturalisations during that period were in 2008, i.e. 631 citizens. During 2009-2011, the number of citizens was around 540 at the annual level. In addition to national reasons, the highest interest in extreme naturalisation in the field of health was 169 citizens during this decade. While in the field of sport this interest was 4 times lower – 41 citizens. For sport reasons, science is ahead of us because there have been extraordinary naturalizations 79. Social Democrats are estimated that the number of citizens acquired after extraordinary naturalisation when the condition of a one-year actual stay in the Republic of Slovenia is deleted will not increase significantly in the coming years. As I said in the introduction, we will support the proposal for a new law in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u165	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u166	“Citizenship represents the legal relationship between an individual as a citizen and a state. It must be based on a genuine link that points to a link with the country of which the individual is a citizen. The strongest and most common form of this genuine link is the fact that an individual has been permanently resident in the territory of the country that he is asking for citizenship. This is supposed to adapt to the environment where he lives so that the new country will accept as its home country and adopt its constitutional and legal order in the broadest sense.” Such a position was taken by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia when it assessed the condition of stay in the ordinary naturalisation process. Today we are talking about extraordinary naturalisation, that is, exceptional cases where it is possible to acquire Slovenian citizenship, even if the applicant does not meet all the legal conditions, if there is a particular interest of the State. In fact, we are talking today about an extraordinary case of extraordinary naturalization. It is said that an exception to an already legal exception should make it easier for applicants to acquire our citizenship. The consent of the Government will be sufficient at the time of obtaining the opinion of the competent authority, but it will not be necessary for the applicant to live in Slovenia and to have the status of a foreigner regulated. It will only be sufficient for the Government to conclude that the applicant has made an outstanding contribution to the development of the Republic of Slovenia or its international reputation or visibility. National interest will thus be the main criterion for citizenship. In New Slovenia, we are concerned about the ease with which the proposer tries to enable the acquisition of citizenship even to persons who do not live in Slovenia at all or who do not have an established status as a foreigner, but have the means to support and settle their tax obligations and do not pose a threat to public order, security and defence of the country. In the light of the above, the Government will, in its assessment, decide mainly on the basis of the identification of the exceptional achievements of applicants in the scientific, economic or cultural field. In doing so, we wonder why such exemptions do not apply equally to all applicants who meet the conditions for exceptional naturalisation. We know cases where applicants have been living in Slovenia for many years and have a regulated status as a foreigner, and their students in international competitions achieve gold awards and awards, so their work in Slovenia has outstanding achievements in individual areas of work. But watch out! Since it is music professors, it is an area where the number of our professors is satisfactory, our country has not given them citizenship, despite the fact that our country's name has been brought to the world. We have heard before how many registered basketball players we have in Slovenia. There's still something wrong with this proposal. The Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, inter alia, for the acquisition of citizenship by naturalisation, expressly provides that the applicant shall be exempt from his or her current nationality or shall show that he or she will obtain it if he or she is admitted to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a condition for extraordinary naturalisation is not laid down and even less for the extraordinary naturalization that we are talking about today. This means that a person who gains our citizenship can also have dual citizenship, regardless of how long he will actually live in Slovenia, if ever he will. Let us not forget that citizenship is also subject to the system of rights and duties of both the State and the citizen, and that most countries, in order to prevent dual citizenship, prescribe that their citizenship be denied citizenship or that their citizenship cease automatically if their national voluntarily accepts foreign citizenship at his own request. Christian Democrats are convinced that such a condition should also apply to the acquisition of citizenship with exceptional naturalisation. In the light of the proposal in New Slovenia, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u167	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Slovenian National Holding Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members, with Mr Jan Škobernet, first signed. At its 40th meeting, on 29 June 2017, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law as a work force of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first word is "Messenger Group of Unaffiliated Members", for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u168	Nice greetings for the third time, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! In fact, there is only an explanation for the amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which has been tabled. One of the major changes proposed is that in addition to the current members, representatives of workers will be voted on in the Supervisory Board. In our parliamentary group, we do not object in any way to the fact that workers co-manage Slovenian companies, but the fact is that the Slovenian State Holding is a somewhat specific undertaking and it would be difficult for us to identify those representatives of workers who could equally represent all the interests that Slovenian State Holding should take into account in its work. And there's something else to be warned about. Already in today's law, today's regulation of the Slovenian State Holding is really functioning that the consultative body, the Economic and Social Committee, and the hand on the heart, is supposed to work, as has been said on the Committee on Finance, but, however, personally, not one serious concrete comment from this world has been made in public, where all the trade unions have their representatives. Let's say it was about selling companies, let's say it was about workers' rights, for example, in Luka Koper. It's a shame this committee doesn't do its job better. As for the administration of state property, I do not think that this government and this coalition have the happiest hands. In fact, not a single month of supervision by the Slovenian State Holding Board is perfect. You've barely agreed and added two members, you've already missed the fifth member again. The management of the Slovenian state holding company has been incomplete for more than a year. But things will obviously not change under this government, and the new government will also have to put the management of state property back on the right track. Today, however, it is just an explanation or definition of the bill, as I have said, and there is no vote anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u169	Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! As it is said, the SD Group of Members of the SD Group tabled in the National Assembly a proposal for amendments to the law, by which it intended to extend the number of members of the Slovenian State Holding Board in particular. They suggested that in the SDH supervisory council, a representative of the employees of the companies with which SDH operated by majority, a representative of the unions, a representative of the Association of Retired Associations and a representative of the Youth Council would also be. As regards this proposal, it should be noted that SDH is formed as a holding company and it is characteristic of this company that it is set up to be managed by that company by participation in other legally independent companies. The activities of the holding company are usually in particular the financing and management of companies or the management of capital investments. The management of SDH must thus be professional and without the influence of stakeholders. The basic purpose of the SDH Act is to separate the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State. It should therefore be mentioned that members of the SDH authorities must, in the performance of their duties, deal with the care of a conscientious and fair economic operator. They must act solely in the interest of SDH and in the management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia in its sole interest. Thus, the existing law in Article 7 lays down the principle of independence, which states that SDH and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of national authorities or third parties in the performance of their duties and must act independently and independently in accordance with that law. Therefore, representatives of interest groups cannot be appointed in SDH, which manages the assets of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we do not object to the participation of representatives of employers and employees in the Economic and Social Council and the representative of the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia and the Youth Council of Slovenia in the Supervisory Board of the Demographic Fund. The core of the Demographic Fund is the accumulation of funds to co-finance the pension fund, but it will mostly manage portfolio investments. As a result, there is no conflict of interest, such as SDH, where interest groups could influence the management of companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This conflict in the Demographic Fund will not occur because it will be managed primarily by portfolio investments or investments in which it will hold a maximum of 5% equity. With regard to the other solutions to the law, it should be said that the proposal on the basis of which the SDH administration should prepare an operational sales plan before selling the capital investment and obtain the supervisory board's approval for it is contained in the already applicable provisions of the SDH Act. Pursuant to Article 30 of this Law, the SDH administration shall adopt an annual investment management plan on the basis of the strategy adopted. It sets out detailed SDH objectives in the management of individual investments and measures and guidelines to achieve its objectives. It is also necessary to clarify the procedure and impact of its adoption in the same way as in the management policy of the annual plan. The annual plan to agree with the SDH Supervisory Board on a proposal from the SDH Administration. After obtaining the SDH Supervisory Board's consent, the Administration must send an annual plan to the Ministry of Finance, which shall be forwarded to the Government in agreement. In this case, too, we are dealing with an existing act which regulates the same content substantially more than the proposed act and whose content reflects a significantly higher level of consensus of the wider range of participants, the SDH administration, the Supervisory Board, the Ministry of Finance and the entire government. For all these reasons, we opposed the amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which ended on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u171	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u172	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! A proposal to amend the Slovenian State Holding Act was tabled by the Coalition Party of Social Democrats in the National Assembly and the Government did not endorse or oppose this proposal. This clearly shows that the current coalition does not have a unified position and a unified view on the management of state assets. More. The consequences of this unanimity management and the unanimity of opinion are mainly due to the poor results of companies managed by the Slovenian State holding company. And the consequences are borne by all taxpayers. We did not support the draft amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that the solutions proposed by the Social Democrats are not in a positive context and would not help to better manage state property. One part of the solutions proposed by the Social Democrats is that we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it should be included in the State Property Management Strategy and not in the law itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to the bill to allow the composition of the Supervisory Council to return to its original position, as was the case with the initial adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act. This means that one representative in the Supervisory Board would also have an opposition whose member would be voted on by the Commission on the supervision of public finances. Events surrounding the sale of Nova Ljubljanska banka, events surrounding the sale of Telekom, events around the members of the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board, events around the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Company, events around Luka Koper clearly indicate that the management of state assets under this government is the worst in the history of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the coalition should be unified in governance and bring to the National Assembly a change to the strategy on the management of state holding and management of Slovenian companies, as pointed out by the previous management of the Slovenian State Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u173	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All due respect! We were in the Desus Group on the proposal for a bill of shared opinion. With some moves from the Slovenian state holding company lately, we are really not satisfied. It is also true that confidence in the public in the owner of state property is rather low. Some of us therefore see solutions in extending the supervisory council and extending their powers, but on the other hand, we wonder if it is not the solution to the appointment of capable personnel. The problem that the red thread presented for us at the time of our consideration of the novel was whether it really made sense for the Governing Council to determine the greater powers it has. In our view, the Novela granted quite too much authority to the Supervisory Board, as it eventually fell out as if the Supervisory Board were taking on some of the key tasks of the administration. However, his role is to oversee the administration, and in this case he would simply control himself in a simplified manner. The fact is that this would seriously change the fugitive relationship between the Supervisory Board and the Administration, as set out in the Company Act. In a broader context, most of us think that the Supervisory Board should be composed of members who complement each other in terms of expertise and competence. It should be appointed experts in finance, corporate governance, property management and corporate law. Only in this way will companies in state growth prosper, so that employees' contributions will be paid, so that they can take care of social welfare, which is the most important thing for us in the Desus Group. There's a lot of talk about how SDH only serves to sell all state assets, to be sold out and sold out and so forth. Let us ask ourselves how much of this state property has been actually sold recently. Believe me, all the alarms would be ringing in Desus if that were the case. We believe that the proposal for a law does not constitute an improvement of the existing law. The ever-changing of the authorities of the national asset manager and their powers, even when it comes to such root interventions, is first part of the problem as part of the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u175	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is really nice to hear the views of the law that is proposed because they somehow follow the line of the following logic. We are dissatisfied with the management of state property, the authorities are not staffed by the relevant people, we do not respond to the impression that sales are under the table and are not transparent, we support changes that will ensure sustainability, solidarity and the wider social impact of the management of state property, but we will not support changes to the law that would allow this. Unfortunately, the whole treatment of the law was carried out only on the issue of changing membership in the SDH supervisory council. In fact, a law that would not be passed by the National Assembly, since it had already concluded its consideration on the Committee, could bring about a much more important provision. One of these, for example, is that we should set ourselves the goals that we want to achieve by selling. Prices and others. If the process of compulsory negotiations, which are not now mandatory, were to be completed, the Supervisory Board would be obliged to verify whether the administration has reached these objectives in the national, national and, if you wish, in the interests of taxpayers. And if the objectives set forward for the sale of state property are not achieved, then there are no reasons for the sale of state silver, which we do not have unlimited, the administration has not achieved. But this is obviously completely illogical, and this law does not deserve support at this point. I will borrow arguments in my views the next time we find out why someone is not satisfied with management and possible sales. The fact that we have proposed in law that their representative in SDH be also employed in companies managed by SDH is almost blasphemous. Holy workers have their place in our legislation. If we take into account consistently what the State has already established and recorded, we should have not one representative, but three. And yet we find that in the case of SDH, the representation of workers who work and create is completely superfluous. In order to increase the representation of young people and pensioners in the management of 12 billion state assets, it is indeed a sad fact that we must find out when this law is concluded. The fact that the city can have a financial corporate interest in the administration, but not by any means trade unions and employees, is not funny, but it is tragic. And the fact that all laws that want more transparency, more public participation and democraticism in the management of common state property end in the same way without support, because this is inconsistent with the logic of corporate governance is in this, preliminary and will obviously still be given a fact in any of the Council's calls. And it is precisely a mistake to reject something that is completely logical and sound, starting with the sale or management of 12 billion state assets and checking whether the goals have been met. And if they're not realized, for example, by plastic word, you don't sell Telekom, or it's completely unhealthy, then you're just going to create your own image. We Social Democrats have tried to compromise this proposal in relation to what the United Left has tried to implement through its initiative in one of the previous attempts. And we were looking for a compromise that would go closer to the logic of corporate governance, so that this would be more acceptable for this assembly. And it's not, and it doesn't appear to be. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u177	Mr Jože Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we are dissatisfied with the management of state property. We're actually here, I hope to say, united, all of us 90. We are not satisfied with the management of state property. And where is the solution? The solution is in privatisation. In New Slovenia we understand the privatisation process as a process of finding responsible or more responsible owners. Privatisation is not a sale. We swear so much on state property, and we don't see that, in the case of banks, we have a state bank, a New Ljubljana Bank, in which we've been throwing money for several years, we've thrown billions into this bank, into this bank. On the other hand, we have private banks, and even more, in foreign ownership, and these help our state budget and fill the state budget through our tax legislation. But some apparently don't understand it yet. Anything else that's not a solution is a waste of time. Although the proposal for a novel of the Slovenian State Holding Act brings a number of changes. The first is the introduction of public participation in the preparation of changes and the completion of country capital investment management strategies. Well, as far as strategy's concerned, there's only one sentence. This current governance strategy is not in line with the acquis of the European Union, to which we have sworn in in recent days. Christian Democrats, as a priority issue of the strategy, see in particular the implementation of procedures to find new responsible owners in line with this strategy. Unfortunately, however, procedures for the withdrawal of the state from the economy are taking place too slowly. This is very apparent in at least two cases, namely Telekom and Nova Ljubljanska Banka. While the level of country involvement in the economy in Slovenia is among the highest in Europe, which hampers development and economic growth, it is clear that some personal ATMs still do not wish to give up. Of course there's no cover for ATMs. In general, we see as an attempt to obstruct the country's withdrawal from the economy a proposal for a mandatory agreement of the SDH Supervisory Board on the sale of investments above a certain value, to be determined by the SDH Statute. The bill also extends the SDH Supervisory Board to 10 members under the so-called principle of equal representation of capital and labour. This would also include representatives of trade unions appointed by the proposer as a representative of the active generation, as well as a representative of the Alliance of Retired Associations and a representative of the Youth Council of Slovenia. In addition, the law provides for arrangements whereby employees in strategic and important companies elect one member of the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding. The task of trade unions is not, in our understanding, to control the management of state property in the supervisory world. We can already say that some unions in Slovenia have extraordinary power, because without their consent a number of decisions by the Government or the National Assembly are simply not possible. The proposed extension of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding in our opinion does not bring any added value and does not follow the principles of corporate governance. We have not supported the law and, in some way, we appeal to the Government again, until a few months before the end of the mandate, although there is very little effective time, that at least as far as the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is concerned, does everything in the interests of this country, these citizens. So that we do not face a new bank hole in time, which we will likely have to settle again or pay taxpayers. That's enough and that's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u179	Following is the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. We will get responsible government property management by not leaving more than €10 billion in state-owned enterprises at SDH to the government and state managers, but by deciding what should happen to these companies, what the governance strategy of state-owned enterprises and who should control them, by involving those who are truly in the interest of the long-term development of enterprises, i.e. employees. We have already proposed two solutions in this mandate in Levika, which would also put this into practice. February 2015 and October 2016. In the first attempt, we proposed that, in a similar way as in the Slovenian Railway Holding, the Slovenian State Holding Board would be given a joint council of employees who would appoint half of the Supervisory Board to the Supervisory Board, 5 members of the Supervisory Board. This proposal was rejected by the coalition, and we have tried again. In October 2016, we proposed that five members, that is to say half of the Supervisory Board, should be appointed trade unions. This proposal was also rejected by the coalition, including the Social Democrats who have now drafted the proposal, with arguments that the governance of state-owned enterprises should be abandoned to the Government and state managers. How these people run these companies, we see them, and we also know who is sitting there and what competences they have. That is why we insist that workers' representatives should be brought to the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding, and this is also why we support the proposal of the Social Democrats. Their proposal is compromised, too compromised, because before the representatives of workers and civil society were appointed to the Supervisory Council, the candidates should first be approved by the Government and then by the coalition in Parliament. With the government and coalition as we have it, we may well be concerned in Levica that in the end we would not get the five supervisors appointed by the Government and the four supervisors appointed by the unions and civil society, but that we would actually have nine supervisors in the supervisory board called the Government. We should be in two hours, both in government and in coalition, before we get there. But since the laws are not only signed for one term, we allow the possibility that the coalition will be better in the next term and that someone who would not be a neoliberal, who opposes privatisation, and who would not look quietly at the looting of this or that government by state companies would come through those filters. This option is allowed in this law and we will therefore support the law in the United Left and continue to seek to obtain representatives of employees in supervisory councils not only at the level of the Slovenian State Holding, but in the supervisory councils of all companies in this country, headed by companies owned by the State. These companies should be an example to all others of how economic democracy is applied, how property is treated responsibly, and how it is exemplaryly taken care of the standards, labour rights and position of employees. This is our basic programming platform. As it is said, we will support this law, and in the future we will continue to strive for such a solution to be applied everywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u181	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure for the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u182	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 3, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 12. Seven. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 9. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 22. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 13. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 17. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 16. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and 17 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 9, 13 and 16 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Left Party will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, chairman. We'll support this marriage in the left hand side. But not for any formal reason, because our amendment was adopted, but because of the content that comes to this and is also the subject of this law in general. This law assumes the powers of supervision or specialisation of the Medical Chamber and subordinates them to the Ministry, i.e. the public elected body. This is important because there is a severe staffing shortage of specialists in our public health system, and this has happened on the watch of the Medical Chamber, which, as a cecho, is a housing organization that is more interested in self-recruitment than anything else, has not organised well or deliberately caused a shortage of certain medical profiles, so that this medical part of the elite could be in a better position when it was necessary to negotiate for such or other privileges. This move towards the public is certainly a good thing. It is also a good thing to transfer the financing of specialisations from the Institute of Health Insurance to the state budget. This account will allow the services to be better supported by €80 million by 2020, which will also translate into shorter waiting periods. Then there are other good solutions, such as the secondaryist, and the one that we have also proposed to the socialists with our amendment, so that someone who has already entered a specialization may, however, reply that this specialization does not correspond to him, change their specialisation to public costs. So if we pull some analogy with the college space, there's a possibility of another entry. As regards reservations and misinformation that we have been able to detect in the public, I can say that these are deeply motivated by the medical and insurance lobby and do not drink water in practice. This law is solid. The Socialists will support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u184	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of the Cold in Agricultural Production between 21 and 22 April 2017 following an urgent procedure We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 12. Seven. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the SDS Group to Articles 17 and 19 under Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, this amendment will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 13 has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 17 and 19 under Article 1 have become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 19(2). We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 1. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance following a reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 1. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Amendments and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the Draft Amendment and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled in the second reading to the supplementary proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for amendments and the completion of the Rules of Procedure would be inconsistent. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, two thirds of the Members present must vote in order to adopt amendments and to supplement the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 24. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
