ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic from 6.30 p.m., Mr Jernej Vrtovec from 20:00 p.m., Dr Milan Brglez from 13.15 p.m. and Mr Franc Laj. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on value added tax within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. The bill is at the 35th session of the 8th session. 3. 2017 treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act has been introduced into the procedure of the National Assembly by Mr Andrej Chuš, with whom he wanted the rate of value added tax to be restored to the previous situation. This is from an upper level of 22 % to 20 % and from a lower rate of 9,5 % to 8,5 %. With regard to the existing value added tax regime, it should be pointed out that, as a permanent measure, VAT raising was adopted under the government of Alenka Bratušek, which committed itself in May 2013 to being a permanent measure. Of course, we understand the sustainability of the measure because the former government has increased the country's debt and created a greater deficit due to the resolution of the banking system. This government is aware that due to the prevailing situation, public debt and deficits must be reduced in the manner envisaged in 2013, i.e. by a permanent increase in the VAT rate. In any case, we can assess that, due to respect for the commitments made, we cannot cancel this and that the VAT fallout cannot be replaced. With VAT rates rising in mid-2013, the then government estimated VAT revenues to increase by EUR 250 million per year, of which EUR 100 million per year 2013 and an additional EUR 150 million. The implementation, however, confirmed the correctness of the assessment and the revenues increased further over the last three years due to measures taken to reduce the volume of the grey economy. As of 2016, around EUR 300 million of revenue was provided annually, following the main objectives of the Slovenian public financial policy for 2016 and 2017 set by that government in the 2015 stability programme and taking into account the part of the measures also in the adopted budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. However, the government will follow the objective of measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the business environment in order to influence sustainable economic growth and increase the global competitiveness of Slovenia on the one hand and to ensure public financial consolidation in order to gradually achieve the structural balance of public finances. This means that, from the point of view of appropriate tax policy, it will focus only on the preparation of measures that can now be implemented and will have a lasting impact on the structure and effectiveness of public finances, which means only restructuring tax burdens. Therefore, despite the good results of the recovery of economic growth over the past two years, which is encouraging for further steps, it is important to take into account that the government insists on the road map, which is to balance the public finances of the whole country by 2020 in the medium term. It is only in this way that the government can fulfil its commitments both to public debt management and to the budgetary deficit under the Stability and Growth Pact. This means that too high expectations on the part of reducing tax burdens could quickly eliminate this optimism, and thus the possibility of a broad social agreement for urgent changes. With regard to consumer promotion, however, it should be noted that the reduction in VAT rates does not yet mean that the final prices of goods and services would be reduced proportionally. With regard to promoting consumption, it is worth mentioning that we have approached this through a mini-tax reform, which has also led to an increase of EUR 300 in general relief from the current 10 000 866.37 to 11 000 166.37, as well as the exemption of part of the salary for business performance from the tax base of the employment relationship, and in part by changing the income scale for employees over 1.6 times the average wage. For all of this, the SMC Group will vote against the solutions proposed by this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u3	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The value added tax is the type of tax paid at the final stage by consumers or final consumers. In other words, this tax is passed on from producer, wholesale trade, retail trade and so on to final consumer. In other words, it is a characteristic of indirect taxes. These taxes are also characterized by the fact that he is regressive, which means that those with lower incomes pay more taxes on their income. If someone has thousands of euros in income and spends everything, he will probably pay around 170 euros in taxes at the calculated rate if he buys all the goods at the general level. This is mathematics, which is probably also known by the Ministry of Finance and everyone else. However, those who have more, say, 2 000 euros to spend, will actually pay less tax on their income. Which means this tax is unsocial. The weaker, the less wealthy pay it more depending on their income. Given that the rate was set at 20% and was then increased to 22% in the time of the economic crisis, it finally cemented this rate to say so, by the law of the Modern Centre Party, or this coalition, Desus and SD, at the same time, definitively, it was for a two-year period, we believe and support lower tax rates in the Slovenian Democratic Party, including lower value added tax rates. Why? After all, a lower level of value added also affects competitiveness and consumption. Not only because maybe, I agree here that there may be a price decrease, but there may also be no price cuts. However, geographically Slovenia is a small country. And if it is a geographically small country, Austria, for example, has a general rate of 20%, which means that already due to the level itself, prices are lower on the same assumption for 2% points or if we have 22 in Slovenia and 20 in Slovenia, under the same conditions, the rate is lower. This also affects consumption and competitiveness. Not only will prices be reduced and there will be trade, manufacturers and so on a space where they can create more competitive prices, but also because there will be more consumption, it is said, we will probably also get certain consumers from border areas, because these marginal purchases have been known in Slovenia for many decades. In these words, I would like to argue that there are all the arguments for reducing the rate: the social aspect, the competitive aspect, the economic aspect, the greater competitiveness and, lastly, the fiscal aspect do not need to be reduced. Which, of course, means that we will satisfy the Brussels administration by having a flat budget, a fiscal rule and so on. These are, of course, other discussions now. We will therefore support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u5	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! Very briefly. Explain first. The current government or coalition, if you want, has not increased the value added tax rate, nor is it intended in the future. Fixed rates have been in force for some time now in accordance with budgetary documents, as agreed in 2013. So nothing new, nothing wobbly, and probably nothing funny. The move that the proposal came with is nothing more than a popular move. Everyone would like a low-tax country, of course, even in Desus, or there would be no taxes at all. At the same time, we would like to live in a just and particularly social state. Theoretically, it's more difficult than that. In our parliamentary group, we ask why the proposaler did not decide to just abolish all taxes. It is enough that we have economic growth and thus have solved all the problems with social transfers. Of course, a little science fiction. That's not how it works. There is also something to be taken from the Treasury and also something to be given to those who need help, and that is why we are also a social state. Written in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Respectfully, we agree with the work of the proposal, which says that the economy needs to be encouraged, that it needs to be burdened with pointless administrative obstacles, long-term procedures, illogical paperwork, and in particular that the medium-sized population needs to be unloaded and that it can help those who, unfortunately, cannot themselves. Last but not least, we have taken quite a few measures to improve living standards, such as raising minimum wages, harmonising pensions, free school lunches for the weak, and I could also list them. And one more thing, of course, we're not stopping here. The next step is to raise the lowest pensions to EUR 500, a step further to 600 and so on. Would it be possible to do this at the expense of an empty state treasury, without tax collection? Let's stop fooling around! We are well aware that any such measure must be counterweighted or countermeasured to ensure budgetary balance while ensuring stable public finances. We are talking about some 150 million euros of lower budget revenues this year if we reduce the value added tax rate. One of the concerns is whether a positive effect would be achieved at a lower VAT rate. It is likely either logical or expected that traders will not release retail prices but increase margins. Therefore, the positive final effect on the consumer is still questionable. In our Group of Members, we advocate that the quality of society's living conditions are based on every opportunity to work and earn a decent profit. More needs to be done in the area of ensuring decent wages for decent work, wiping out the chastity, removing the so-called espeisation from the labour market, raising pensions and, above all, reducing unemployment in particular for young people, first job seekers and especially for long-term job seekers. Tax payers, respected, are not allowed to charge at the expense of those who do not even have to survive. As we have already mentioned many times, we support a fair redistribution of the tax burden, but not at the expense of the weak. In the future, we will also have to really consider putting equal burdens on employers and employees, i.e. employees. More than once, it has been shown that incentives in the form of lower contributions and taxes do not — to remind you of the mid - 1996 period — justify their purpose and successfully fill the private pockets of individuals with abuse. And this mistake, colleagues and colleagues, will, of course, need to be corrected. Tax changes are a specific area that needs to be addressed in a sound and prudent manner, not only through the partial measures that are attractive, which do not withstand long-term fiscal efforts towards fiscal consolidation and do not contribute to the well-being of the country. Because of the changes in the law listed in the Desus Group, we are not and do not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u7	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good morning! On the proposal for a law that has been tabled and addressed today, the majority of all necessary statements are made by the absence of the proposer from this session, so allow me to conclude in one sentence that we will not support the Social Democrats' proposal to take away from the state budget and this country the 300 million euros that they can spend on investment in development, solidarity, education and other important measures for the growth and well-being of this country and for the high standard of living of citizens and citizens. We look forward to a discussion with him in case of accidental appearance in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I also agree that the seriousness of this proposal is all said by the fact that the applicant is not even to be considered at the plenary session of the National Assembly. However, given that such proposals are being made, it is said to reduce VAT and not to make sure that the budget gap is somehow replaced, not for the first time in this mandate, but on the right-hand side of it all the time, there is still a need to say a few words about it. If the National Assembly had adopted Couche's proposal to reduce VAT, it would have lost 300 million euros a year in the budget. This means that every citizen of Slovenia would save a couple of euros in food and other expenditure in one year or the next, but on the other hand, the budget would lose 300 million euros. And these euros should be taken somewhere. Where would they take them? With pensions, with health care, with social services? Of course, Mr Chuš does not respond because it simply refers to lower VAT as a higher economic growth and that higher economic growth would mean more revenue to the budget. That's what we've been listening to for eight years since the crisis. This was sold to us all the elites in the West, and we all see how this ended. With lower pensions, where already 40% of pensioners live with less than 500 euros a month in Slovenia, with the collapse of the social state, there is less money each year for public education, health care and other services to be managed by the state. These are simple consequences of such proposals and there is no need to oversold them. I have already said all this on the committee, but NSI has nevertheless proposed an even more radical amendment to align the VAT rate in Slovenia with the VAT rate in Germany. In doing so, of course, they again forget that in Germany, on the other hand, they can patch up their budget for, say, 10% higher profit tax than in Slovenia. We have 19% in Germany, 29% in Germany. But the proponents miss it. We would have a 19-percent tax on profits while at the same rate of VAT as in Germany. That's not going to work again if we don't want to destroy the social state. And why am I discussing this? Because these proposals always appear. If I get a little further with NSa. In this mandate, they proposed a social hat and a social slipper, which would drill an 826 million euro hole into the budget and the social treasury. They proposed a single income relief which would reduce income from income by €470 million and supported this reduction in VAT, which would reduce revenue by €300 million. This amounts to a government deficit of 1.6 billion euros annually. Where they'd take that money, no one would say. Therefore, I will only say this, we understand that these proposals are more than for some serious debate aimed at spreading ideology. But if the proponents treat them in such a senseless way, then they're rapidly divorcing them into some empty demagogy. Against this, we will always perform in the United Left, whether the candidates are present in the Chamber or not, especially when they are not as they are today with Mr Chuš. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Recently, the position of the Group of Members has also been misused for controversy. Of course, I will also take this moment to thank my esteemed colleague Luka Mesec, who has promoted the solutions of New Slovenia quite well. Of course, we argue that until our solutions are implemented into Slovenian legislation, we, ladies and gentlemen, will have a structural deficit for so long. Thank God we got the Fiscal World last night. These are our domestic people, who are and must be very independent, very independent and will tell us about the structural deficit in Slovenia, which is increasing. Structural deficits are increasing. What does that mean? This means that the budget structure of the Republic of Slovenia is not good. And the first question, when I meet them, is this. In Novi Slovenije, we had a strong reaction to the increase in the value added tax already at the time of the increase in 2013 in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At the time it was meant as, as we understood it, a temporary measure. And here we have to tell the truth about this pay phone. This government, and this coalition, has cemented the rate of value added tax in the Value Added Tax Act. It was said earlier that this was not true. From 20% to 22% and from 8.5% to 9.5%, of course, we understood it as a measure contrary to the Christian Democratic Programme. It is therefore quite clear that the proposal for a law that we are currently considering and bringing the level of value added tax to the previous level is supported. It is quite interesting in this Slovenian policy when the left political hemisphere, which has a full mouth of social, social policy, raises taxes. As said by a fellow Shircelj, who is the first person to be able to speak competently about taxes in this National Assembly, this is the most unsocial tax. And the left government raises the most unsocial tax. In New Slovenia we also proposed an amendment, which we are proud to set the value added tax rate even lower, at 19% and 7% lower. Our proposal would compare the value added tax regime with that laid down in Germany. Germany is the strongest economic force in Europe. Unfortunately, the coalition does not feel any affection for tax cuts, as it did not support the proposal of New Slovenia or the proposal of Ambassador Andrej Čulš. Even more unusual is the fact that the Left Government Coalition does not support the reduction of the tax that affects the poorest citizens most because they spend the largest proportion of their income on the purchase of the products they need to survive. Contrary to the government's deterrence to lower taxes, we can see that this is much braver, because it is a government when it comes to taking from the budget. She has shown this to us several times in recent times since she has released quite a few funds on the expenditure side of the budget. Let me just remind you of the union arrangements and the recapitalisation of SDH and DUTB. For these budgetary expenditure alone, the government has committed more than €350 million. 350 million euros, and there was not a single word here in the National Assembly. This was not decided by the National Assembly. Today, however, there is a cry and a cry for some 300 million dollars in Cuz’s bill. The way in which state fiscal policy is managed suggests that the government is either over-aware or unaware of the fact that money is created in the economy. Fruits of gross domestic product growth and consequently the expansion of the state budget under the leadership of the existing government reap only the expenditure side of the budget. However, companies caring for a budgetary solution are waiting for at least a little burden to come to light. By rejecting this proposal, the government coalition has wasted the possibility of at least slightly improving the tax and business environment in the Republic of Slovenia. Reducing the burden of value added tax would certainly increase consumption, stimulate economic activity and improve the operating conditions of economic operators. Since reducing tax burdens is an extremely important part of the direction of the New Slovenia economic programme, we will of course support the amendment of the value added tax law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u13	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. AND 11. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law supplementing the law on corporate income tax and the proposal for a law on supplementation of the law on income. The draft laws were submitted to the assembly by a group of six Members and Members, with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members, with their first signed magi, is a group of 10 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. To further explain both proposals, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u14	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! So today we are looking at a bill that touches an area that is in such or otherwise close to almost every Slovenian and also to Slovenia. Sport affects Slovenian society in various ways, especially the rich of our lives, brings us a little more joy in the gloomy times, especially bringing people together and strengthening our health. Slovenian athletes make our days better, bring us together in cheerleading, encourage us to be patriotic, inspire us and set an example for young and old. Slovenian athletes are certainly the best ambassadors of Slovenia. Unfortunately, our athletes must often find themselves in inadequate or difficult financial conditions, mainly in the younger years of their development, which are largely due to the financial undernutrition of Slovenian sport. The National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia estimates for the period 2014-2023 that we cannot implement all these sports efforts, desires, the development of sport without the appropriate support mechanisms of the country. He further says, quote: “The state is pursuing public interest by guiding an incentive tax policy for the development of sport.” It reads: “With the management of an encouraging tax policy for the development of sport”. We attach Christian Democrats in this part to the national sport programme. In order to promote financing of sport, however, we think more than state subsidies are suitable and more appropriate tax reliefs. Since 2014, when the National Sport Programme was adopted in the area of financial support for sport, virtually nothing has been done, unfortunately. That is why we Members of the New Slovenia, encouraged by various proposals, are probably the other Members attending sports events where they encourage you to do something, however, in order to make the investment in sport worthwhile. And also on the basis of these incentives, we have joined the action in New Slovenia and proposed a new Law on corporate income tax and a new Law on Income. We are proposing a special new relief for grants to sports companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport, as well as sports companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at both national and municipal level. Or the companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme under the Sport Foundation. A taxable person who makes a donation to such a sport society shall be entitled to a reduction of the tax base by a two-fold amount of the grant paid. If I say this a little bit more domestically, with the local expression that any donation to sport would represent a double cost to the entrepreneur. So in a specific case, if an entrepreneur donated thousands of euros to a sports company, this would cost him 2,000 euros, or a thousand euros, of a donation could reduce the tax base by 2,000 euros. Of course, we have introduced into the law a wide variety of safeguards that ensure that such a law cannot be used for tax optimisation. The implementation of sports activities is often associated with high costs. This is not about our conclusion, you have recently been able to monitor a special contribution on TV Slovenia in Odessa, where they presented a concrete example of skiing, how extremely expensive it has become to skiing in the last period and how many parents can no longer afford it. Sport companies are working in a variety of ways to provide financial resources. Unfortunately, however, the current tax legislation does not provide them with many tools that could help them. For example, the current Institute of Tax Relief for Grants, as is known by existing legislation, limits the reduction of the tax base to 0,3 % of tax revenue. And if it sounds too theoretical again, let's take a concrete example: if a company has a company, some company, 10 thousand euros in profits, it can now enforce donations up to 30 euros. Can you imagine? That means you're lowering your tax by about €6. So a company that has 10,000 euros in profits and chooses to spend thousands of euros on a sports company can reduce tax, say and write by 6 euros. It is clear that companies rightly warn that this is not the way to invest in sport and that such a grant and tax policy is certainly not appropriate and encouraging for thousands of euros to receive a reduced tax of €6. What do we suggest? Following the amendments to the legislation we are proposing, companies that would donate to sport would not be limited to the level of the grant and any donation would double in terms of reducing their tax base. If that sounds too theoretical again, I am going on a concrete case: for a company that has, say, 10,000 euros in profits and decides to spend thousands of euros on sports, because the donation doubles, that means that the tax base is reduced by 2,000 euros, which means that the tax base is no longer 10,000 euros, but 8 thousand euros. If the company did not donate to sport, it would pay 19% of its profits, which would amount to a thousand Euros. If the company decided to donate thousands of euros to sport, the tax base would therefore be reduced to EUR 8 000 and 19% of these EUR 8 000 would be EUR 520. So much less tax would be paid by the company, i.e. EUR 380 less tax. The difference between our proposal and the current one is obvious. At the moment, the current regime for the donation of thousands of euros could reduce the tax by €6; according to our proposal, the tax would be reduced by €380. If we turn things around, the country would lose 380 euros in the budget in this way, of course. But Slovenian sport would also receive a thousand Euros of support. Although the Ministry of Finance would have lost some tax, Slovenian sport would have gained almost three times that much. Christian Democrats are convinced that the introduction of such a mechanism into the Slovenian tax system would significantly contribute to the development of sport in us. Slovenian sport and Slovenian athletes certainly deserve this support. You know, we would finally do what we and probably are warned by entrepreneurs at various sports events, but let us, for God's sake, do such a tax system to pay them to invest in sport. And that is what we intend to do with this proposal today. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that these two bills are being dealt with in the very days when we look forward to our biggest Slovenian sports holiday. It's summer in Planica. It is for this reason that all the members of the group are specifically invited to a constructive debate on the proposed provisions. I warn you, this is a first general discussion and, dear coalition, you do not have to reject this law at first reading, but let us continue this debate and debate. Of course, we are prepared to listen to all the different arguments and, in the later stages of this law's treatment, to find solutions that will be acceptable to such a country and, above all, to Slovenian sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u15	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u16	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The draft laws, which will be worded for in the coming hours, propose a new additional tax exemption, namely in the Laws on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and Income. This is a relief for grants to sports companies acting in the public interest. A taxable person who makes a donation to such a company would, on a proposal from the applicant under certain conditions, be entitled to a reduction of the tax base by a two-fold amount of the grant paid, which can be intended only for the organisation or participation in sports events or for the investment in the basic assets and equipment that the company needs for its operation. The Government introductoryly points out that it is aware of the positive effects of sport and it is therefore important to draw attention to the actions of the various policies already being implemented, further to the legislative acts adopted or in preparation and other activities relevant to the provision of a favourable framework in the field of sport. It's kind of a web of actions. If we look at it more broadly, these are measures at the level of the Ministry of Education, on the other hand, perhaps also partly on the side of the Ministry of Finance when we are talking about facilitations, when we are talking not least about the employment of athletes. Last but not least, I think we have 15 employees on the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of the Interior, MORS, is also involved, not least in the promotion of events, but I am talking about the Ministry of the Economy and so on. And all of this is some kind of web that draws on such possible donations, such sponsorship funds, as well as transfers through subsidies and so on. And that's the web we're talking about. It is not possible to talk about this only in a partial way, it is necessary to look at the broader picture of what Slovenia is actually aiming for and how this is being done. Tax policy measures depend on the context of the general economic policy, agreed development priorities and other relations in society and the country. Tax measures may pursue targeted objectives, but at the same time ensuring fair and effective taxation. This means that individual proposals need to be viewed in a comprehensive and not just in terms of one measure, possibly one group or one area. In the applicable law on corporate income tax and income law, there is already a provision for grants for so-called non-profit purposes, including sports. In order to ensure compliance with European legislation, it may also be applied to grants from a Member State of the European Union or the European Economic Area. According to figures on the corporate income tax, in 2015 about 9,000 debtors and around 4 thousand taxpayers were applying this relief to income from activities. Regrettably, it is not possible to exclude the debtors who have only made it possible to grant for sport purposes, from others, but it is somehow information for all non-profit purposes. With this relief, the taxpayers reduced the tax base from corporate income by about EUR 20 million. This is estimated at around EUR 4 million. On the other hand, it says income, and about a million, which corresponds to about 0.3 or 300,000 euros in income. In addition, in Article 142 of the Income Act, for the purposes of financing sport-friendly purposes, there is also a specific institution for the purpose of work of income up to 0,5 %. The government emphasises that these measures have not been fully exploited. If we look at 2015, about 9 million were available, the pledges took advantage and somehow redistributed some 4 million euros at will. The rest remained unused or returned to the budget and then redistributed through an integrated system that the country was implementing other policies. That's where there's the manoeuvre. We also point to measures, not just tax relief under both laws, which constitute favourable treatment for the debtors, for example, in the Law on corporate income tax, exemption from certain base incomes, the possibility of carrying losses and other general relief, including a relatively favourable tax rate. Slovenia is pursuing the objective of a balanced budget by 2020. In this context, proposals for specific tax reliefs to be considered should also be considered. In this area, the Government does not provide for an extension of relief, but in pursuing the broad objectives already mentioned, it certainly strives to maintain the benefits in force. Tax relief must be provided for in such a way as to make their application as easy as possible. Additional conditions such as the condition that donations to a sports society are used only for precisely defined investments or for organising and participating in sports events, further tying to the public interest and others require specific verification and proof, which is linked to costs and administrative burdens both on the part of the debtor and on the part of the financial authority or the State, and, last but not least, to a slightly lower possible legal security associated with this, as the environment is becoming a little more unpredictable. In particular, the Government emphasises that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia can control tax measures and that the control of refunds is somewhat unusual if they are not used for the required purposes. In principle, the Financial Administration does not have such powers. In determining tax measures whose enforcement is linked to a number of additional conditions, rules on tax avoidance should also be laid down. This makes the system more complex and additionally opaque. The draft laws are not designed in such a way as to clearly and unequivocally establish the delimitation to the current grant relief, even in terms of height, the government is somewhat disproportionate compared to the overall relief for grants and, of course, other areas. We do not simply have sport; we must not forget this, as the current legislation provides for donations for humanitarian purposes, disability, social security, charity, health, cultural and so on. So this is a single dimension that is important and also needs to be looked at when we are dealing with proposals for possible relief. At the same time, the government considers that only a combination of appropriate tax measures and at the same time ensuring sound, gradual fiscal consolidation is also the way to a sustainable and appropriate environment for the operation and development of sport. In our opinion, the draft laws of this objective do not follow. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support, in accordance with the proposed laws, income tax and corporate income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u17	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again! The Group of Members has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending the Law on corporate income tax and a proposal for a law amending the Law on Income, proposing an exemption for donations with a view to investing in a society acting in the public interest in the field of sport. The main solution presented by the legislative proposals is the introduction of a new relief for grants to sports companies operating in the public interest in the field of sport, sports companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at both national and local level or selected for the implementation of the annual programme of the Sport Foundation. According to the proposal of the applicants, the taxable person shall be entitled to a reduction of the tax base by twice the amount of the grant paid, which may be intended only for the organisation or participation in sports events or investment in the fixed assets and equipment that the company needs for its operation. It is certainly worth mentioning that we are aware of the importance of the sport area. It should be noted, however, that an additional tax relief is proposed for the purpose of investing in a society that operates in the public interest in the field of sport. In doing so, I would point out, however, that already in the Income Act of Articles 66 and 59 of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, a taxable person may impose a reduction of the tax base on the amount of payments in money and in the nature of humanitarian, disability, social security, charitable, scientific, educational, health, sports, cultural, ecological, religious and general useful purposes, only for such payments to residents of Slovenia and residents of other EU Member States other than business units of EU Member States located outside the Member States of the European Union, which are established under specific rules to carry out those activities as non-profit activities up to an amount corresponding to 0,3 % of the taxable income of the taxable person in the tax year. In addition to the reduction in the tax base referred to in the previous sentence, the taxable person may impose an additional reduction in the tax base to an amount corresponding to 0,2 % of the taxable income of the taxable person in the fiscal year for the amount of payments in cash and in kind for cultural purposes and for such payments to voluntary companies established to protect against natural and other disasters acting in the public interest for these purposes. In view of the above, the benefit for grants for sport purposes is therefore already provided for in the Income Act and the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. For a certain amount of payment for these purposes, the taxable person may reduce the tax base. In addition, in Article 142 of the Income Act, for the purposes of financing generally beneficial purposes and political parties and representative unions, including companies acting in the public interest and having a designated institution in the field of sport for the purpose of work of income. Any resident may require that up to 0,5 % of the income paid under the Income Act be allocated to the annual tax base for the financing of these purposes. I should also remind you that Article 9 of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons provides for the exemption of taxes on income from the non-profit activities of so-called non-profit organisations and also of societies. Donations represent income from non-profit activities for society, so they are not included in the tax base in society as a recipient. Article 9 of the Law on corporate income tax also includes sports companies, institutions, institutions. All other measures which constitute a certain incentive, relief or benefit for taxable persons under the Law on corporate income tax also apply to sports companies. Thus tax incentives for investment, for business, for the possibility of transfer of tax losses, excluding dividends received from the tax base. We certainly understand the proposaler's intention to increase funding in the field of sport, but increasing the incentives or additional incentives for sport grants does not yet mean that there would be more grants for sport. Certainly, there can be no decision to make a donation simply because of tax reliefs. We can say that it is necessary to look at measures in the field of sport from all sides. One of these is the tax policy we are talking about now. The data show that there are few taxpayers in favour of donations and that they do not even fully apply them. We certainly cannot conclude that the main motivation for the donation is tax relief. However, it is necessary to look at the promotion of sport activities from the point of view of the state budget measures, since in 2017 the funds for sport amount to €15.3 million, of which €800 000 for sports infrastructure. According to 2016, the funds increase by 10.4%, at the expense of the European Social Fund. In 2018, the funds for sport amount to EUR 15.1 million, of which sports infrastructure is EUR 2.8 million. In this way, the Government will support the development of high-quality sport in 2017 and 2018 through co-financing the preparation of teams and individuals for the largest international competitions, co-financing and promoting sport of children and youth and sports, co-financing the development and professional tasks of sport and in line with the National Sport Programme 2014-2023 co-financing the programmes of sport of disabled persons, sports of older people, pilot programmes for the integration of sports disabled and charities and pilot sports programmes for the promotion of health and well-being. We can certainly say that it is important for sports activity that two top sports facilities have been opened within the mandate of this government, namely the Nordic Centre Planica and the Gymnastics Center Ljubljana. The Ministry co-financed both projects from its own and European resources. It should also be mentioned here that in the procedure of the National Assembly there is a Sports Act which has a significant impact on the development of sport. The law provides conditions for the citizens of Slovenia to engage more and better in sports and movement activities to maintain health. The law in the procedure will increase accessibility to sport and moving activities for higher quality of professional work, increase the protection of the rights of athletes through the Institute of the Ombudsman of Sport Rights, allow for free participation in competition sport for all amateur athletes and increase the transparency and purposeful use of public funds by uniting the structure and system of calls and criteria for co-financing at national, local and sport levels, which will allow for a greater review of the use of resources. Therefore, this Law on Sport, which is in procedure, will be very important. As it is said, in the parliamentary group, we support the essential measures that will promote sports activity and we will vote against the fact that the law on the supplementation of the Law on corporate income tax and the law on the supplementation of the Law on Income are suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u19	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u20	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are looking at the addition of two laws tabled by the New Slovenia Group. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will continue to give our views and opinions on this proposal. In opening, it is important to say that we will be able to state our position on both proposals at the same time, because they are meaningful and related, it is a matter of supplementing the Income Act and supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The main solutions to these laws propose a new relief for grants to sports companies operating in the public interest in the field of sport and sports companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at both national and local level or selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Sport Foundation. The main objective is that the taxable person who makes a donation to a company belonging to those categories is entitled to a reduction in the tax base by a double amount of the grant paid. The grant may only be intended for the organisation and participation of sports events or investment in the fixed assets and equipment that societies need for their activities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that such a complement is welcome. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, above all, during the last governments, the attitude towards sport by Mačehovski's policy is the attitude towards sport. It is and also, in my personal opinion, sports and athletes are doing the best promotion for Slovenia in the world. At this point, I would like to thank all athletes and athletes for the promotion made by our beautiful Republic of Slovenia and sincere congratulations for all the results. However, the fact is that the country devotes less and less systemic resources to the operation of sport from year to year, which, according to the structure of public finances, is also somehow to be expected, but in Slovenia we are democratically convinced that sport and athletes should be given more time, more attention and change the environment that would be more sport-friendly. Above all, the state should be aware that young people need to be involved in sport and that if we do not have a professional drive of sports clubs above, then we cannot expect the youth to be involved in this part. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this step, proposed by the New Slovenia Group, is going in the right direction, and certainly this step is not intended for so-called professional clubs, which we have in Slovenia from year to year, in my personal opinion today we have, say, 2.5 professional clubs in Slovenia, we have had more, but that such a change and the addition of the law is mainly for smaller societies that promote young talents in Slovenia, athletes and athletes, that they can even participate in this competition. On the other hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Slovenia does not only need to supplement these two laws, in this sense the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax, we are convinced that Slovenia needs tax reform in its entirety. The area of tax burdens for both the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia and legal persons and espionage is in the last period under the last governments, I would say, particularly the burden. Indeed, what we announced at the arrival of the government of Mir Cerar and the SMC, SD and Desus coalitions to continue the debt policy and additional tax burdens has also been realized. When we look at what this government has done in the last three years, not least in all areas it is burdening both the population and the economy. The economy is working hard, working well, on the other hand, to be rewarded, and with various measures the government is actually punishing it. Let us just remember that under this government, Mira Cerar, and under this coalition, a temporary measure to increase value added tax has come into permanent action. We see that they also changed the corporate income tax about six months ago and increased the profit burden by 2%. And excise policy is also a burden on both the economy and legal persons. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that new solutions should be found, as mentioned earlier, a new tax reform would be needed. This step proposed by New Slovenia will be supported by us. This is a first reading, but we are confident that we need different solutions, not just per partes solutions. I am confident that, with regard to tax reform, the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax, we will receive supplements to the National Assembly, both by the government and by opposition parliamentary groups, for two or three months, and this leads in the right direction. Such steps primarily confuse the stakeholders involved in the Income Act and the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. I mean, we should provide an environment that is stable. Not that tax laws change by six months, by three months, by one year. I am sure that in such an environment the Slovenian economy cannot function effectively. For also foreign investors, all who come to Slovenia, would like to have some stable system. Not that we change VAT for three months, we increase excise duties, we introduce some new taxes. As I have already mentioned, we will support this bill in this first reading, but we are confident that, both in the Income Act and in the case of corporate income taxes, these changes should be made more widely. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, given the experience of this government so far, and because somehow light speed is also due to relations within the coalition, elections are expected, it is unlikely that this government will succeed. And we are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the challenge of the next government in the Republic of Slovenia will have to be mainly tax reform, because in the area of tax we are suffocating both the population and the economy. A broader solution needs to be found here, which will go in the direction of ensuring, above all, a stable tax environment, which will somehow be one that generates revenue for the budget. On the other hand, we see in this government that they only understand the function of the tax as a charge on the budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the tax function has a greater added value and that, above all, we are missing from this government that it is not aware that the tax also has a development function. This means that the country with the taxes it collects would, on the one hand, also allow a higher standard for all residents of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we are convinced that this government only understands the tax as a charge on the budget. We have already proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that either the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be obliged to report once a year to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia what they have done in that year with all the taxes collected, for what they have been taxed for. And this move was unfortunately rejected by the Ministry of Finance and also by these governments. Once again, Slovenia needs amendments to the Income Act. Slovenia needs to change the Law from the income of legal persons, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that per partes solutions for 3 months, for 6 months they are not the solution that we need a comprehensive change. I would also call this a tax reform. Above all, that these two taxes stabilize the system. If we go back to the sports field. I'm sure this government has a stepfather's attitude to sports. In the position of the Modern Centre Party, we were able to hear how this government can boast of opening the Nordic Center. See, the credits for the opening of the Nordic Centre in Planica are exclusively given to the government of Janez Janša in the mandate 2004-2008, when then Minister Milan Zver also took this matter down. If Mr Beast were not then and the government of Janez Janša, I am sure that there would be no Nordic centre in Planica today. And it must also be remembered that there was a major problem at the time, even today, among Tina Maze’s most successful athletes. Above all, thanks to Milan the Beast and then the government of Janez Janša, Tina Maze’s problem was financially resolved, and on this basis Tina Maze also produced excellent results and excellent promotion for Slovenia. These changes are needed. We also hear many times in the position of the various parliamentary groups, especially the United Left, that we cannot somehow reduce taxes, because then we will reduce the necessary tax revenues required for public education, public health, pension bills. Look, Your Honor, we have repeatedly warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think it's at least two to four times a year with respect to tax debt. The tax debt in Slovenia is more than one billion euros! We have repeatedly asked what this government has done, what the coalition has done to reduce tax debt. And in my opinion, this tax debt has been increasing over the last period. And here we have considerable reserves. More than 1 billion tax debt if the state were able to collect it as it should be, matters could change, and this more than one billion could be earmarked for the maintenance of such a pension fund, public education, public health. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that in the area of taxes Slovenia has huge reserves which it cannot exploit. I think that today will also be a time for discussion and, as I mentioned, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this proposal to supplement the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax in this first reading. Furthermore, if these two laws are to be given a green light, I am sure that we must go to comprehensive solutions, not solutions per partes just for one area that needs to be changed. Look, I'm sure you'd be much more pleased with the athletes if, today, Miro Cerar, instead of watching them on the train to Planica, said you'd have such and such reliefs, or in the future we'll provide these funds for you. I think it's just moral support and the promotion of the President of the Government, but the athletes from watching them on their way to Planica by train will have nothing today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that athletes and athletes are the best promoters of Slovenia in the world, and I think that it would be a policy task, not only do politicians like to appear on VIP stands to take pictures with athletes, but mainly that politics provides a favourable environment for sport, which is unfortunately not in Slovenia today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, secretary with co-worker, MPs, Members. Have a nice day. First of all, let me pay great respect to our athletes, who are extremely successful in promoting our country around the world. I would also like to commend all the country's efforts to listen to and make progress in sport with us. However, in the opening, let me say that in the Desus Group we believe that both proposals are not suitable for further consideration. In the past, we have seen a situation where tax incentives have had a bad effect on changing people’s thinking — both for those who run businesses and for others. We have thus seen, for example, that the lower tax rate on profits that we have introduced in order to promote investment in business growth and job creation has unfortunately ended up in private pockets. It is difficult to predict how many taxpayers would opt for such a relief and whether after the adoption of this measure the sports companies would really be able to recover. This does not mean that we do not know or need such tax relief. Since now, we can donate, among other things, for sports purposes and invest for generally beneficial purposes. Such a decision is subject to a tax advantage in the form of a reduction in the tax base. The applicants went even further and made a proposal for a wider or greater tax relief. Even if more money comes from this title, we in the Desus Group are concerned that the purpose of donations will not be achieved. In this case, is it not the only objective to improve the situation of sports companies, to invest in the common public good rather than to increase the personal savings of investors at the expense of tax advantages? The award system will not bring about significant changes. Those who have done so thus far are likely to be in the future if it is for sincere purposes to help sport, irrespective of the amount of the tax incentive. We also believe that there is too much manoeuvre for abuses and we do not understand why we should limit ourselves to a certain group of beneficiaries. In the Desus Group, we are critical, in particular, that the applicants have not offered us any financial calculations as to how much this kind of move will cost us. They argue that the financial consequences cannot be predicted, but that does not mean they will not be. Above all, we are interested in what remedy would make up for such a failure. We do not know the answer to this question because it is nothing more than a renewed attempt by the opposition to make tax policy as popular as possible for the public. However, such likeness also entails responsibility within the framework of the sustainability of public finances. Such responsibilities are not known by the proponents, for they are simply sort of an unrealistic idea. In the Desus Group, we can only agree in one part, namely that the area of sport needs more money incentives, regardless of whether we are talking about promoting recreational or professional sport. The state should ensure that more money for financing sport is made directly from the budget. The latter is the result of the negotiating power of an individual department, not a tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In the United Left, we are convinced that it is not a coincidence that Slovenia is one of the most successful nations in the world at every Olympic game and at all major sports competitions in various disciplines. Our athletes are in many disciplines, even though we are a small nation, 2 million, usually surprisingly high in all major world competitions. This has to do with how sport in Slovenia developed, how it was financed. I am convinced that we can look for the roots of this in the interconnection of local communities, sports companies, public finance and companies that have been involved and are still involved in local communities and are funding these activities. So I'm going to start thinking like this. The successful development of sport requires all four elements: local involvement, i.e. businesses, promotion of both recreational and professional sport and state resources and state support. The proposer here focuses on one of the elements. This is private financing for sport, but at the same time it forgets the importance of public finances and public support for sport. I'd start like this. We have a lot of good practices in Slovenia for companies that finance sports activities. We have, say, Triglav, Helios, Krko, Cimos, who support sports clubs. These sports clubs provide important results, which means that the existing model of awarding, subsidising sport by companies in Slovenia works and is not successful. Subton of the proposer is somehow in the sense that these finances are few and could be more, but if we look at the numbers, we see that individual clubs and even associations get as many as two thirds of their resources from private funds, from corporate funds, which means that the tradition of club financing and associations by companies in Slovenia works and these funds are somehow not minor. The measures that the country should take here in order to survive are, in our view, two types in particular. One thing is to prevent companies that are successfully integrated into local environments from being privatised. Let's say we had a case like this in Domal Helios or we have it in Primorska near Cimos right now. These are companies that finance sports clubs and the question is whether the new foreign owners will still be as interested in promoting local activities as they were in the domestic Helios, such as a firefighting company, sports clubs and so on, as was the state owner. Even bigger problems here are smaller places and smaller sports clubs. I come from Železnikov, where Alples finances a handball club that is successful, I think it is a second-class company, then Domel, which finances a ski club that is also successful. If these companies were to move into foreign hands, it is said that they would no longer be as local as they are, the question is whether the financing for these sporting activities would remain. Therefore, we believe that the first most important measure is the retention of businesses and thus their profits and resources to support local activities, such as sports activities, in public, local, short-lived activities. This is the first thing that's very important. In this I think that there is also a key difference between us and the NSI as a proposaler. We say that businesses need to be kept at home so that profits can be used at home in Slovenia for activities that are socially beneficial, while the proposer says no, companies need to be sold. If we sell these companies, it is likely that funding for sports clubs will also be reduced. In essence, the proposaler is now offering an answer in advance to what needs to be done then. Then it is necessary to offer tax reliefs to new owners who, instead of investing them in their homes, transfer them abroad, in order to encourage that the funds for sports clubs should not be abolished. But this solution has a lot of flaws. The first and the most recent is that there is a drastic increase in business relief, which means that some share will land in sports clubs, but even more will keep businesses to themselves. This share will be a vindictive profit tax. Another problem is that if we have companies of a purely commercial nature that are not involved in the local community, it will probably be in the best interest to finance the most profitable forms of sport, according to most, it is professional sport. In the United Left, we think that the same or even more important than professional sports is recreational sport, because, on the one hand, it has a beneficial impact on public health and, on the other hand, this is the basis for any sport activity. Without recreational sport, we can also think of success in professional sports, which this country can now be proud of. Thus, the proposaler would point out that we should not look so unilaterally at the question, it is said that companies should be as stimulated as possible to invest in sports clubs, but should look in an integrated manner, saying that we will develop not only professional sports but, above all, recreational sports in Slovenia and how we will provide public funds to keep this happening. I'd like to warn you of three other problems. The first is how much a country spends a year on sports. For the time being, unfortunately, although we have already dug ourselves out of the crisis as a country, we are drowned in education lines and in the Ministry of Education and Recreation in 2017, we will spend a good EUR 10 million. On a proposal from the United Left, the ministry will increase the budget for sport infrastructure by €2 million next year. EUR 2 million for all sports infrastructure we have in Slovenia is nothing. We should therefore think here about how to provide more investment in sport infrastructure and in general in support of sports activities from the budget. Another time. It is important to ask what is the situation of athletes in this country. Slovenian legislation thus far allows for the full exaggeration of professional and semi-professional sport, and compared to which France or Germany is a professional sport in us almost a slave. We only see a few percent of athletes in the media, and we forget everything else. Therefore, in the promotion of sport, priority should be given to cutting into sports legislation, with the Sport Act currently under preparation in some respects even worse than the existing one. Third time. Once again, if we want to remain a sports country, we need to look at how we will primarily support recreational sport. As it is said, the existing system of subsidies, stimulating the subsidisation of sport by businesses, should therefore be maintained and upgraded. In doing so, we must not forget that excessive tax reliefs will endanger public funds for sport. Therefore, with regard to the proposal made by NSI, we cannot say positively in the United Left because we feel that it is one-way, weak and has simply not considered all the consequences it brings with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u25	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary of State! Some of the coalition's downgrading you, I hear they call you a secretary. This is Secretary of State Tillen Christmas. Together we deal with two laws of New Slovenia, which in their form belong to the field of finance, and according to their content or the problem they solve, the law falls within the area of sport. The implementation of sports activities is often linked to high financial resources. With the undisputed positive effects of sport in various areas in New Slovenia, we note that we need to strengthen the incentive to finance societies that care to a large extent about sports activities and the development of sport culture. Tax incentives for grants in sport are certainly a good way to improve their financial capacity and consequently to strengthen the positive role of sport in Slovenian society. The draft laws introduce new tax incentives for grants to sports companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport and sports companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at both national and local level or selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Sport Foundation. A taxable person who makes a donation to a company falling within those categories shall be entitled to a reduction in the tax base by a double amount of the grant paid. The grant may only be intended for the organisation or participation of sports events or for investment in fixed assets and equipment that companies need for their operations. In Novi Slovenija we follow the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023, which estimates in the chapter of the Sports Support Mechanism that we cannot implement the programme work of the National Sports Programme without the appropriate support mechanisms of the country. It further states that, I quote: “The State is pursuing public interest by guiding an incentive tax policy for the development of sport.” End of quote. This is therefore an incentive tax policy for the development of sport. These two of our laws, the New Slovenia Act, are doing this, so we are in line and within the framework of some national documents. The new facilitation bill introduces a system of symbiosis between economic operators and defined sports companies, which has positive effects both in the field of the economy and in the field of sport. The mechanisms introduced by the legislative proposals strengthen the principle of subsidiarity in financing sports activities. This means that, through a proposal for legal solutions, we will allow the financing of sport activities to be carried out automatically as far as possible in the civil sphere, limiting the involvement of the state authorities in the course of these processes. We believe that both entrepreneurs and defined sports companies are social entities that can achieve significant shifts in the development of Slovenian sport by working together and encouraging tax reliefs. With a slightly more plastic picture of what our proposal for a law brings, here I think of the amendment to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, we can look at an example of a particular economic society, that is, a legal person. If a company with a profit of EUR 10,000 to a sports company had allocated thousands of euros, the tax liability would have been reduced by EUR 380 according to our proposal to such a company. The country would give up 380 Euros of tax, but Slovenian sport would receive as much as a thousand Euros of support. Although the state budget would have lost some inflows, Slovenian sport would have gained almost three times that much. We Christian Democrats believe that the citizens of Parliament expect us to listen to the problems and needs of sport and to society in obtaining the resources necessary for their operation, to enable us to use new instruments in the form of tax reliefs. Since we allow Slovenian sport to improve its operating conditions in Novi Slovenija, we will, of course, support the proposed Act on Complements of the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Income.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u27	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Marko Ferluga has the word to prepare for the mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr. Joseph Horvat. I'm sorry, first of all, the proposer. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, then like I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u28	I think that following the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, there is a need to comment on the need to avoid needless repetition or the opposite. It has been said that if I give a few general comments first, then what has been said for each individual group of Members, that the country is already investing heavily in sport and that some Members believe that they are well-ordered and that more needs to be done, but most of the time it is fine. I cannot agree with this position. It has already been said that the state employs athletes in public administration, military, police, customs administration and elsewhere. The disadvantage of this measure is that this applies only to top athletes. Only top athletes receive this measure or these jobs. There is no problem, it is right, but I stress that this is not a universal measure. The next thing that has been said is that the current donation policy allows donations not only to sports society, associations and clubs, but also to everyone else. That's true, too, but the disadvantage is that these reliefs are extremely small. I have said before a concrete example that, in accordance with current legislation, a company investing in a company gives a donation to any company, and in particular to a sports company, a reduction of a tax of EUR 6. And most likely, the concerns and comments are justified when they say that it is ridiculously low, you give a thousand Euros a donation and then you get a 6-euro reduction. Then the debate highlighted why only sports companies, why not others. This time we have focused only on sports societies, because according to our assessment, this is where the biggest costs come from. These societies need financial support for some normal training of young people, as well as for top-notch success in the future. And one more thing — why sports? Because it is our assessment that investing in sport is strategically important, and it is because of two things. Because of the better health of our citizens and because sport is the best promoter of our country everywhere. Some of you have been concerned about how this proposal may cause certain abuses. But look, there are guards in this marriage. The representative of Desus said it could lead to abuse. On the other hand, the representative of the government said that it was exaggeration. We have entered into the law the guardians, that these donations may be received by companies acting in the public interest or by a municipal or state sport programme. It is said that there is some restriction on these societies. There's no way someone who has a company would say, but you know what to say, but I would be tax-optimised, and now I'd be making another sports company to then direct donations to a sports society, and then I'd be reducing my corporate tax base in this way. This is not the case because the law clearly states which societies and what matters. So for organizing and participating in competitions, for infrastructure and for equipment. These are three very exact things described and limited. If I now take on a few more comments from the members of the groups. The MP, who presented SMC's position, said that it was not necessary for our law to increase donations to sports companies. He certainly does. He's right. Because some company can't donate if it works badly if it doesn't have money. This is clear, and this law will not force anyone. It's all optional. If the company is in such a state and condition as to be able to donate to the companies, then if it doesn't, it won't have to. So that's her claim. I don't even deny it. Then she says we should co-finance. Here's our essential difference. We're more of a relief, obviously SMC for co-financing. Then the SDS Member's comment, which said that this law and this money, which would come with these donations, is not intended primarily for professional clubs, but for clubs that establish mainly young people and people who are at the beginning of the sport path. He certainly does. The SDS representative is right here. This law is not so much written for professional, successful Slovenian clubs, but mainly for clubs, associations and societies involved, we may call it, with slightly more mass sports that train young people. These are the ones that are difficult to reach. If you have a top-notch athlete, this society, club or athlete is easier to obtain a donation, a sponsoring contract, and in particular the problem is that young people are involved. These two laws would help these societies to make as much money as possible and thus burden their parents with financing their young people involved in sports and also create an environment so that these young people can mature into top-notch and successful athletes. Then we come up with slightly more entertaining or unusual comments about our law, such as that of Desus. Mrs Desus said that the law does not have precise financial calculations. How is he supposed to have them? Tell me. Today I cannot tell you how many Slovenian companies will invest in sport. On the basis of this law, no one can, on the basis of this law, ten thousand, five thousand, I don't know. This makes it impossible to do any calculation, and the government or the finance ministry cannot do the calculation of what this would mean for the government. However, it is certainly true that if this law were adopted, these donations would be slightly more because the system would be more interesting for businesses as well and would certainly be more of these grants than it is today. I'm sure I can say that. If I have previously given you a concrete example that, under the current legislation, if we give a hypothetical example of a company that has 10,000 euros in profits and decides to invest thousands of euros in sport, under the current legislation, the state can waive 6 euros in tax for these donations. You probably agree that this is not the most encouraging environment and that it is not exactly a system to encourage people to make such a donation. If our marriage were to be adopted, this would mean that the entrepreneur would have a lower tax of €380 if he had made a donation of thousands. I think the difference is marked by the current solution. Then we got a taste for Desus. I'm asking you, you found out for yourself whether sport needs money. And you yourself concluded in your introduction that Slovenian sport obviously needs money. I can't imagine how we would make a different system to make our tax system interesting for businesses to invest in sport. And then another thing turned out, in Desus they say they're more about things being directly financed from the budget. Yes, wait if the country or the municipality has to give out of the budget – where does this money come from? He also collects that money with taxes. It's just a transfer from left to right pocket. This is why we are here, if you want, ideologically, programmely or substantively different, that we advocate that it is better to take advantage of subsidies or some expenditure from the budget. If I keep going to the comments of the United Left, where the Member of the Moon has really been rocking in the formation of baseless conspiracy theories, he's put together some really amazing things, let's say, who gets the most. His thesis was to make the most of this law. Luka, please, come on! Let's take a closer look at the case of the donation, for example. If the company donates thousands of Euros to sport, the sports society gets plus a thousand Euros. The company receives EUR 380 as a result of the tax reduction, the country on the other hand loses EUR 380. So these three elements are: sport plus 1,000 euros, business plus 380 euros, state minus 380 euros. So, Ambassador Luke Moon, who gets the most under this law? According to this law, sports and sports companies are the most acquired. If I turn things around a little differently. With 380 euros, which the state gives up by not collecting this tax, the sport on the other hand receives a thousand euros. That's what calculations are. These are specific things that can be predicted. Then it was his claim, which was also completely flawed, that this would in particular promote the high-quality or elite sport that he is already getting enough. That's not true either. If I had at least listened to the SDS representative in my position, I could have found that this is intended primarily for companies, sports clubs, youth relations, because top athletes have much easier access to this money and will most likely not be able to use it. Well, that one was brilliant enough to bring privatisation and domesticism into this whole story, and here's the company, God bless you! But look, I'm sure someone who has a relationship, a social responsibility, or some interest will donate to sports. It's those two things. First of all, you have to have the opportunity within the company to donate anything at all. Some will donate because they are socially responsible because they want to return part of their profits to the environment from which they come, and others, perhaps because they will be paid for it. This I think are, in a way, essential points that I would like to point out on the basis of the current views that have been given. Once again, I would like to point out that today's debate is the first debate. If you have any interest in discussing how to help sport with specific things, then at least you would expect to vote that the law is suitable for further consideration and that we can then complete it further. I'm not saying we're the smartest, but we know everything. Perhaps the agreement below may also be that the level of relief may be reduced. If you think a double is too high, we can talk. If you feel that we have missed out on some important activity in sports clubs and associations, this is also an option or if things are overprotective, we can also release some security guard. It's all a matter of agreement. But at least that's what I'd like to say. This weekend is going to be a big sports holiday. There'll probably be something there, at least I'll be alone, and I'll probably meet a lot of you there. And when different people are knocking on us for different sleeves, whether you do something or help something, then try to remember that today you had a concrete opportunity and opportunity. Since it is always an excuse for others, it does not produce any results. And also this, I must be honest with you, this proposal comes exactly from the fact that I attended one of the larger sports events where I was approached by certain guests at half-time and said: "Fant, you are in Parliament, and now there do something like this to make it easy for us to invest in sport. The fact that I now give a thousand and that the state will grant me 6 euros in relief, thank you very much, I have nothing to help myself with." And if we already have a chance, some companies have it, if we have a chance, then at least do it in such a way that it will be useful for everyone. I think this proposal is such, and I hope that it will receive your support, that today's debate will not only go into this, “we support great athletes, but...”
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u29	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I apologize to the Members who have already applied because I think there is some enthusiasm for the government to discuss. However, I came forward a little earlier than I had planned, because I would like to add some information, which may help to further the debate. The first thing is, if we go from a narrow debate to a slightly broader debate, I would just like to make one comment about the funds, so much so that there is one feeling about it. If we go to look at the budget, it is estimated that around €10 million was budgeted at the Ministry of Education and Sport for this area. Then, at the beginning of this year, an additional 2 million were provided on the basis of redeployments. It is also worth mentioning that, for example, the FSO, which is somehow linked to all the well-known debate on the gambling law or gambling, where then a certain part of this organisation is divided, they would definitely want 80, but 8 is the right number. There is also a lot of money from the budgets of the municipalities for these purposes. It has already been mentioned several times today, it is also a number of donations, it is also a number of donations. We can point out that for those societies that are organised as sports, the part of the income allocated to them went to around EUR 700 000 in 2015 for this purpose. As it is said, more than half of the funds, say around €5 million, remain unexploited. I've already mentioned, say, hiring athletes and so on. If I just respond a little to the obvious about tax policy, which is also supposed to follow, it will help and so on. In tax policy, we do not have just this relief for donations, and we also have some other measures to do so. Here you might mention the prizes paid by the Republic of Slovenia for these achievements, such as medals, and so on are tax-free, so here is something. Then we also have a regime that is generally accessible to all; the standardised system that we have is convenient and can also be used by athletes and come in a relatively favourable way, at least those who are somehow succeeding and going can get these funds. We also have arrangements after 2007, of course this has been precisely defined as what is a profitable, non-profit activity, and this is also a business within societies, within the framework of institutions for that part which is unprofitable, is also not subject to corporate income tax. Here are quite a few solutions that are provided in tax legislation to help sport. It is true, however, that sport has not been immune to the crisis in recent years. So, if we're talking about donations, about sponsors and so on, there's been some problems. Certain intervention measures taken by the Government at the time also affected how much money can be allocated for sport, either from the competent ministry or from what is collected through gambling, which is an additional tax, at the time it was intended to stabilise public finances. In line with the priorities, this made sense at the time. On the other hand, it was known, but not as much as the state actually managed to stabilise public finances. Some infrastructure projects were mentioned. The fact is that infrastructure projects are particularly difficult to carry out within a few months. This is a matter of time to be spent, and investments take longer. Of course, it always depends on the desire and political will and the current government to bring things to an end. Because it's not about you starting something or thinking about something or discussing it, it's about making it happen. However, some major projects in this mandate ended, from Planica to the Ljubljana Gymnastics Centre. Not least on the Hill we have an interesting center that is established for us and will probably be proud of us in the future. If we move on. Some of the comments were made, but I should still deny them. For example, as tax burdens rise, a provisional VAT raising measure has also been mentioned. I'd say so. In 2013, when the VAT measure was taken, we discussed it on a number of occasions, and in this debate I myself said that in 2013, when this measure was adopted, it was envisaged as a permanent measure, not a temporary measure. In this way, the European Commission was also informed. And the fact that it was regulated at that time in ZIPRS or in two consecutive ZIPRS is due to the fact that it was made in the way it was probably given at that time, it was more ad hoc, but the fact is that it was conceived as a permanent measure. Come in. These were used to raise taxes, DDPOs and so on. Always, normally, forget what we might have done on the income, it's like rewarding performance, we've got some type, if we call it 13. salary regress, is 14. pay this work performance, which is burdened by income, so there's some stress, and then what's over 1.6 average wages. There have been measures. I wouldn't go into this because it's not a topic today, but only so much so that it won't just be a one-sided look at it. As far as tax debt is concerned. I must say that the tax debt is declining, both active and passive. We're very successful at this. There's more than one reason. Surely one of these is that we have updated the legal work concerning enforcement. We have also increased the liquidity of the economy through certain measures. Here I am thinking mainly of a change in VAT, according to the import, there was an impact of about 30 million on liquidity in companies. And then, of course, the second part, which is also somehow linked to the last changes in the payment of those fees that go to pay. So a five-day delay brings something. But the fact is that economic growth is, let's go up, the liquidity of businesses is increasing. And this is also the reason why companies are easier to increase in cooperation with the Financial Administration some of the older debts. And the fact is, there's also a lot of bankruptcy going on, and it's going to take a little longer to get an epilogue. If we have a budget and it's all limited to 18.5 billion, we still have some deficits, but the fact that, in such numbers, about a billion open claims, even if you look from an entrepreneurial point of view, given the income that someone has open claims, is a reasonable figure. I'm not saying we can't be optimized because we're working on it. There is still something to be done, but to come up with some drastic change, so that we can suddenly get 300 million out of billions, that would be an extremely serious issue for my understanding of the economy in terms of their liquidity and so on. It is necessary to take reasonable steps and to bring them to the end in cooperation. The calculations that have been, I think there's been one minor error when we calculate a thousand Euros of some €6 to be that, I don't know if it's true, I don't know how you got the data. But the fact is that 0.3 is calculated according to revenue. So if you look at how much tax revenue a company has, in that year, it can spend 0.3% on donations. And this part, which he's dedicated to, is that if he makes a thousand euros, that means he can lower his tax base by a thousand euros, which means that 19% of those 190 euros are at a specific tax rate. Your solution involves double that amount. That's right. However, I would say that this is not a game with some zero sum when we say a thousand, 380 and so on, because the fact is that when a company decides, it decides where it will invest, whether it will invest in it or in something else. And if we have an investment relief of 40%, then we can weigh where it goes, and on the long arm or mid-term how much it brings. Here is also a thought about how much this would stimulate, as has already been said, possible inappropriate actions because it is so much more favourable a model that perhaps someone, and some are very resourceful to use for the investments of a bypass through various societies. And the fact is, we used to have legislation in this area very flawed. In societies, in financing sport everything was possible because it was not clear what was profitable, what was unprofitable, what was not clear flows of money. There were some amphibians and so on. In cooperation, this must be said, among the Financial Administration, the Ministry of Finance, if we are also looking at the state and sports organisations, such as the Olympic Committees and all others who were interested in this area being regulated, I think it is becoming more and more exemplary. The introduction of certain strong stimulants, which are narrowly targeted, on the one hand has unforeseeable budgetary implications, which is not good from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, we want to know what will happen because the fact is that the state has to operate and not according to the principle that it will. It's a punishment. If 10 million euros were to fall out – what would we do then? But we're going to go to the Ministry of Education and we're going to say, "Look, you've collected 10 million through investments, and now we're going to take you away, for example: funding for sports of children and youth and sports recreation, 5 million is earmarked in 2017, raised by 1.4 million according to the planned budget. Or, for example, in this area for professional sport, where the 4.6 rose now in January for an additional 600 000 euros. It may have been a bit malice, but these are serious matters. Such a departure should be foreseen, it is necessary to know what it will be like and also to place it properly in the state budget, because if not, there are problems. The difficulty of such an approach would draw one parallel to another reform that took place before we came to a crisis. There have also been significant changes in the tax area, particularly when we talk about rates and so on. As a result, we have entered into a crisis in a difficult situation already and in addition to certain tax deficits. It was estimated that, at least at the Ministry of Finance, we calculated that those measures taken just before the crisis had contributed to the country's overall debt of over 20 percentage points. That's not much. If we go then to calculate how much this affected the ratings, how much this affected the possible interest rates we had, and the billion that we're paying now for interest, it's said by some measure when we think, oh, because that's not going to, it's going to be a few million, then you can get into a number of ten million negative consequences. On the other hand, it is certainly not easy to talk about these matters, since it is always necessary to keep in mind expenditure on the other hand. If it's not done enough in the tax area or if it's not restructured there, I don't say enough because it's a matter of policy, if you make a decision like that, you do, but if it's not working on both of us at the same time, we can open up our scissors, they are, and we have trouble patching them up together. Everyone in this country feels that way. But let's go, by 2020 we said, we've got a plan, we're going according to plan, and I think it's going to be done. Come in. Another matter that was so said, yes, the employment of athletes that I mentioned earlier. There are 15 athletes at FURS who we are proud to be with us, because then certain cooperation will be used. The thing is, it's just for them. There's a network of measures here. It's only about top athletes. On the other hand, if we go to the budget cut, we have a sport of children and youth and sports recreation, as mentioned earlier, 5 million, then if we go to the top sports programme of 5.2 million, if we go to the professional and developmental tasks in sport of a million and a half, then we go to look at investments in infrastructure, 2017 is a pretty difficult year from this point of view, but then 2018 is going to be, and it's going to be 2.8 million, which means that again somehow strengthens this part and again, to say, strengthen to that end. If we look at it from a broad perspective, it is said that all measures pursued by the State are taken care of in one way or another. Above all, what is unprofessional sport is said to be donations, membership fees, co-financing of municipalities and so on, there are these funds, if we say so, for non-professional sport. It is also slightly different for a top-notch approach. I think you'll have enough at this stage. I wanted to say a little bit about these numbers, so much so that we can go on with the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u31	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u32	I listened attentively to the Secretary of State, who spoke in particular about the funds allocated from the State budget for sport. Not to be misunderstood, of course, I have no problem with this, he talked about 10 plus 2 million euros to go out of the state budget, and how the tax-exempt awards and how the state has also contributed significantly to larger sports infrastructure facilities. The Secretary of State, he can hold all of this, is not a problem, but I think the main point and theme of today's discussion is how to provide certain funds from the private sector or the economy in addition to the budgetary resources of sport. That's what I think the basic theme is today. Since, last but not least, what comes from the budget needs to be collected first, either by citizens or by businesses. It is necessary to gather into the budget so that this can be sport. In today's debate, we would like only to start thinking and working on how to increase the donations of the real sector or the economy to sport. The Secretary of State will most likely agree that the current regime is rather unstimulating. I am glad that he has even used the expression that this proposal of our marriage is even too strong a stimulus for these things. About the crisis itself. In the crisis, the real sector has certainly passed over or bear the greatest weight, both after the fall of wages and after additional taxes, from the VAT which we have already mentioned today, and the tax on legal persons' income has finally been increased. All of this increases the tax burden of the real economy. With this proposal today, we just want to find a way to make sure that there will be some way for all win-win situations, that everyone will benefit from it, that everyone will be encouraged to make a decision on donations. So that companies that were heavily burdened during the crisis will be encouraged to make it clear that this matter is being paid for. And on the other hand, he's going to get a sport. In two different executions, the Secretary of State gave two different views. In his introduction, he said that this proposal is difficult to implement administratively because it has a number of important details to be taken care of that all are implemented and implemented. On the other hand, he now said that there would even be a risk that some company would misuse this law in the wrong direction for potential tax optimization. At least that's how I understood him. Again, I would like to point out that in this law, security guards exist, that this law clearly states that donations can be used for the costs of competitions, infrastructure and equipment. Three things are clearly exposed. As the debate continues today, I would like Members and Members in particular to discuss how to increase the interest of the real economy in investing in sport. Since it is the simplest thing to say, as Members of the United Left or Desus have said, that from budgetary resources, from the state budget and from the municipal budget, we devote even more to these activities, but they have forgotten that this is also worth it, and that you also have to subtract from the budget by way of taxes. The only point of our solution is that if the country gave up a certain part of the tax, we could do more for sport. Very concretely, if the state gave up 380 euros, on the other hand, sport could get 1,000 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u33	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and co-workers! I am very pleased with this concern of fellow sportsmen, but it is increasingly showing that elections come somehow and then rush with all sorts of proposals. Mr Cuz is also very active in these matters and, yes, I believe that this topic of sport and investment in sport is very interesting and necessary. But it's just one of these whole non-profit sectors. Here we can talk about culture, about education about religions, etc. But there are some things that need to be said or repeated. So, if we're talking specifically about sport, we have quite a few resources. Thus, one financial asset for investing in sport is obtained directly from the country's budget. That's one of the big ones. Another issue where funds are obtained for sport is from the budget of local communities, specifically municipalities. Then it was mentioned that there are still sports foundations where the circus is 8 million, if I remember correctly. Then we have these two other segments when money is received from natural persons through income and also from legal persons through income. But I'll come back to that later. When we talk about sport, it has been mentioned several times that investments in sport have been made or are likely to continue to be abused. There were also indications in the media that various sports companies went through money laundering and so on. But I wouldn't go into it here. I wanted to say that all these reliefs are somehow born and then lose the main focus that they should be in. As far as the concept of tax policy is concerned. Everyone sees the concept differently. As the Secretary of State has already said, there must be some predictability. This measure would somehow not be able to identify what could happen to us, but regardless of the fiscal rule and all other matters, financial consolidation and so on and so on. But let's talk about the facts now. I have written here certain things that may need to be repeated and heard. Thus, the grants provided by the State are intended not only for sport but for humanitarian, disability, social security, charitable, scientific, educational, sports, cultural, ecological, religious and general purposes. So that's it. Next. According to the calculation data of income and income from activities in 2015, 4 000 286 debtors were applied for these reliefs, which is 4% of the total. In particular for sports purposes, unfortunately, it is not possible to obtain concrete data from all of this, but these taxpayers have reduced their tax base by less than EUR 1 million. Next. The total revenue of these debtors was 280 million. This means that the taxpayers could make full use of such a tax relief, which would mean that around €3.8 million would be available. 17 % or 735 of these undertakings benefited fully from a tax relief for grants up to 0,3 %. From the taxpayer's taxable income, totalling EUR 0.3 million. All the remaining 83% of the taxpayers benefited only partially from the tax relief, which amounted to around 0.7 million, representing 0.06% of their revenue achieved. When we talk about what is yet to be gained and what makes it possible for societies to operate, companies acting in the public interest in sport can also have this institution of purpose for the income of natural persons. Any resident may require that up to 0,5 % of the income be deducted under Income Act 2 from the income. What do data show for 2015? A total of EUR 8 million of the available funds was allocated to the grant work. It is said that the beneficiaries of sport, which was a thousand 343, received a total of EUR 692,000 93 from this title. If we are talking about these specific indications now, then it is clear that the benefits for legal persons as individuals are not fully exploited. I don't see why we should be forced into some new relief if we can't even take advantage of these basics. While we do not forget that they are obtained for sport funds from the budget, from local communities and from the FSO. So we have 4, 5, 6 resources, but they're not all used as they should be. When we discuss this issue, we have, on the one hand, a desire for relief and, on the other hand, we are somehow running out of money for various desires and needs. This isn't all going well. Speaking of what this government specifically did for 2016. This must also be said again because people either forget or do not read the data. This means that in 2017 there are €15.3 million for sport by the country. Of which, for sports infrastructure, 800,000. According to 2016, the funds increase by 10.4 %. Especially at the expense of these European funds. As far as 2018 is concerned, the funds for sport amount to €15.1 million and 2 million for infrastructure in particular. The Ministry of Sport, however, has provided EUR 2 million for infrastructure in particular. That was now said with numbers and figures. When we talk about whether there is enough money in sport, whether we don't spend it or not, yes, I agree, I agree that money for sport is never enough as it is probably for all other sectors and sectors. But in the given circumstances, what has been done or what our national options are, I think this is an optimist of what we have. And on the basis of these matters, it is necessary to make a decision. I think it's worth taking into account the government's opinion. And what the Secretary of State, the Ministry of Finance and the Government have said are they trying to do, and I will say these things in their hands that we cannot afford some unpredictable things, even though we have this golden rule to follow. As far as I'm concerned, I think this proposal is kind of nice. We can debate it, but I don't think what we have now is being used in perfection. Once we make the most of it, it's time to think ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u35	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u36	In his debate, Mr Ferruga highlighted two points which said that they were weak points in those two proposals. One of them said that these things could theoretically also be used for money laundering and that such tax reliefs could be used for wrong things. I also have to tell him that I find that hard to believe. Because if I looked closely at the law, I could find out that the law provided for the guardian, namely that this donation could not be received by any society. You can't be an entrepreneur and say, because I'm tax-optimising and lowering my tax base, I'm going to set up a good friends sports association where I'm going to make donations for the operation of a sports society, and in fact, I'm just going to lower taxes on an enterprise. That's how it's done. The law states that only a society acting in the public interest can receive donations – you know what the procedure is for you to get the status of a society acting in the public interest – or sports companies, associations and clubs registered in Slovenia and implementing an annual sport programme at the national or municipal level. If one of you is a municipal councillor, he also knows how this procedure for the adoption of annual programmes works and who is implementing these things. Potential addressees are very limited. It is really about societies, relationships and clubs that are not actually fictional, but they really train young people and help young people to mature into successful athletes. So I hope that at least this dilemma of Member Ferluge is eliminated so that this law can be applied to a tax spinner or to money laundering or abuse. That's one thing. However, the second point he raised in his debate is that the current system of tax reliefs with this 0.3% is such that companies do not fully exploit it. The government wrote, for example, that the companies that were applying this thing actually reduced the tax base by a million, but it would be an area of 3.8 by law. Member Ferruga has implemented from this why we would now be introducing new arrangements and new solutions, if the current regime is not fully exploited. After talking to different people, they told me that this thing is not fully exploited because it is not interesting because some administration sometimes draws more time than simply giving money out of your pocket. I have said before a concrete example that, under this arrangement, Member Ferlug, which we have today, if an entrepreneur gives a thousand euros to a sports society, has a lower tax of €6. And you probably understand that for these six euros, it is easier for many people to draw their wallet and make a contribution to society out of their pocket, because for these six euros it is simply not worth running all administrations, I speak on condition that now some will be surprised if this is about espacies, companies that do not have an ideally high income. For companies with extremely high incomes, 0.3% means something and for small businesses much less. And once again we come to the essential point that the system we are proposing would in fact be more interesting for businesses and would certainly be more useful. And of that, once again, I would have had more sport, and the country might not have to contribute that much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u37	Before continuing the debate, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you. A few words might have been a replica, because I was a little misunderstood. When I said that there was too much stimulation, I thought that some would choose to avoid, or possibly misuse, not to significantly increase, the funds for investment in sport. I must also stress this, this is not a contradiction when we talk on the one hand about administration, on the other hand about monitoring what can happen to us if the system is born and controlling the resources needed to do so. You're talking about, like, a security guard. We have a number of guards in our laws. That is also why our laws are relatively complicated. But all the options can't be predicted. The fact is, whether the guardian is written or not, it has certain dissuasive effects if it is a fine, but it does not rule out that someone will not use it. And in the case that we have thousands of small debtors, where it is likely that someone will be subject to control, is low, because there are not enough resources and everything else that can be controlled, and there are also possible evasions that can be lower, medium, larger, at least I hope, it would not be, but this is a question where questionability is also about implementation. And when we talk, perhaps another definition, or distinction, that may be useful. We talk about donations and we talk about sponsors. When we talk about sponsors, there's no counter-winning. Now let's move on. Now we're talking about donations. You, as a party advocating for the economy, for higher added value, are primarily stimulating for my notions of business. And the business you stimulate, you stimulate, and you elevate it in this case through sponsorship, not donation. The company does not have a counter-supply through the donation, so the maximum added value that would be achieved in this case is not achieved. The maximum added value is achieved in this case when someone enters into a sponsoring contract, from which the company benefits, the company will have this as a tax-recognised cost, on the other hand, this tax revenue at the level of the company, but the fact is that through advertising this company will allow for greater reach, greater sales of its products, higher added value and thus more funds for itself, for investments, for employees, not least for taxes for that country and for transfers to our citizens. When we're talking about when you said that taxes are collected, then they're redistributed. We also have a case where no tax is collected, we have some incentive measure in the field of sport infrastructure, which is in the field of VAT, where a reduced tax rate applies if you are broadcasting sports infrastructure, is 9.5% instead of 22%. The calculated impact I have here is about €7 million per year. This is also something, and something contributes in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u39	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u40	The Secretary of State says that there is too much stimulation that he doesn't mind if the money goes to sports, but that he can still encourage certain abuses. Of course, Secretary of State, people everywhere can cheat on other things if they are of that nature. You know how many questions there are, whether it's an account or not. I think it's a matter of inspection and supervision to control if things are legal. However, I think that I have already explained to Mr Ferrugi that, in my opinion, there are enough guardians in the law that this law cannot be misused here for the unjustifiable tax optimisation of companies, because it is clearly written, which societies and for what purposes. That's the next thing you set up. Donation or sponsorship. Yeah. We're talking about donations today. Sponsorship is, I'll say, a tax-recognised expense if I used the right term. With sponsorship I don't even have any such exaggerated problems and problems. But you know who sponsoring is interesting. One company will conclude a sponsorship contract with a successful athlete, who is publicly well-recognizable because of this sponsoring contract, as you say, it expects certain countermeasures. In this sense, it is against winning that it promotes the brand of a company that lends money to this athlete. But in order for you to get a sponsor contract, you have to be an established athlete, you have to have a career behind you, and by then the story is still very long. The ones you're nodding, I'm going to give you a very specific thing right now. Normally, for successful athletes such as Peter Prevc, such as Ilka Štuhec, and could also list them, there is an interest among companies, even in certain segments of competition, so that they can get a sponsor contract with them. But normally, there is a much greater interest in sponsors in these successful athletes as well. On the other hand, look now, let's say volleyball despite Kamnik, which trains young people, but I don't know if this is an interesting investment for the Triglav Insurance Company or for any other companies in terms of sponsorship. They can be socially responsible companies. We also have socially responsible companies in the local area. But I say again that we are talking today about the donations that we want to help those sports associations, clubs and societies that train the youngest ones who are at the beginning of the journey. All right, Mr. Ferlug, since you're nodding like this, let's go. You can call the number Mengeš Jumping Club. Have you ever heard of this? He's training a lot of young jumpers from my village. They go around Members, Mayors, Entrepreneurs, all possible people. They go from Pontius to Pilate and ask for funding and for the signature of a sponsoring contract. But they simply say companies, unfortunately, you're not interesting to us. Those who are municipal councillors then come to us to support these societies a little more from the congregation budgets. You can even nod off like that, but it's easy for companies to behave rationally and certain companies and relationships are not interesting for sponsoring. That's why we're going back to donations and we're doing these donations in a way where it's not interesting for a company to invest in a society, because it's going to say, because I'm not going to have any of this, their athletes aren't going to show up, the company is not going to be more familiar with it, let's give them at least one interesting thing. This is because, from a tax point of view, it is interesting for them because they will reduce their tax base. That's our point. This is the point of making the tax system such that companies will also be paid to invest in unknown or less-known societies, associations and clubs that train young athletes at the beginning of their careers. I hope you understand that, and at least I don't mix sponsorship and donations. It's an essential difference. And once again, we are talking about donations today, where no counter-supply is expected.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u41	Replica, Mr. Marko Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you! I have to replicate to Mr. Tonin. Besides, I wasn't on the spot to look at Mengeš's Skating Society, but I'm 100% sure there's at least one poster of someone sponsoring, like in any hall for any society. So please don't tell me it isn't. These people, who have posters or whatever, have donated or sponsored something. So you wouldn't talk about it. But it has to be said that such a game, a game of words doesn't go anywhere anyway. Let us be clear, as has already been said, that whoever wants to give is, of course, dependent on the company itself or the espionage if it has the means to afford it, but it has the potential. So far, legislation has made this possible. Of course, everyone would want more and better, but to talk about the fact that only the best receive certain funds and others do not get, is not true, sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u43	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u44	Ambassador Ferluga, of course, also has Mengeš Society sponsoring donations and all sorts of things, because otherwise it could not have worked. But the important problem is that they struggle frantically because these resources are too small. Not enough! That's the point, because you're wondering what the problem is. This is exactly what it means to make a system that will be more interesting for businesses to decide on these donations. He's got, like, today, and if I'm using this company, he's got some sponsors and donors. There are also their logos and everything on these matters. But these are, in particular, companies that are socially responsible today, which, as I said, want to invest back in the environment they come from. However, believe me, in this northern Ljubljana end from which I come, you also have a number of economic, financial, even a balancedly successful company, which is not so socially responsible. And perhaps such tax arrangements, such a stimulator, would encourage them to invest more in sports. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u45	Mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor. Prepare Mr. Joseph Horvath and the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go, mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Well. Now we have to decide here whether or not I will first decide what we are talking about today. Are we talking about taxes or are we talking about sports? Are we also talking about any connections in this regard? And we must either define ourselves or we must define ourselves to what we are actually financing or to what kind of solution, as proposed in the law, we are investing, investing and so on. We are talking about sport and the importance of sport, the importance of sport in this country and in this society and the relation to sport in this country in this society and in this coalition. That's what we're talking about. I would be very interested here in the opinion of the Minister for Sport and Education on the impact of such a solution on sport. I think that what we are talking about here is taxes, and insinuations, what this solution will do, and what will contribute, and what will happen, and so on, see, this is fogging or finding a needle in a haystack, that time will be spent, that the debate will turn away, that the coalition will confirm or not confirm this law, whatever it is, and that the matter will go forward. But here's the point, and first I'm going to start by responding to these taxes. Look, tax is irrelevant for the state, for the fiscal rule, for the golden fiscal rule, for any rule. Fiscally, it's an insignificant cost. That's why nothing's gonna happen. I'm not going to give any comparisons as much as I've put in banks as I've put in banks, but it's irrelevant, you don't know. And secondly, how many companies are now going to cheat here and so on, again shows the attitude of this government towards entrepreneurs and businesses. Does it show that he has everything to do with fraud here — or what, the esteemed secretary of state?Oh, my God! They're not all cheats. And it's already said in advance, how now, due to some additional tax relief for sport, money laundering is going to happen and I don't know what else is going to happen. Come on! This is a disappointment to operate on this minimum tax relief at all. The second is that some do not take advantage of all the donations and so on and that this percentage is, I do not know how much. In short, it's not used, it's used as a unit. It's a statistic. Someone said yes, statistics could be a lie. It's some kind of average. A very good company could have taken full advantage of this donation, and it would have been even more, but it can't. So many and so many who can't actually take advantage of it. And here you go on some average, like in this country we always want to go on some average. As we go to the averages, we are average rather than stimulate and stimulate those who are above average. And now I'm done with taxes here because it's not a fundamental issue of tax. And I'd expect the Minister for Sports here. First of all, we're investing in sports. And how will that be seen? This relief will be known when young people, adolescents, children, and so on will have more sports for free, very domestically speaking. Or that more could be involved in certain sports activities. And that's the point. More people will perform sports activities, more athletes or recreational or professional or will be easier to compete or easier to practice and so on and so on. And not just the young, but the older. Here we need to look at some statistics on how many people are doing it in this country, how many children are doing it in this country, how much they could do it, and how much they should actually do it, and what are the goals that sports activity has set itself to achieve in order to achieve some goal. And now look, in this country we have adopted a resolution on the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia 2014-2023. One of the financial objectives in this resolution is to achieve the amount of EUR 100 per capita in the country in terms of funding. This is the goal, in this resolution adopted by this State Assembly, which was proposed by a government that was then, but is valid for a 10-year period and is binding on all governments. That government doesn't seem to be. It whistles at these documents that are written, and at these things that are written in sports. This isn't about spending. The Secretary of State is looking at this solution, this proposal through expenditure, what will happen through expenditure, and the fiscal rule and the golden fiscal rule. But look, sport is an activity that enriches the quality of an individual's life. I set thesis that this solution will increase the quality of individual life. I'm setting that thesis. Give me an antidote to let the government say that this solution in the law will reduce the quality of individual life if it can do so. I have an argument because there will be more money, and as a result, there will be a greater likelihood that part of the money or all the money will go into making life better for many. Here we can also say, and we are talking about sport, that sport has the opportunity to bring people together and achieve everyone, regardless of age or social belonging. Whether this solution will result in greater integration of people or in the impact of sport on social dispersion with this solution. I think that people will be better socially provided, they will have a better quality of life with such a solution. Then we can also continue with the solutions that all sports have to do. Let's say it's a motional ability. So I want to know where the Minister of Health is here to tell you how many smaller waiting lines we're going to have, because there's going to be more mobility, less disease and so on. Look, these are scientific and professional studies on sports. I think that the Ministry of Finance is not one that should have a decisive impact on such matters and on such solutions relating to sport and people, not on naked finances, statistics and so on. That is why I am talking today about what this solution actually brings to the well-being of people, what it brings to volunteer work, to socialisation, to health, to physical, mental, social, social, and so on. It's all about sports. That's what the resolution says. That's what the same country accepted. And something else. Here is also the question of what is the attitude of this government and this coalition, if it rejects these proposals, to societies, to people working in these societies, to volunteering and so on. And this aspect is not being discussed today, although I think it should be, and that this solution is not only proposed for someone to have tax relief and pay less tax and so on, but that the consequences will be positive for people. And that's the essence of politics to do positive things for people. That's the point. And if it's your government that's going to do something positive for people, then do something positive for people. I also agree that this article may be a bit awkwardly written, and with regard to the donations of all these amounts written here, but this can be corrected in the next reading. Adopt this law, we will support it, tell its Ministry of Health, tell its Ministry of Sport and then get something out of it. It is of minor importance, however, the Secretary of State, to what extent this will affect public finances. Minorn. And don't work out of an elephant fly! I would like to know what the Government is thinking about how much this solution will lead to people being healthier, people being happier, and having a richer life. That's the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u47	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Mr. Christmas, did you want a word? The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance has priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u48	I have to respond a little - the attitude towards sport in this coalition, however, I have to say that the decline in funds that was previously significant has gotten angry, and we hope that this trend is slowly turning in a different direction, so some relationship is obvious. When we talk about tax significance and insignificance, when we look at one and the only and only narrow solution – okay. But when we look at the attitude toward all other areas, we start to wonder about something that is also forgotten, even when we talk about positive effects for people. For example, we also have a culture after all, we have a humanitarian activity, we have a number of activities, and we always have to look for a balance; we say, we are looking for a good solution, we are looking for a balance between everything and we are looking for the means to ensure it. And when we've got this covered, it's fine. Your view of this is that maybe here in sports it would be ideal for this. What about someone who looks at culture, someone who looks at social issues, someone who looks at something else? Thus, the fact is that each one has a slightly different view, these views need to be collected and pursued by a common policy. That is also why the current tax solution is in some way balanced, allows donations, provides a fixed share, and this is certainly not the €6 that have crept back into your mind or told you again, and I have already denied it to you. If it is a donation, it is a thousand euros, and if it is within that 0.3 per cent of revenue, then, logically, a thousand 19 euro effect or – I apologize – 190 euro effect, but I don't know where these 6 euros are constantly coming from, because these 6 euros are not. [[…]] If we go from here to here. So we are not talking about this; but the quality of life can be guaranteed in different ways. Well, the view is that this measure – and even when it is said, the different consequences that would have been, is not about entrepreneurs who are supposed to be cheaters and so on, but there is always a percentage where monitoring of this or the application of tax legislation in the way it was intended is somewhat foreign. Well, we can talk about a percentage here, but the consequences are and should be considered. The consequences of control also need to be considered how much it will cost, how much administrative complexity costs and so on. This government has the goal of debirocraticizing, simplifying the system and so on. This is among the tax policy objectives and is not in line with the objectives we have set ourselves. That is also why it comes true when we talk about opposition, I think we have justifiable opposition, and certainly not to look at it in such an isolated, narrow way, because it is also difficult for you to come up with some valid or constructive answers. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u49	It's a replica. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, excellent, distinguished Secretary of State, I agree with you that other areas should also be looked at. Propose them! It's easy, I'll give you the article. Look. Here, where it says that it is a sport society, add culture to the rest, education and so on. You already have a diction in the law. The diction where we're talking about donations, you have a provision in the Income Act, you write down the diction, you put it in, and you come with a proposal in another reading. That's how we solved this problem, isn't it? You'll need five minutes or ten minutes of time, and the Ministry of Finance experts will do that to you. You have an upper limit, and of course there is no problem. The government can fix this if it wants to. Only then not to reject the law, but to get it forward. Well, this is my personal proposal; I don't know what the proposer will say about it if anything happens. But the other one. Look, the money in sports stopped falling, you said. What a success! Yes, you said, “the means have stopped falling for sport”. See, you need to make quality: quality in sport, quality in life, improve the quality of life of people and so on. It's not a success. You've had economic growth for two years. So don't brag about things that aren't praiseworthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u51	Mr. Secretary of State responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u52	That's it, I'll get back to the balance I mentioned earlier. You yourself have taken one step in an interesting direction when you said that from the point of view of public finances is negligible. At the next step, you said, and add everything else to it. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We have set up a specific policy and these funds, which you call negligible at this point, you have this proposal at the next moment, when they are no longer negligible. And that's what I'm talking about, when we're talking about some balance, when we're talking about good solutions, and when I'm talking about that eventually, all the resources are needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u53	Mr. Joseph Horvath, here comes our time, you have the word. Here you go. And after you, the magus. Alenka Bratusek and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. It must also be in your interest to co-chair these meetings of the National Assembly in order to make the debate as qualitative as possible. I estimate it's quality. But it can be improved by you because you have the power to invite “per immediately”, the Minister responsible for sport, and the Minister responsible for the health of our citizens and citizens. In fact, these two ministers I mentioned should actually be sitting here today. I am pleased that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, who always tells us that our proposals affecting the budget are poor because they are reducing tax revenues. So we in this country should not do anything in the field of taxes, because we would reduce tax revenues, we can only raise tax revenues with new and new taxes, and this coalition works. The proof is a mini-tax reform, which was not, and the economy hit, when I compare the 2017 budget and the 2017 budget balance, for 59 million, the economy hit harder. On 2 April 2014, at the time of the government of respected colleague Alenka Bratušek, we adopted a resolution on the national sport programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the 10-year period 2014-2023. 77 votes for, none against. New Slovenia completely in. And what are we doing today? We are only following this National Programme of Sport in the Republic of Slovenia. We waited three years. Should we wait? Is it true that the period of this coalition is slow now or is it quick to resolve – should we now wait for a new coalition? This document, which I cited, is an undertaking for all governments during this 10-year period. And what do we want, what is our goal? Our goal is to look for all sources of funding for Slovenian sport, especially here we want to activate not funds from the state budget, but private funds. That's why we're talking about donations. And ladies and gentlemen, many studies, diplomas, doctoral assignments and so on, are clear about the fact that sport has a great impact on the economy. Sport has a big impact on the economy. This economy, I stress, the private sector, wants and gives to Slovenian sport, does, but let us give this, as the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia says, give this donation tax incentives. What are the support mechanisms for sport? I quote from this national sport programme that we cannot implement the programme part of the national sport programme 2014-2023 without the appropriate state support mechanisms. The State is pursuing public interest by maintaining an incentive tax policy for the development of sport. When will you begin, respectable coalition? It may be that this proposal is not ideal; we have a second reading, make suggestions on how to change, but that it will still be an encouraging tax policy. And don't say that we are now stepping and taking the wrong steps in terms of financing sport. We are only following the National Programme of Sport in the Republic of Slovenia or, perhaps easier for you, modify the National Programme of Sport and delete the text on the country's encouraging tax policy. I won't be in Planica this year because I'm embarrassed. Why? Because Slovenian athletes and Slovenian sports in the national opinion are very high. The way politics works, we answer ourselves. When I post a picture of Ilka Štuhec on Facebook and write, bravo, congratulations Ilka, you are Slovenian ambassador and so on, some commentator writes to me what you as a politician have done for this success. And then, of course, I blush. But this is for some proposal, a small step towards better financing of Slovenian sport, towards greater involvement of private resources. That's what this is about. And why not take advantage of this broad opportunity? Someone said, he counted some of the big Slovenian companies and he said, it's enough that big companies, Helios and so on, finance sports. You know, these big companies aren't in Pomure. Are our children, our youth, any less valuable Slovenian youth who does not get as much funding as here in central Slovenia for a sports society, football or any other? Since the representatives of the associations come to me in the letter, and they say to me, Member or you can tell what kind of pomur company, I would need 2, 3, 5 thousand euros for this and that equipment. And it's athletes who reach the Olympic standards! Large companies here around Ljubljana, you know, unfortunately they don't see Pomurje. What is the economic situation in Pomour, and you know it and we will talk about it. Indeed, I have enough of this by the Government or, more precisely, the Ministry of Finance, whatever we propose, some stimulating tax policy is always the answer: yes, you know, that's not possible because tax revenues will be reduced. For God's sake! So we can't do anything and we can't do anything! I just can't buy that explanation anymore. I say this, and I repeat, sport has a great impact on the Slovenian economy. Who are the best ambassadors? Slovenian athletes! I'm sure the ratio between the number of people in the world who know, say, Tina Maze, and those who know our first head of diplomacy, that's, say, 10 million to one. And don't let the Minister for Foreign Affairs blame me. These are ambassadors, and through these ambassadors it works, economic diplomacy also works. Diplomacy through Slovenian athletes. And why don't we give some espionage to the village to give a donation to some village sports society, no matter what sport discipline he's engaged in. Why don't the state, I apologize, why shouldn't this donor's country even stimulate him a little bit? Let's just remember where Peter Prevc started, the world-renowned ski jumper. He started on the Bregarca Jumper in the Valley Village. He subdued you; therefore, in some village environment he began. Why don't this, including the village society or the municipality, if you want, get the opportunity to donate by espionage or other entrepreneurs, and why don't the state then say, yes, we give credit for promoting, financially promoting sport, in the form of a minimum tax relief. The state or fiscal rule will not fail. The problems are elsewhere, as I said before, the problems are that the structure of the state budget is not good. That is why the structural deficit is increasing, and that is the problem, but that is certainly the content of another meeting. However, I would really like, Mr Vice-President, your opinion, whether you think it would be good to invite this meeting, now is the time, Minister of Sport and Minister of Health, to give them some insight into Slovenian sport in terms of the implementation of the National Programme of Sport in the Republic of Slovenia. For your efforts and your efforts, I am already grateful in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. I would also like the Government to be even better represented, but in her opinion it is enough, and I can only wish there were two other ministers, at least two other ministers or ministers, to follow the course of this agenda item. But I'm sure it's your observation. Your suggestion is more than in place. Let's continue with the mags. Alenko Bratusek, get ready for the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! I am one of the 10 who, with her signature, allowed us to talk about this today at a meeting of the National Assembly, and when I listen to you, I was still right to give this signature to the general debate. Why? Because if I say so myself, we've heard quite a bit of hunting and it's only right to talk about it. It is not enough, it is not enough to say, yes, we support sport, we support children, and on the other hand, as soon as there is a concrete proposal on the table, of course you are against. Whether this is the right, best solution, if it isn't, I would expect the Secretary of State to tell us what that right solution is for better conditions, especially for children working in sports societies. I can tell you on my own experience that even for football companies, whether it is the first sport in Slovenia, in the world, it is not easy to get funds, sponsors or donors. It's not easy. Comrade Ferlug, it's probably easier with Luka Koper in Koper, it's a state-owned company, it's a matter of whether it's right to give money only to Koper, maybe it should be somewhere else, but there are societies financed by 100 percent of parents. Is that right? I don't know. I think it is not and that children across Slovenia should have equal conditions, whether or not Luka Koper is in their congregation. So today we are talking about two things; we are talking about sport and we are talking about public finances. The Secretary of State says this will now dilute the public finances system, although we do not even know what the financial consequences are. One observation was that there were no financial consequences, and immediately after that this was not possible under the fiscal rule. These are interesting findings. Next, this one was really hunting that you were able to stop the decline of the funds for sport. Mr State Secretary, I suggest you look at the budgets of past years, take into account the 2013 budget and you will find that today you have one billion tax revenues more. And you, as a great success, point out the halting of the decline in resources for sport. This is actually a mockery of all those who engage in sports in our country. Also mentioned were the elections, the EPP, the propaganda that we receive such laws in the National Assembly – of course by the SMC. Now I'm going to remind you of your EPP and your propaganda. You probably remember 2nd January, so much. When the opposition's colleagues proposed this, the SMC's position was that no, it's not working, it's hurting the economy. But after a little public opinion crisis occurred, linked to a SMC client, a decline in customer popularity, the president and so on, then a proposal came from your party that January 2nd should be a holiday. Who's a populism in this country now? There's another case like this. Our client has introduced a law into the procedure on, if I may say domestically, pouring alcohol at sports events. You just turned him down, one! Today, such a proposal comes from your side. What is that other than populism? And you can't read this to others if you're alone at the top in populism. And we could list it. Not to be in this particular marriage at the same time! Now you refuse, and then you'll find that this isn't so bad, and you'll propose it. That way I can populate the first self-reading. Now it's about VAT. I didn't know you SMC colleagues were so good at reading other people's thoughts. That's when I didn't meet you in politics near the government. I will tell you again clearly and loudly: the value added tax was raised in 2013 as a temporary anti-crisis measure and is therefore enshrined in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. If you ask me today if you want to lower it, my answer is no! But at the same time, when you have legalized a steady VAT increase, you should burden the work on the other hand, relieve the cost of work. No, you've done a good job walking around 250 million VAT hikes at 3% economic growth, and on the other hand, you just haven't done anything. But don't lie because it's a lie. Don't lie. It is likely that those of us who were involved in the implementation of the policy at the time, however, we know what we were doing and what we were saying. VAT was a temporary measure enshrined in the Budget Implementation Act; Miro Cerar, the Government of Mira Cerar, this coalition that is now in operation, entered into the System Act, the VAT Act. These are the facts. Once again, even if I had run the government on my own, I would not have proposed a VAT reduction back to levels before 2013, but, at the same time, I would have to look at what on the other hand can be reduced in other tax revenues. These are the facts. Please don't make them and don't lie. Even if in this national assembly, where the Members say so, we say everything, we need to speak résumé. Obviously, according to the coalition, these two laws will end today and I would like to hear sincerely if the Ministry of Finance or the Secretary of State is the most appropriate representative of the Government to explain to us how, with what measures, with what financial incentives, if at all, how much of the billions of additional money they will spend on sport. And we're not talking about top sports, we're talking about the sport young Slovenians and Slovenians are engaged in. I will not repeat how important this is for their health, for their well-being, but at least let us shed some light on the direction in which sport is involved, sports activity – and above all on how many young people are involved in sports – in what way you think to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u57	Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u58	Only when it's said that I'm lying would I like to see some argument about it. You know what, stability program, supplemental, 2013. This is a matter published on the Ministry of Finance's website, where I am currently working. On the 5th page, it says this: “On the revenue side, you will be the most important two permanent measures: an increase in the general VAT rate by 2 percentage points and a reduction in the rate by 1 percentage point and a renewal of the real estate taxation system”. I'm sorry, it's just that it's written in a document that wasn't – I mean, it's been sent to and published publicly and that's why I'm reading from it. So I say: 2103 is envisaged as a permanent measure. This is a document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; up is the coat of arms, writes the Government, writes the date, has been published publicly. I don't think I'm lying. Now that's it. So that's what I come from, it's from the government's official document. If we move on. I'm glad you signed on to the initiative. In this I see nothing wrong, because it seems wise to me that the things you Members think should be debated; and so it is. It was given, you made a proposal, it's good that it's a proposal. Now what kind of guy is he, I think, if he opens the debate and we talk about it. I think that the National Assembly is dedicated to this and policies that are, how they are set up, whether they are implemented successfully must be shaken. You also have every right to ask the Government what it is doing. So it's no problem. The figures, at the beginning I also said a few numbers from the budget, what, how, for what purpose, where the additional 2 million were also earmarked for the field of sport. I also said the figures going, say, tax measures that are not the only ones, that some other measures are already embedded in tax policy and that I stand behind them. [[…]] But that I said that I don't know that in this sense it's going to spread public finances, I don't think I know if it makes sense to answer such things because I think it's more provocative, so I wouldn't go into it. [[…]] Even with this one billion more, I think we have explained a number of times. At this time we still have – the deficit is no longer a two-digit number of GDP, not a budget, not a GDP – but a much lower one. We've told you how long it will be and we stick to this plan. With this we have confidence both at home and abroad that what we have set ourselves is also being carried out. Which is, I think it's right. This is then reflected through credit ratings that mean less to many people but mean less to them, and to those who may be in debt and so on, how much interest they charge on loans; whether it's residential, whether it's consumer, or whether it's investment companies — whatever. You can see that. So much and so little goes on their interest side. On our side, according to 2013 it is more interest because we have so much more indebtedness, and this has to be paid in some way. We are doing well to refinance, and last but not least, the Treasury has received an international prize in this regard in order to effectively manage it, to introduce and take a few good steps with these replacements, so that we will pay substantially less for interest than we would otherwise have if these measures were not taken, but this is it. We're still talking about a billion interest. At the same time, we are talking about reducing deficits according to plan, as has been said. I think that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u59	Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u60	Mr. Christmas, if you're reading, you need to read more. That second sentence, the real estate tax, you read it so quietly because it's not there either. But I'll tell you again, I'll tell you again; yes, even if I ran the government on my own, this measure would be permanent. They would have written it in the Value Added Tax Act. But at the same time, we'd be burdening either people, or the economy, or partly each other. You didn't do anything. Nothing. You ate or yes, you ate these 250s, about 250 million euros that it brings, even slightly more at the rate of 3% economic growth, they are brought up by VAT. Therefore, I suggest that in the future you explain your government's government's policies, your parties, but it is true that you will end up explaining very quickly because this fight is not enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u61	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare to be Mrs Vojka Šegren and Mr Zvonko Lah. Mrs. Mursich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about a couple of laws, the Income Act and the Law on the Income Tax of Legal Persons, and we will continue to face the Education Act. All the same candidates. I must say that all laws, when you look at them like that, are generally well-intentioned, but whether every well-intentioned proposal is also a good one, but here is the question. The question is also whether we can afford to reduce our income and, on the other hand, we increase our expenditure. Of course, I will get an immediate response from the proposer, we will stop investing in the recapitalisation of banks and we will be able to give money for relief and it will be significantly easier; and I agree with this, Commissioner-respected. It is also true that much of our money has been diverted into tax havens and elsewhere, or some have just filled their pockets and it is only a matter of time before this money begins to return and when the law enforcement authorities will do their job and cease to exhaust the country and call them to account. Personally, I do not think that the judgments that will be handed down on this issue will be sufficient. In these specific cases, I believe that the country should take a step forward and put this money back into the state budget. During the debate there was a talk about private resources, but on the other hand we have state resources. I don't think we should forget that the state funds collected in the budget are our private resources. We deserve them, we give them from the means of pay to the state budget, and that is also part of our resources, so here too is our thought. I think that we really need to take these steps so that those who have come with unprofitable jobs will return these assets to the country and even those acts will be punished. Of course, there are solutions, we just have to hear them and take a step forward. It is also true that Slovenia is recording moderate economic growth and it would be most appropriate if all these laws we have, which we will still have this year’s mandate, are confirmed – but what does this mean for the future? The budget for 2017 and 2018 has been adopted and is therefore also on the spot, the applicant has indicated the application of this bill, both laws, to enter into force in 2019. That's when the fiscal rule will apply. We confirmed the fiscal world yesterday, and I believe it won't be easy for us. This will keep an eye on macroeconomic frameworks, and I believe that the Fiscal Council will carry out its task properly and will also be part of its task of taking particular care of fiscal consolidation and ensuring that the state debt is reduced and not increased. I also believe that people would want a lot of things, and I would like to do it myself, but I cannot agree to go back to any law that has already been passed — I will not say that I have accepted it — by the Public Finance Balance Act, where it now appears that it has done much damage, but the state has kept itself at that time. We can't close our eyes so we can afford more than we can create. Here it might be appropriate to remind myself of the debate of the proposaler, Mr Tonin, on the balance of the budget when he said: "Before today's discussion on the budget balance, the journalists asked me in the hallways, what is the balance anyway. At home, I would say in Slovenian that this is a correction of the existing budget. Every master well knows that as much as he created over the year, he can spend so much in some way. And this is how the country should work." We all want more for kindergartens, more for schools, more for development, more for economic incentives, we all want this, and we in the coalition, we are not going to argue about it, and here I agree with the proposaler. We must also be aware that we who sit here are representatives of the people. We decide on their behalf, so we are also called upon to treat our public finances wisely and rationally. In particular, we need to keep an eye on the fact that the state budget will not collapse. It's true. In the pre-election period, the candy was shared. We have already witnessed these shares of candy in 2008, but I think we will be a little more prudent in this mandate and we will not make the same mistakes, because I do not think that anyone who makes a mistake will make the same mistake again. And we're going a little bit to the law proposed by the proposer. Personally, I think that he is incomplete and inconsistent because he deals with one group or only one area, sport, and they are in the public interest. On the other hand, we have societies of public interest, such as firefighters, the Association of Drivers and Auto mechanics, which is also financed only by their membership, and they do a lot of good work for our children on September 1st when all the children are still in play and take them to this. Here too, humanitarian organisations are behind us, including cultural societies. You need to look at a broader complex and not just sports. I am certainly aware, however, that sport, which affects the quality of an individual, makes it possible to unite people, to influence public health, to promote voluntary work, solidarity, responsibility, the effects are more than we can imagine. The athletes are also the great ambassador of Slovenia, including all praise and praise. It is true that societies need incentives to develop sports activities in Slovenia, especially in quality work with young people. We all know that young people are perspectives, Slovenia shows the perspective of young athletes. I believe that these young, promising athletes are even more, but unfortunately they are not able to do so, because parents cannot co-finance their sports activities because they have insufficient resources. It is therefore good that funding is high enough to be able to organise and participate in sports events. It also seems to me that it is in place to invest in the assets and equipment they need for their work. Of course, on the one hand, we have resources from local communities and the country and through public calls, through annual sports programmes, but often this is not enough, but parents have to cover certain costs, because professional staff need to be financed. That's why these donations are welcome. In the present law we have the possibility of donations, but it is true that in fact those who donate do not have such a large amount of loot at the end, and in this sense we also need to think a little bit about it. Sports companies encourage the development of sport activities in a qualitative manner. Of course, I mentioned that it makes sense with additional tax reliefs, but such a law, which we have on the table today, I must say that it is incomplete for me, but also nonconsistence, because it only encourages those who work to give donations to sports companies acting in the public interest. There are also many societies that do not gain this status, because procedures are not so easy to gain this status of society in the public interest, but also work at the end of the good and somehow, I will say, create young potential athletes. It is also true, as I have already mentioned, that committed persons already have the opportunity to make donations for humanitarian, disability, social security, charitable, health, educational, educational, cultural and sports purposes. Of course, it's not much, but according to the proposal we have on the table today, if he makes a thousand donations, then he'll have the opportunity to make it easier for a two-pointer of this amount, that's 2,000 euros. I hope that's not actually the most appropriate thing. I don't think reducing burdens indefinitely will bring, however, some real effects. In this place, however, I would like to point out that every law we make that we like should have to look at the income and expenditure side in this way, so it seems to me that we are also thinking that we are losing a lot of money. And where are we losing him? We're losing him in the tax havens. I'm asking, do we really not know how to tax this money that runs out of Slovenia? I think that talks, with a view, with the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia could be done. The assessment of these funds would be, and could also be, intended to finance both sport, cultural activities and humanitarian organisations, and not least to finance kindergartens, which are also our potential. I think there are still many things to talk about, but I think that the actual partial adoption of the law cannot possibly be acceptable, and I believe that we will talk about these things many more times. It is indeed necessary to encourage societies to create young people both in sport and elsewhere, so all these laws and tax laws must be considered as widely as possible. I believe we'll find a way together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u63	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u64	I must certainly thank Ambassador Alenka Bratušek for contributing to the signatures so that we can discuss these matters today and we have today's debate. Hands on your heart, but she also told some unpleasant truths about the coalition. Certainly, this is very much the case with the reading of likeness, that you must first set up a mirror. I listened very carefully to Ambassador Muršičev and I think she was contradictory in some parts. At the same time, it was stressed that things needed to be encouraged that societies needed money and, on the other hand, that the proposal was incomplete and that it was only sport and similar things. I think that today some Members have already said that this matter can be relatively easily remedied in the second reading of the coalition by the majority. Just add those companies that you want to add to the article that says who is entitled to these funds. You also questioned why only societies in the public interest. If you read the law, in addition to associations of public interest, there are also companies that perform the local, that is, the municipal or national programme of sport. You are a congregation counselor, or you have been, and you probably know what this entails. And why we gave these guards, why we didn't say what any society could say — precisely because we don't want this tool to be used as an incentive for unjustifiable corporate tax optimisation. In view of the fact that this would not be misused in the way that I have already said in the debate today that someone who has a business is setting up a society and there is an indication of a donation to reduce the tax base, that would be wrong. That is why we have laid down in the law exactly who is entitled to these funds – that is, those who actually raise and work with young people in sport – and also precisely what activities, for organizing sports events that are now extremely expensive, for equipment and infrastructure, I think they are definitely eligible costs. I'd like to say something else about the calculation. Today, the Secretary of State has repeatedly been concerned that my calculations are accurate. And I'm going to give another concrete example of calculation. A company I don't know, but hypothetically speaking, for a company that, say, has 150 000 euros in revenue and out of those 150 000 euros, 10,000 euros in profits. Let's say we're doing hypothetical calculations on some kind of company that's so well-standing, that it's relatively good at business, and it even has a few profits, which it can then invest in some other activity by choice. According to the current regulation, if the company has 150 000 euros in revenue, it can devote 0.3% of this revenue to donations, which amounts to €150,000 450. That is how much they can spend on donations and can reduce their tax base for that. If we had, for example, 10,000 euros in profits, and if the company decides not to donate anything, it pays 19% of the tax, let's say it pays a thousand 900 euros in tax if it doesn't donate anything. If, say, a thousand euros, following the current regime, is decided to make a donation of thousands of euros, then you can reduce the tax base by 450 euros, i.e. from 10,000 euros to 9 thousand 550, and from this pay a thousand 814.5 euros tax – following the current regime. Our proposal, which does not know some limits, means that if the company decides to make a profit of €150,000 with €10,000, that it will contribute a thousand euros to sport and that its tax base will be reduced twice, that is, by €2,000, and the tax base is then €8,000 and the tax it pays is €520. If I say again, we would say that, according to the government or the existing version of sport, a thousand euros goes to the entrepreneur, 85.5 euros goes to the entrepreneur, and the country loses 85.5 euros in the budget on the other hand. According to our proposal, a thousand euros will be sported, 380 euros will be won by the company and 380 euros will be lost by the country. In short, in a way, we want to provide a much more interesting tax environment, yet once again companies decide to invest in sport. Some of the Members that you discussed today have four sources of funding, namely that it is a country, that municipalities, that it is a foundation and at the end of the fourth variant of private donation or donation, for example, an economy. But the first three are all budget resources. And that we can finance these things from budgetary sources, of course, we need to raise money. Who? Taxed. What we want with the concept of this law is to reverse the matter. Without the State or Government collecting the money with taxes first, then the policy by adopting the budget decides where the money goes, whether at national or local level. We want the economy to be able only to decide which kind of sport will support. So that money does not need to be collected into the budget first and then distributed, but that simply this money can go from business directly to sport. In this concept and in this sense, this law of ours is also conceived. And once again, this law would mainly help clubs, associations and societies that train young athletes at the beginning of their careers, when they are not as interesting for potential sponsorship contracts as some other more successful entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u65	Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mrs Marija Antonija Kovačič. Here you go, Mrs. Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I come from Hrastnik alone, from the congregation with good athletes, we have the Olympic champion, and in general the infrastructure is relatively regulated. I will say that we all agree, in fact, that the quality of life is indeed in a cross-section with sport in some way, both at a higher level and in the general life of the population. Of course, here we have every view of how to enable athletes to finance, that sport in our country will somehow be properly stimulated, and that people will be able to benefit from or benefit from sports. It has already been said that we have tax exemptions concerning income, the income of legal persons and that they have not been used. I myself know this area, and I think that today this debate will also in some way encourage those who may be able to choose from their income as natural persons to contribute, I will say, to sport this income. This awareness of people, too. I am still convinced that, above all, the people who have used this opportunity only 50% to give this income to someone at 0.5%, that this debate will also help to make this awareness of people a decision in this year and will also give their share of the income. When I talked about how sport should be financed, I also think that somehow, in the way that taxes will then be distributed, it is necessary to ask here in some way whether the State collects taxes and then divides them into individual groups, into particular areas, or whether we will encourage essentially such a way that the country, some of the taxes you are proposing today, will be cancelled and individuals will in their own way devote to individual groups of people, societies, sports, or cultural, or some other. I think there are also, in a way, two concepts that we are talking about today. Because if we say that tax reliefs for sport are appropriate at this time, then the country will raise more resources in terms of economic growth and then, of course, it can also share more of them with sport. However, if the state now resigns from these taxes and reduces in some way to the benefit of, I don't know, tax donations, but we can also say that the state resigns and in some ways makes a donation to individuals, these funds. Of course that's the thing, I'll tell you the concept of how to handle it. However, I also do not agree with the fact that the country is, in fact, exclaiming that it has adopted or that it has adopted a national sport programme. I think – at least I have data – that, according to the national sport programme, disability sports programmes, older sports, pilot programmes for the integration of sport, disability and charity organisations will be co-financed; in short, for programmes to strengthen well-being; and in short, sports infrastructure. What is extremely important is also that we must not forget that in the procedure of the National Assembly there is a Sports Act which will have an important impact on the development of sport. This law is already in the procedure and the law will provide conditions for the citizens of Slovenia to engage more and better in sports and movement activities to maintain health. That is why I would be touched – because in the past or past debates that the state does not care that the ministry does not care about how sport develops, what will happen here – and would still mention that the new law will define important innovations. In other words, there will be a uniform system of distribution of public funds for sport, which I think is of the utmost importance for a fair distribution of funds, public resources, to be a renewed system of professional training in sport, to be a free approach for athletes who will be allowed to participate in competition sports – to all athletes, including those who do not receive payment – to regulate and protect the rights of athletes, which is also very important, then the Ombudsman – will somehow be introduced, will arrange the employment of athletes and will also, through all these measures, be more recognizable to Slovenia, which is, in some way, the result of these investments in sport. I also cannot agree that less resources have been allocated to sport. This is also clearly indicated by budgetary resources; of course, the funds are enriched by European funds, which is right. Finally, it is right that European funds are also allocated to sport infrastructure, and in 2018 there will be as much as 2 million funding for sport infrastructure. Why, at one point, sport has also been heavily fed, and as far as resources are concerned, it is certain that the crisis has done its part in the past. And if companies did not operate well or had no profits, they had no turnover, of course they could not devote resources to sport. Given that economic growth is now and that this situation is being improved, I think that the existing tax relief, relief, will certainly also have an impact on the increased flow of resources into individual sports. I would also like to touch on the fact that, even in such places, I come from Hrastnik and Zasavje, and I must say that this is also where companies are allocated, of course, according to their capabilities, funds in the form of grants and in the form of sponsorship contracts. All of this is essentially a combination that is devoted to sport. I will say that I believe that, given economic growth, the situation in sport and the financing of sport will also improve this year and also in the coming years. The proposed law, I don't think it's necessary to increase the funds for sport here, so that the existing law actually makes this possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u67	The word has Zvonko Lah, to be prepared by Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, I would touch what my colleague from SD said earlier, that when the money stolen from the banks comes back, then we can give more for sport and how they work. I think if this government is running for positions in the banks of those people who used to approve of these loans, at least it was an attempt, then it's not the right way for this money to come back soon. Then, of course, they withdrew from the candidacy, but the attempt was this one. Also, the competent minister went to Iceland to see how they were saved when they closed this place down, and all the money came back. Nothing yet, as far as I know. And I don't know how many mandates you're going to need to make this effort start at all. There are targets, just tell me when you're going to start. Before you start, it's hard to talk about the target. As far as this law is concerned, I suppose you know, there was also a talk that the congregations had their invitations to help congregations. It's a bit of a trifle. These are more social contributions to athletes, and they are already well-established athletes. The municipalities have a rule so largely designed that they can give funds to already established athletes on the Olympic Committee list. In the book we had this condition, the criteria are very high, and the invitation is made, and some change can be given from the congregation, but that does not mean anything. We know what the situation is now in primary schools when we drive all these children practically from the threshold of home to school so that they can go to pajamas in school, that the most difficult subject in primary school is exercise. Sometimes, at my age, we couldn't wait for the gym class to get the ball, and after school we usually had an hour, two of us split by the ball, and now they're looking at the easiest way to apologize for those hours. If the school already has a good teacher who quickly learns about talent, something special, such as athletics, then the big problem is how to get these talents into the club, the training, and the cost. I know the case from our congregation, when the state recorder, the national representative, and his parents took him to a competition outside our country, was at the border of the Olympic standard, but if parents didn't pay the cost – the club barely survives, and we know it's a sport queen, athletics. Even when I was talking to one of the fathers who had a biker who spent seven years spinning pedals from pioneer times to older youths, he said to me, "You know what, when my dad started spinning, if he'd been in the club for four years, he'd take all the training, you won, not him. And that's how it happened. I'm very glad that he was just at the club, that he got used to working hard, got work habits and a lot of costs and time was needed. That's why the sport, I think, is the most important at the time when all young people are on computers, on tables, on phones, very little movement, to get them somehow to start playing sports. Even in these younger years, if someone is relatively good at primary school in sports, he draws an example in these younger ones. However, there is no need for financial resources. If we look at our top athletes, such as Primož Kozmus, Ilka Štuhec, Tina Maze – who stood by them? Not the state. Parents, in particular, or certain entourages, who have helped them to have all the conditions for training and performing. Then we boast, and politics sticks later when it reaches its peak. That way this law will not impoverish the state. As a colleague of Shircelj said, this loss of the country's inflows will mean little, but it will mean a lot, for example, for those young athletes where a certain talent is detected, and parents cannot finance the development of this athlete, so that a local smaller entrepreneur can, because it makes no sense to conclude a sponsoring contract, but with some donation above the possibilities that they are now – because these are minor options, it is nothing – support some talent of a young athlete or a club where sponsorship is not yet included, and helps to create possible athletes of such a type as I mentioned earlier. Even the Prevc family — without family and parents — would not be what they are. The fact that the ship's state will be a fair, justly financing everything, believe me, that this money will not come to those small, young talents. Also a disabled sport. We also boast of the success of the disabled or the Olympics of Disabled Persons — it is also probably not the country that has helped these handicapped people to find themselves in sports and achieve excellent results. That is why I think that this is some addition, some possibility for athletes to be helped in that basic, initial phase mainly where parents cannot provide sufficient training in certain sectors or costs to cover all the necessary needs of young athletes for their development. When I spoke to this athlete's parents, he said, now that he's training the marathon, that the costs of the slippers themselves are high enough, let alone the costs of the rest. In cyclists too, those who are professionals receive minimum wages. Believe me, that salary is not enough for the pasta he eats because of his training. They're sacrificing themselves that someone has to stand behind them. So I think it would be a good gesture to support such a law, and then later, if the Sports Act is in the process, the question of whether it will be adopted in this mandate. We have already heard great comments on this law. The money is simply too small and we do not take it all away from the country, but we give those entrepreneurs who want to help some additional relief in paying the tax to the state. Believe me, there will be many, especially in the countryside, where there are a lot less opportunities for training or a lot worse conditions for participation in sports, these young people can be very important. Where there are neither large nor rich entrepreneurs, but what is, who would only be willing to help in this area, would be very pleased and if one small piece of these young athletes succeeds, it will be a great success for all of us. We're gonna miss that money. Let us do more where millions flow away, hundreds of millions, and we have done nothing. Let us be more committed there to this money coming back, not just to murmur about how the money is gone and how there will be some imbalance, injustice against other activities that they also need. At the ceremony, athletes can criticize the state and government as well as the culturers at their holiday. And I don't know how happy we are if one Tim Geiser explains to the press how he won't get anything from the state, that if it wasn't for his father and his efforts and his sacrifice, it wouldn't be. The country has contributed very little to this. He could also criticize the system, and I don't know what else to do, but I don't know if the best thing for the country is going to be what the culturers are this year – without having the money, they're right. And there's all the politics, the top of the policy, and I hope it doesn't happen in sports.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany. Here you go, Mrs. Maria.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to reply to the proposaler's comment from my point of view, or from the point of view of the Desus Group, on financial calculations that cannot be foreseen. Just a little while ago, you were very specific about what companies gain, what society acquires and what the state loses. So I can conclude from this that the state can very precisely predict what will be the inflow to the state treasury under taxes. And if a donation goes from the income of legal and natural persons and thereby reduces the tax base, I should be allowed to use simple farmers of logic, so it is logical to lose the income of the state. Well, my question continued: how would you make up for this loss, in what way, by what measures? And now there's a little bit of my thinking about both marriages. Our coalition contract states on the basis of public financial revenues that the central objective of tax policy is to support economic measures for growth of the economy, for employment, to ensure equal taxation of all categories of taxpayers. It also says that we will effectively collect public benefits and strengthen tax culture, with the adoption of the national sport programme by 2023, in order to take care of the importance of sport for all as a concern for social and social inclusion through sport. It also states that this system will be given greater transparency in setting up sports organisations and all co-financing of public interest activities in sport and, of course, not least control over it. Donations won't solve all of this. Applicants shall propose a new tax relief in the case of grants or investments in sports companies. Both proposals concern tax advantages for legal persons as well as natural persons. The purpose of the grant is to be used to invest in the company's assets and equipment and also to organise or participate in sports events. We know that such duties cannot be accurately foreseen. We also know from experience that the so-called Marble's mini tax reform, which envisaged a reduction in the rate of relief for the amount of R & D investments, a reduction in the rate of relief for the interest amounts in equipment for the purposes of general benefit, the investment of basic agricultural and forestry activities, the abolition of the employment allowance and the abolition of the relief for the donation of political parties. And this reform has not taken place. At our initiative, the only thing that remained in the Income Act was the fourth highest income class. Let me say that tax relief for donations for humanitarian, disability, social security, charitable, scientific, educational, health, sports, cultural, ecological, religious and generally beneficial purposes already exist. But here I wanted to say exactly what he explained very precisely and said with Mr Ferluga's numbers, so I'm giving it up. And, of course, we again see how much tax relief has been reduced from this title. Even under Article 142 of the Income Act, this benefit has not been fully exploited. Therefore, we do not support both proposals, but the question remains, of course, why donations only to sport. When will all other stakeholders be remembered, and how many? I've listed a few of them. And if I jump off the board a little bit, because I'm a representative of the pensioners, the pension box office has been impoverished, and we're not in the green branch right now. How can a fine and handsome pensioner live with a pension at the threshold of poverty? How should sports be involved? How to afford it — as previously said, slippers are very expensive. And I have one more question. How many such proposals have there been and others have they been made by the proposer? How many are there in order to increase the tax? In Desus, we do not support non-systematicism and sometimes opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare the last submitted, Dr Matija Horvat. Mitya, I'm sorry. Excuse me, for the last time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We are Slovenians, and we have reason to be on some of our individuals from the world, the scientific world, for example, from philosophy, or perhaps a little more popular, cooking, catering or scientific spheres, very proud of certain individuals. Of course, in addition to our country, which is so primarily sang by foreigners and its beauty, we Slovenians are most proud of our athletes, but unlike the first groups of exceptional individuals it is sports or sports merit and sports results that provide us with some continuity of pride. It is said that not only one individual appears in one sector, sports, but practically for at least 25 years and before, in the time of Yugoslavia, we have been constantly receiving the pride that individual athletes have given us. The attitude of politics towards sport has always been, I can say, twofold; we are always politicians; we like to invite ourselves to big events, just to mention that this weekend we are receiving a big event in Planica as well as football matches between Slovenia and Scotland, or vice versa, between Scotland and Slovenia. So, we like to expose ourselves very much, we like to blink active athletes very much, and we forget about them many times when they retire. But this relationship bothers me, which we all have when we always have the opportunity to somehow change anything in relation to sport. Believe me, there is still a lot to be done, despite the fact that we have invested over 50, 60 million in sports infrastructure in recent years, and we have also opened up the possibility of marketing this. But it is very interesting, because sport can be divided into two pillars; one is professional, competitive, the other, which concerns all of us, but is this amateur, who is always and more present in our society. Just look what's going on with the Ljubljana marathon. It is said that this way we can promote, as many have said, a healthy way of life. As a result, it is evident that when we measure the data of some countries, including some companies, it strengthens health and thus strengthens the economy. That is why I would like not only to drive to the future government or individuals with eminent athletes with a train to Planica, but perhaps someday – and this is my proposal – we could have a thematic meeting of the Government on the subject, say, sports. And with all the players, a question could be raised, such as the presence of alcohol in the games or the special status of those athletes who are retired or the Sports Act. These are all the materials that are waiting for us in the coming weeks and months. I will support all of this, including this proposal, because I am tired of these empty promises and seeking reasons why sport is not a branch number one, and whenever we receive the success of athletes, we like to expose ourselves to politics. This is how I predict my debate on all these proposals of the law. In a way, I am disappointed that we do not allow the debate on the importance of sport, because there is no industry – show me one – where so high a percentage of Slovenian citizenship is back into something that arouses positive feelings and, as has been said many times today, has a very positive economic impact. I would very much like to tackle the problems of this in a consistent way, because this is not just about active sport, it is about the whole sector, including volunteers and those who are actually investing their own energy in preserving what makes us so happy. Surely the environment is not stimulating. I see no reason why a company, if not emotionally connected to an individual or to a particular sports sector, would invest in this sport at all. The time has passed when large companies were also involved in large events in Yugoslavia. Where do we see Slovenian companies today in Planica, with the exception of one of the major insurance companies? And what is the reason for these Slovenian companies to invest in politics? I understand that we can also open up areas to culture, including voluntary firefighters, but today we are talking about sport. And given that we like to brag about it and we love politics with athletes when they are successful, it seems to me that the first treatment can be supported in order to develop a thought and our thinking in the future, because in the coming weeks we still have very important topics that touch on sport. My firm belief is that politics does not do enough for what sport achieves in itself. I will therefore support this proposal, as will many others who are still waiting for us, in particular so that we can see in the future a bigger picture of what is going on in this area. That we will also be able to encourage those companies that are in some way remote or do not see the interest to encourage them to invest in the environment from which they come, in today's case this is sport. That's how I'm going to support your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u73	Here you go, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u74	I am certainly grateful to the German envoy for his support. I am pleased that he has gone beyond these opposition and coalition frameworks, and in this proposal he sees the well-intention and contribution to starting better times for Slovenian sport. Above all, societies that train and train young athletes are easier to get the necessary funding and thus prepare a good field for future Slovenian top athletes. So, Commissioner German, thank you very much. I hope that your example will also be followed by some other coalition Members and that at least in the first reading this law will see the light of the world. Like I said in the introduction, I'm not saying we're the smartest and we know everything. If it is the will, this proposal, if you have certain comments, can also be improved further in the second reading. However, I owe a reply to the honourable Member, Antonia Kovacic, who said that it was obvious that, in the sense that I had avoided saying the exact calculations of the financial consequences. Commissioner, once again, I must point out that the financial consequences of this law cannot be calculated for a simple reason because we do not know how many companies will decide to donate to sport. Once again, it will be possible to decide a hundred, can a thousand, God forbid tens of thousands, so that some specific estimates are impossible to make on this basis. While in this opinion, the government has provided some information on our proposal for a law that so far, 4 000 286 taxpayers or businesses have decided to facilitate the existence of a tax base for a million euros and that, in this way, some 300,000 euros have been lost or dropped from the state budget. But this is what you are told about the current system, which is obviously not stimulating, and companies do not make very intense decisions about it. It would certainly be a bit bigger to get out of the budget when our law is passed than it is now, because the environment would also be more stimulating or this measure of tools would be more interesting for the company. Certainly, once again, for example, at €380 out of the state budget, there would be a thousand euros on the other side of the sport. So, if we're exclusively funding everything from the budget, that means that if you give 380 Euros to sport, that's how much sport you get out of the budget. It's so out of budget. It's so out of budget. In this proposal, we build on the fact that it is possible to generate a thousand euro from 380 euros from the economy. I have certainly never denied that this proposal would not mean a certain part of the budget outage, but, on the other hand, it would have a number of positive effects on the functioning of sport and thus relieve any municipal or other budget. So I hope these things are clear and clear. The MP also asked me or warned me that I had forgotten to answer the question and that I would be able to make up for this outage from the budget. My answer is very simple: with less employment in the public sector. If you look at the statistics, you find that our government has won the number of employees in the public sector from around 160 000 to 155 000, i.e. for the poor 5,000, this has even been held by the government of Alenka Bratušek and has not significantly increased employment in the public sector and, on the other hand, the government of Mira Cerar has managed to put all of this into the state where we started to reduce the number of employees in the public sector and we are where we were in 2016; so again the number of employees in the public sector has increased by 4 000. This is certainly an opportunity and an opportunity where certain reserves can be sought and no sharp, unpleasant austerity measures need to be taken, but only things that have already been put in place and the number that has already been in place since 2012 must also be preserved in the coming years. If the country managed to keep alive, with 155 000 officials and public servants working in 2012, I believe that this year will succeed. And this is the key point where, of course, is the reserve that could be taken in the event of a failure at the time of the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Mitja Horvat to prepare, and now it's the last reported, mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Dr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Since I have only a few minutes to pay, then let me just express my regret that the applicants and, in particular, the co-signatory of the proposer for the first reading of this bill have used this time for everything but the content of the bill before us. I also, for my part, confirm the assessment that this was a matter of populism and, of course, thank the Secretary of State, who, today, has responded well to the dilemmas that they are. Unfortunately, the proposal you made is unable to improve it, so that we can achieve goals that we will naturally be able to achieve by adopting others [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Gradually, Dr. Mitja Horvat. He's got an advantage in the process. Here you go, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. I'm a little bit surprised, because when I look at this list of people who are registered to the word, on the applications that were filed until yesterday, I can't find a respected colleague of Matjaž German, so I'm asking you if there are any ways that I don't know that the list of candidates can be replaced. I would therefore like to ask you for an explanation as to how honourable Member Matjaž Germany has been given the floor in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u79	Mate Matjaž Germany was the first on the list of applicants, and because of his leadership, he was unable to discuss the whole day and moved to the last place or to the end. That's what I think. Everything's fine. Proposer, please, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u80	Mr Horvat, if you look at today's order of debate, writes under the general debate on the proposals of the laws of Matjaž Germany, hesitate to SD. I believe that this procedural intervention was intended to punish the coalition Member for supporting the opposition proposal. But I don't want to stick to what Ambassador Horvath was implying that we were talking about all the other things. The only trip I made out of this topic was on the basis of the request of Ambassador Desus, who wanted to know where I would have made these additional funds or the loss of these financial resources to replace them, otherwise I was only talking for an hour about the law, the solutions and explaining where things were misunderstood or misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I took an interest in accompanying the debate between colleagues and colleagues and my colleague Horvat talked about populism that this proposal was populist. Look, I'm more certain that the President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, is conducting populism. As I said earlier today, on a train with Slovenian jumpers, it is populism and self-promotion. I'm sure the athletes won't have any of this except maybe moral support. Politics behaves machetely towards sports, athletes and I will support the proposal. As I have already said in my position, a tax reform should be done in Slovenia. A complete tax reform, which would make the two laws that are now a proposal for complementing the New Slovenia proposal, wider. Because I am sure that Slovenia needs some stable, in particular stable tax legislation that will not change for six months for 3 months. We know that, in this mandate, this government and these coalitions have been the ones that have been amended several times. However, they have been changed mainly in terms of increasing these and additional burdens for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, for the economy. See that we go to change tax policy every 3 months, 6 months, that's what I think is driving away all investors and making trouble for the economy, especially by bureaucracy and everything. And it is difficult for an economic society to draw up one serious strategy for such a violent change in tax matters for a period of one to five years. I am sure that sport needs support and politics should be imagined and we all want to take pictures, attend top events and, above all, forget the way to a top athlete. The Secretary of State has repeatedly mentioned top athletes to this and that. Look, the top athlete of this law, and he doesn't need this proposal. For the top athletes come themselves because they see the potential in them, not because they are donors to help them, but because they are doing the promotion of their business, because it is only marketable and understood. The top athlete is involved, I would say, also top sponsors, but the sponsors do not come to him because they want to help him, but they want to make their brand known in particular. And that makes sense. But here we don't deal with it and forget about the way you get to a top-notch athlete. This law and this amendment made by the proposer is mainly for smaller societies that raise young people and when this path begins with a top athlete. The way to a top athlete is thorny in Slovenia, because the environment – and today young people and children live on the burden of their families. Today, talent is no longer at the forefront. Today, the family budget is at the forefront. If the family does not have the resources, the child may not yet know what the talent is, but he will not be able to engage in sports activities, because today it is necessary to pay for every such thing. I am convinced that such a tax fallout as some coalition Members and Members of Parliament are saying would not be and that this is true, I would say, so passed by struck. You need to be aware – look, you don't know where the money is, and here's where the loss of that revenue will be. I have repeatedly stressed that the Slovenian Democratic Party has repeatedly stressed that you have more than one billion tax debts. More than one billion tax debt and I am interested in what the Ministry of Finance has done in this direction, what measures you have taken to reduce this tax debt. In my view, this tax debt increases entirely because it flows from active to inactive, and then, due to the completion of bankruptcys, it is also written off. We have more than one billion, that is, we are approaching 15 percent of the annual revenue in the budget. Well, about 15 percent is just a tax debt. I am sure, as well as in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this step is somehow positive in this direction, that the matter is being opened up, and we certainly advocate in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there should be a comprehensive approach to these two laws, a comprehensive approach. I wouldn't say just for athletes right now, but for tax reform to be done here in its entirety. I also listened a little bit to the Secretary of State, who has some sword projects that have nothing to do with the state. I don't know where you found the praise for the football center in Brdo pri Kranj. Here the country, in my opinion, did not contribute one cent, but was financed by the Football Federation of Slovenia. Do not boast about private capital or private money and that this has now become the government's credit for building a football centre in Brdo. It's not! You didn't give a cent, according to my behavior. It's a project by the Football Association, and I'm just going to commend it. I am sure that because of these new projects, which are, I am sure that Brdo will become more interesting and that from the title of the additional visit to Brda, and perhaps also some preparations for famous football teams, more tax on additional value will come to Slovenia from this account. The athletes are the best promoters of the country for me, and I would like to thank all athletes and athletes for these excellent results and for the promotion of Slovenia. The machete attitude of the state and this government towards sport is unsustainable, and I am sure that the step is in the right direction, but we should be united here, in my opinion, both the opposition and the coalition and make ourselves environmentally friendly. I don't mind such a proposal, I will support it, and I am sure that we need to be aware here, especially, of the way from the beginning to the top athlete. If such a policy and such an environment continues for an athlete in Slovenia, I am confident that Slovenia will have these top results from year to year. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer will be given the floor. Here you are, Mr. Tillen Christmas, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. My wish today was, above all, to add one breadth in this sense, that somehow I show that nothing has been done or that nothing exists, and that this is the only action that has been said, but that there is actually a diaspora of policies that are implemented through different ministries and together form a whole. It is said that you have some things in the field of high-quality sport, that you also have in the field of recreational and so on, so I also initially read some of the items from the budget, said what was at the MIP, what some of the other measures that are in other ministries, I also said in the tax area that we do not have just a donation, but we do have some other measures, including tax measures that kind of stimulate, say, those rewards that are paid out of the budget, then not least related to sports infrastructure. This is said to be given at a lower rate of VAT, with an impact of around €7 million. When we start to add together somehow, the budget of the MIZŠ is 12 million, then let's say what comes out of the gambling, the 8 million, then here's where we go forward with the VAT 7 million, and so on, it kind of comes together in some way. And the question then is, first of all, how this can fit in, how it would work, how it affects other policies that we have in other areas, is, if we are talking about culture, if we are talking about social issues and so on. It is said that we have a balance and that this proposal can somehow be placed in this story. For exactly the reasons, including the others mentioned, I do not think that this solution is appropriate or that these objectives could also be achieved in any other way, but I must say that I certainly do not cross the deadlines here by the Government. The Mišš also prepares one law in this area, engages in a debate, including at the Ministry of Finance, if anyone has an initiative and wishes to convey some of his thoughts, the doors are open. We have recently heard from the Olympic Committee, of course such discussions are problems, but they present their arguments, we look at our calculations, and see if there is a better solution, of course we will work to implement it. It has also been at the end of this tax debt again, and I have already outlined which measures have been taken as well as that it is in decline and that we are effective in doing so. It was a little bit taken from the context of the football center. You know, the funding structure – they have different resources, and certainly there are a lot of people in between, which is also state or parastatal, and in this way I just wanted to say that it is an environment that allows such good projects to be brought to an end in this country. But surely, when we talk about whether we will give sport out of our pocket or out of our budget, which is practically in the middle of our pocket, it is up to Members to decide. That is the position of the Government, as I have said somehow, that we are against this proposal, and I conclude with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u86	Today, before Members and Members, there is a concrete thing; two laws allowing Slovenian sport to make money easier to obtain donations that could make it easier to organise sports events, invest in infrastructure and also in equipment. The law is written in such a way that it does not endanger public finances, so that we do not compromise compliance with the fiscal rule, but by all means the law is essential in the way that it is interesting for businesses and entrepreneurs, and I am convinced that after the adoption of these laws, each donation would double the cost of an entrepreneur or undertaking, which means that the tax base would be reduced twice that this approach would be much more interesting and sport would in particular receive a lot more money to have Olympic and world champions in the future. I wish, at least at first reading, that law was allowed through the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since we haven't used the time yet, I'm gonna give you another lap to report. If you wish to discuss this, of course this applies to both the proposer and the Government, please register. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has Dr. Mitja Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. There is also an apology for missing the previous debater. I missed it, I admit it. When we are talking about the content and the reasons that lead me to why I say that I cannot support this proposal and give a vote in order to try to improve it further. As you know, if anyone, I'm willing to always sit with someone who's a proponent and help him create a text that I've done in the past. However, when I look at the text that is before us today, I cannot go past first looking at what the proposaler wants to achieve. So "encourage the financing of companies that operate in the public interest in the field of sports and sports companies which are selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme. The bill introduces a system of symbiosis between committed and defined sports companies, which has positive consequences both in the field of the economy and in the field of sport." I think that today you have advocated different objectives and purposes in the debate, such as what is written in the proposal itself. If I look at the title itself in both cases, the title is the next Olajsza for donations for the purpose of investing in a society that operates in the public interest in the field of sport. Therefore, I say that there was populism, the reasons you cited, why you should improve the text itself below, and of course follow another objective that followed from your discussion, rather than what you wrote in the bill itself, which means that the whole proposal needs to be amended, not just the text of the articles, which I could have described earlier in that brief intervention. The second thing that concerns me substantively in this part is, of course, the question that you are proposing to lower the tax base. The tax base is not even about the amounts that you discussed today during the debate, which I claim to have been used on purpose in low amounts, in order to reduce the significance and consequences that could have occurred if you adopted amendments to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and the Law on Income. This is what the Secretary of State warned you about, for my taste and for my understanding, in today's debate, and that is why I thanked him earlier for having answered the questions in a reasoned manner. It could have unfathomable consequences. What we could understand together is if we did not then have the restrictions, that is, the guards you were talking about, that these donations should be used by the company to organise or participate in sports events or to invest in the essential assets or equipment necessary for the functioning of society. Who will exercise control, traceability, or have the tax reliefs set out here been used in accordance with the purpose? I think it is also a considerable burden in terms of administrative work. Therefore, of course, counting on what has also been made clear in the introduction to the presentation of the position of one of the parliamentary groups, or what you will do on the issue of tax collection. Here too, the Secretary of State replied, of course, that efforts have been made and that the tax debt has been declining due to recent operations. Finally, “implementation of a reduction in the tax base for donations to sports companies and sports associations registered in Slovenia which are selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at the national or local level or the annual sport programme of the Foundation for Sport”. Of course, in this part it is slightly more possible to follow your arguments when you say that this would be an incentive; but only for some. So I'm afraid, let's think about whether or not it fits the terms of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greeting to all who are present in this hall! I would say that those who propose, as well as those who support this law, have put sport and not tax policy at the heart of today's debate. This is totally understandable because it is essential to give some emphasis to the law from this point of view, because it is not possible to give them tax arguments. It is not so insignificant that the taxpayers do not take advantage of tax reliefs or that those who could have given them back to the company do not take this into account in their operations. It's about money, and I don't know why it would be so irrelevant not to take advantage of that money and not to take advantage of other possible benefits, such as making it easier for the income and the like. Even in this case, we would have all these sports companies, which today are so much talk about, more money and money is money. The motioner says that because the legislation so far brings too much administration. I'm sorry, but I've been listening all this time, and I haven't heard a word I've heard about this administration being too mysterious to be this problem. Besides, why just sports? Why not put culture at the heart of our conquest here, for example? Are you talking about the national programme for sport – does culture not have a national programme? Are cultural people not ambassadors of Slovenia? Don't culturers have an impact on the economy? And if we take this national programme for culture, the former Minister, the Minister of Government of Ms Alenka Bratušek, has made a request or wish into the national programme for culture, as you wish, for example, only in the area of two large infrastructure facilities such as NUK and the Art Academy, 150 million. Yes, this is also a huge need for this society! I really don't know why we shouldn't focus on this debate today, for example, culture. I am particularly surprised at the debate when it was said that culturers really need money, as they have also expressed it publicly at one of the events or at the central cultural event. So I would say to those who stressed that today it is not taxes or sports or that it is more than populism. This is where I stressed culture, because it was especially difficult for me, and it's close to me. Of course, I could also attach to the Desus Lady, who spoke about the fact that all other organisations could obtain this money; those who are already among those who receive tax reliefs, from pensioners, scientists and many more. That is why I will say that I do not intend to support this proposal. Of course, I would like to stress in this regard that I am very much in favour of every thought on tax promotion of the social responsibility of economic operators. Here I also support those debaters who have taken a special interest in this, and in some ways I also support or give the Government the initiative to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal for conclusions that the proposals for legislation are suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. I hereby terminate agenda items 10 and 11. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that's the first defensively proposed law on the amendment of the garden law. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members, first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u92	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The demographic picture of Slovenia is extremely poor and one of the worst in the European Union. This is what the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development also draws our attention to. The normal functioning of the country or all its subsystems would require around 30,000 births in the coming years. At the moment, we are not even reaching the number of 20,000, and the trend is declining. It is therefore very important what demographic policy the Government is taking and will take it to the future. The extremely low fertility and consequent ageing of the population are, according to the European Commission, one of the biggest social and economic challenges of Europe of the 21st century, affecting all Member States and most of the policy areas of the European Union. In 2025, more than 20 per cent of the European population will be 65 years old and over, and in particular the number of elderly people aged 80 and over will increase. Slovenia is predicted to be more than 55 years old every fourth Slovenian in eight years. The economic situation, however, is steadily improving according to the data of the Government Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, Umarja. On average, confidence in all activities and between consumers has been highest since the start of the crisis in 2016. The government has been talking a lot over the past year about improving the economic situation in the country. As a result, it releases a number of austerity measures while increasing budgetary expenditure in a number of areas. Let me mention only the recent recapitalisation of SDH and DUTB of EUR 250 million, the increase in public sector wages, the re-introduction of 2 January as a day off and the increase in the minimum pensionable full-time pension without totalling. We are assessing that the release of austerity measures should start in families that have really ensured our future. The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats proposes the reintroduction of free kindergarten for the second and all subsequent children who are simultaneously involved in kindergarten. We know this solution, it was introduced in 2008. The measure was in force until 2012 and had a favourable impact on the family life of the beneficiaries. The time after the introduction of justice according to Umarje also coincided with the highest birth rate in Slovenia in the last ten years. The proposed measure would allow parents much easier coordination of family and professional life, make families financially and organisationally burdensome, increase participation in kindergartens without the additional financial burden of the municipalities, and consequently pursue the objective of ensuring better demographic trends than we have seen today and in recent years. Dear colleagues and colleagues from all parliamentary groups! In the course of the public presentations of our proposal, we have received a number of expressions of family support, regardless of the political definition. I invite you to come together and take a small solution, which will mean a lot to many families.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Andrea Barle Lakota, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is certainly first interested in the quality of preschool education in Slovenia. Pre-school education is an important part of the education system; not only that, of course, it has a key impact on all the educational opportunities it has in the next life. At the same time, the Ministry of Education points out that an unattainable indicator, which is also very important from a European point of view, is the involvement of children before entering school. This is because the Ministry of Education is focusing primarily on how to achieve the indicator. However, in the light of the proposal you are witnessing to him, it is worth noting that such a measure has already been in force in 2009-2012, but it has proven to have had several complex effects. One was the unequal situation of families, another important factor was the investment or demands of parents after the exercise of this right, and the municipalities simply could not guarantee it, and the third, perhaps the factor to be pointed out, however, was that parents entered into a kindergarten that was not regularly attended by the child. However, it is worth noting that the Court of Auditors in 2010 has pointed out that it is important to develop such measures in the area of preschool education, which will ensure a fair, equitable situation and where the measures will be examined in a sufficiently complex manner. Let me also point out that the Ministry of Education has already drawn up a proposal for a law that was at the e-democracy and then an interdepartmental hearing, and with our proposal, as I have already said, we are focusing on how to achieve the European objective, it is said that 95 per cent of the involvement of children before entering primary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, all together one nice greeting! And to begin with, I will quote the inscription of the President of the Republic, Mr. Pahor, yesterday on social networks. I quote: “After the exit from the economic crisis, after economic recovery, we were given the opportunity to start again.” Today we have before us the law of the New Slovenia Group, which gives the family policy a chance to start again. Otherwise, we have the opportunity to be here in the National Assembly, because if there were no New Slovenia, there would probably be coalition MPs somewhere on the ground or at home, so I thank my colleagues from New Slovenia for coming to Parliament with concrete laws. We will also support this law in the SDS Group. Not only is Mr Pahor, who is the main culprit that we went into an economic, social and probably a valuable crisis in 2009, but he is the last one to talk about how we come out of the economic crisis, but on the other hand we also have a President of the Government, who is at home and abroad, with everything possible. Kitty with her failures, also with the success of previous governments, because sometimes I feel that Mr Cerar forgets that those most successful governments in history have been in the 2004-2008 mandate, and then those after Mr Pahor, that is, Janš's second government and Bratuška, who, sometimes also because of events on the European floor, have acted constructively. Now the situation is somewhat different. Mr Cerar always says that we are emerging from the economic and economic crisis, and then this same government writes how it does not support the law as it is before us. Family. I personally recall the mandate of 2004-2008 not only in the field of the Ministry of Education, but also in the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have put some not only legislative proposals through both the government and the law into real life, but also various other measures to understand, such as the family and children, one of the main places in our legal, valuable and otherwise way of life. So it was the opposite of what happens in this mandate when we evaluate both the family and the children with the family code. Earlier in the introduction of the drafters, what is the demographic picture of Slovenia? Positive laws or other systemic measures have been proven to lead to greater fertility. It is therefore necessary to support today’s law that this poor demographic picture at this time, and even more so to avoid the coming years, will somehow return to a positive direction. Not only will we ask ourselves in 2030, if not before, how many more of us are still alive, not only in Slovenia, but especially how many of us are Slovenes and Slovenes. And yes, this law is the basis of what is already happening in this mandate, when this government, based on rumours of a better economic and economic situation in Slovenia, divides candy. The same government, which was against January 2nd, then introduces January 2nd as a day off. This government distributes candy elsewhere in the public sector and is obviously running out of these funds for children, regardless of the number or amount that is expected to be needed. This law is a turning point with the ZUJF, which was for – at least those we were in the parliamentary benches at the time – one of the most difficult votes we made, but it was also one of the most substantive votes we have ever made since 2009 in the National Assembly. Even then, Slovenian families, like all other systems and sub-systems in the Republic of Slovenia, had to somehow accept that they would also need a little belt tightening. Today is mainly based on the speeches of the President of the Republic and the President of the Government, it is time for us to break up in the area of the family and especially our youngest, that is, our children; children who have walked, walk, and especially those who will go to preschool or kindergarten. Today is the first time before us; a very simple law is very substantive. If anyone in the coalition or in the ministry, especially in the government, has a problem with this law, we can amend it. I think that the applicants themselves would probably agree if, in Article 2, they wrote that, instead of applying from 1 June 2017, they would apply from 1 June 2017. 1. 2018, because it would be a marriage commitment that in this national assembly of all 90 Members and Members we are committed to doing something for our families and especially for our children. But what do we get in the government's response? Two eternal floscules, which are the reason why opposition laws are not good. One is that the law is not systemic and the other is financial. Once again, honourable Members and Members of the Coalition, remember how many non-systemic laws you have adopted in this mandate. Every other marriage is non-systematic. You even take from the system laws one chapter and make a special law; in short, dismantle systemic solutions. And here we have the system law, the Kindergarten Act, and one change. In short, it is not a matter of non-systemic and both the Ministry and the Government, but not least of all Members and Members, you have the opportunity to complete these two articles or to prepare a new, even better proposal for a law, but to support this law in today's first reading will be a good indicator that you are serious about serious family and pre-school policies. And the other thing about finance. A million here, a million there, 250 million here, 100 million there -- no problem from this government. Even for things that are one way or another controversial. You put millions into companies that fail, you put millions into client projects of individual government clients and so on, and everything is possible: 20 million for the Slovenian State Forests, illegal state aid for such and different companies, 20 million for you loving segments from the public sector, and when the problem is 10 million for children in public-budgeted kindergartens, the problem is. In short, this shows all your policy in the area of family policy, which takes up the preschool education segment here. And, Your Honor, today we're talking about family, professions and demographics. By adopting this law, we will give a clear signal that there are still values in Slovenia called family and children. And for closure. In our parliamentary group, we will support the bill because, as it is written: we set a free kindergarten for another and every further child, because for an older child who is simultaneously involved with a younger child in kindergarten, we set a lower price for one class and because parents for a child who is five years of age are paying 50 per cent of the pay assigned to him as a reduced wage for kindergarten. And we will support this law because the family policy must be the basic paradigm of every society, i.e. also companies in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u98	Honourable Vice-President, Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Again, we have before us a bill that is one of those in a series of many who are trying to destroy the Public Finance Balance Act. Although adopted for some purpose, this was, or still, a major part of the Law of Savings. With the measure proposed in the bill that we have on the table today, we should find more than €10 million this year, according to the proposaler's assessment, and over €21 million in the coming years. This is about the financial consequences that would have arisen to the state, not to the municipalities. The budgets for this year and next year are adopted, and we are also committed to respect the fiscal rule and all accompanying acts defining the budgetary framework. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, please tell us how to get this additional money. We, the Desus Group, have ideas and desires, how and by whom everything in this loving country needs to be helped. The recent crisis has affected everything. It has not been a choice. Somehow we were able to protect the weakest, those middle-class companies, and with average income they paid the highest price, according to our estimate. However, not everything goes so fast and on the nose to work “copy-paste” on a solution that was adopted in 2008 and I must admit here, including by voting Desus. In order to be properly understood by our Group of Members, let me explain that we do not oppose the idea that families will receive more positive measures in terms of financial incentives in all areas related to children. Concern for the fertility and improvement of demographic forecasts is also our concern. However, any possible changes to the measures must be linked to a fair and financially acceptable structure. This specific proposal was already under the scrutiny of the Court of Auditors, and the Court of Auditors found the following. The introduction of State co-financing of parental payments for the second and subsequent children involved in kindergarten and the only child at the age of at least three years without simultaneous measures mainly in the field of investment, where spatial capacity should be expanded, does not achieve the objective of increasing the proportion of children involved in kindergartens. The implementation of the measures was not adequately planned, as no assessment of the necessary state budget resources has been prepared, no analysis of the impact of the measure has been prepared taking into account the existing number of all places in kindergartens, in particular in areas where there is a shortage of vacancies. In addition, the introduction of funding for parental payments for the second and subsequent children has not improved the financial accessibility of preschool education for parents who have only one preschool child or more children who cannot be included in kindergartens at the same time due to excessive age differences. Thus, parents are discriminated against if they have only one child or if they have more children, and because of the age difference, not all are included in the kindergarten at the same time. In line with this last conclusion, which we agree with in our parliamentary group and also in accordance with our coalition agreement, which, among its actions to ensure greater inclusion of children in pre-school education programmes, states the creation of a scale with fewer classes that will burden parents with average income, in the Desus Group we expect that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, will prepare a change of law in this direction as soon as possible. We are aware of the financial consequences, but such a measure would be appropriate and especially fair to families, and children, because they are single or have an older relative, would not be discriminated against. The bill we are voting on today will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the introduction to the draft law amending the Law on kindergartens, we would like to stress that preschool education in Slovenia is qualitative and, of course, accessible. We stress, however, that, in view of the overcoming of the social disparities that arise in the social environment, it is very important that we allow children to be included in kindergartens in the largest possible number. Involvement means better progress in both speech and readiness for further education and, of course, willingness to pursue its further, say, career path. To this end, we also supported solutions in the Social Democrats Group, which allow for both greater spatial and financial accessibility of pre-school education programmes and, last but not least, in 2008, we voted in favour of the proposal for a new Kindergarten Act, which freed the payments of the programme for the parents of the second and subsequent children in kindergarten. Unfortunately, it later happened that the Public Finance Balance Act had abolished this solution and, of course, it had consequences both for families and, of course, for the municipalities that had initially provided it, invested in these premises, and then all of a sudden, a change in the rules. And today we are faced with a proposal by the proposer once again proposing the introduction of a lower price in kindergarten for the first child and free kindergarten for the second and all subsequent children. So, in the meantime, the very important situation that has been taking place in Slovenia has been forgotten. The consequences of the economic and financial crisis, which, of course, was global and subsequently passed on to Slovenia, have left their high price. In fact, measures to remedy the crisis have gone in the wrong direction, and today we have 400,000 people dealing with poverty. This is one of the concrete outcomes of the recovery of measures to address the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, and this is, of course, a problem that we must address as a matter of priority. So, it is not so much a solution in subsidising kindergartens and, of course, many other matters, but, above all, we see a solution in providing jobs and a decent payment for the work done. Indeed, the difficult economic situation of people is precisely because of the pressure on wage cuts and, of course, a large number of people are unemployed. Without this, of course, it will not be possible to establish effective child protection and the whole development system in Slovenia. The return to the previous situation, despite the fact that the applicant was also one of the biggest supporters of the entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule, is something that has clearly been overlooked in this bill. Therefore, the fiscal rule is intended primarily to reduce the rights both to subsidise child protection and to make all other services financed by public funds accessible. This is a factor that is actually enshrined in the Constitution and may somehow be understood by today's law that it is by the proposer of the law on the initiative to delete the fiscal rule from the Constitution. Otherwise, measures to remedy the crisis have not touched the areas of denationalisation. This was also mentioned why EUR 250 million was actually earmarked for the recapitalisation of the Slovenian State Holding for the purposes of denationalisation. So in the process of solving the economic and financial crisis, this area has not been affected and, of course, today all processes that take place within denationalisation and have not yet been completed have actually been assessed as the most profitable for those who expect a favourable solution to their application in the process of denationalisation. On any bank, on any financial market, you can't get as high a return as you can get here. So, on the one hand, there is a great pressure on wage reduction, on the reduction of pensions, on the reduction of social rights, on the other hand a completely intact attitude towards this issue and even a stake of 250 million in order to ensure this very demanding supply which has been accepted in Slovenia. However, despite all these facts, it is noted that the Court of Auditors, already in the first law, which introduced 50% co-financing of parental payments for the first child and exempts others from the cost of kindergarten, that co-financing of parental payments for the second child caused difficulties or increased costs to parents when one child was in kindergarten and the other has already been educated in primary school. So there was no relief for the first one in kindergarten, or for the one in kindergarten, there was no relief, and for the second one who went to school, costs increased significantly more than, say, in kindergarten. Therefore, as part of today's debate in the Group of Social Democrats, we are also taking the initiative to take this warning of the Court of Auditors into account and to subsidise the cost of kindergarten for all families whose older child attends primary school and the younger one is included in kindergarten. This is one of those measures that would mainly relieve those people who have somehow average wages and have been the most affected during the crisis, and that is also least addressed by certain measures when we are talking about the need to resolve those who have the lowest income. This is one of the measures that would relieve all those who receive middle pay and actually also bear the greatest burden of the fiscal rule that is enshrined in the Constitution. This would also bring us closer to that measure that is necessary right now, and I think that in fact more laws should be adopted during this period mainly to eliminate poverty, and in particular the laws that restore dignity to citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. We will support the proposal of Christian Democrats in the United Left. It is the removal of the harmful consequences of the austerity policies introduced by the government of Janša in 2012, but it was then implemented by all the following governments. In the United Left, we have been warning all the time that belt tightening policy is harmful, that it brings poverty and that it brings about a general social decline. In doing so, it does not at all lead to economic recovery and economic growth; even on the contrary, it has very negative economic effects. Therefore, according to what we have been repeating over and over again, we agree with the proposal to abolish the austerity measure in the field of public services and to bring it to the table in New Slovenia. This proposal restores the price of kindergarten to the level that was in force before 2012. A spindle for parents who have at least two children in it will now be more accessible. The change will make it possible for some families to be financially burdened and protected, and thus the socialisation of children of those families who do not have enough access to kindergarten. This change is good, and it is worth it by itself. Access to public services increases the quality of life of our people, which is a purely ok goal in itself, it does not need to be besieged with other arguments. But today's proposal for this measure is not enough. Christian Democrats base change on population ageing and poor demographic imagery. That we need to have more births in Slovenia, so that these children can become a workforce in the future. And here it seems that the right does not advocate family policy, but a naturalistic policy, in favour of capital accumulation, of course – Blut und Boden. In addition, kindergarten is just one of the expenses that families have on their backs. Therefore, this change cannot have a significant impact on the decision of the family or the woman for the second or third child. We are dealing with the housing crisis of young families, the inability to reach decent safe regular jobs, the enforcement of the labour market, and then the overburning of jobs, if people even get jobs and so on. Let us add to this the fact that the children's allowance is taken into account in determining the right to social assistance and other rights, to which we have been alerting in the United Left for a long time, even with the proposal to improve the child's allowance and to exclude it from the social aid prices, but this national assembly of this proposal, I think, at the current meeting, shot down and refused. Ageing is an inevitable fact, and sooner or later we will have to deal with the consequences. But it is up to us to ask ourselves how we will deal with these consequences: whether this will lead us to a complete breakdown of the social state or whether we will adapt the new reality to a better organisation of work by reducing working hours by introducing other socially advanced policies. The changing prices of kindergartens cannot solve this problem, nor can they solve the problem for a short period of time. We can also challenge the proposaler by solving demographic problems in the short term, too, migration. We would be interested in the enthusiasm for the admission of young families to Slovenia on the basis of a demographic argument. Would the right policy in Slovenia accept a young refugee or migrant, as they say, family and ensure the successful integration of their children into Slovenian society? Would you do that? I think we all know the answer. It's negative. The births spoken of by the right must be somehow domestic Slovenian, pure blood, indigenous, in traditional families and in traditional relationships. Blut und Boden again. However, today we will not vote on the justification for this proposal, but on its content and its content is okay because it repeals certain provisions of the ZUJF, and we will also support this in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u103	Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u104	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, chairman, nice greeting! A proposal to amend the Law on Kindergarten, which we are considering today on the proposal of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats is not new, but in our opinion it is necessary. More specifically, it is one of the many necessary measures that the country should have taken earlier in order to at least try to face the devastating demographic picture of Slovenia and, if possible, to improve it. In Novi Slovenija we considered that the situation in the country was ripe to return some family policy measures that had once been in force to families. Families, especially those with multiple children and single parent families, carried the left share of the savings burden during the economic and financial crisis. We are now in 2017, when counter-crisis or austerity measures are released in many areas. The current government, or ruling coalition, has made it clear that the crisis is over. Families who should actually feel this first are still faced with a loss of family benefits, while at the same time with a higher burden on the payment of the kindergarten. Of course, in the earliest childhood, it is best for a child to be at home. In today’s way of life, when many mothers also take part in professional activities, kindergartens are essential and welcome to help parents coordinate family and professional life. In Slovenia we have a long tradition of preschool education and today it is at an enviable high level. We have very good public and private kindergartens with different educational methods. The offer is quite large and good and quality. However, young parents in Slovenia are quite heavily burdened with paying for kindergartens, especially if they have multiple children involved in preschool education at the same time. In the New Slovenia Group, we therefore support the proposal or three proposals for solutions brought by this law: free kindergarten for the second and all of the following children involved in kindergarten for one class lower price for the first child and a half reduction in payment for the child who has completed five years and is included in the kindergarten programme. What is very important to us is that the burden of paying the difference between reduced and full cost of kindergarten is passed on to the state budget. This fact is important because of the already excessive burden on local communities, which the current government without listening to local self-government imposes on them new and new tasks for which it does not provide financial resources. Families are our greatest wealth, our greatest value. That is why we need to support them and make it easier for parents to decide for more children, which is crucial to the existence of the nation and also to improve demographics. Members of New Slovenia, of course, support the proposed solution and we will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! We have before us a debate on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Kindergarten, the aim of which is to return to the situation as it was before 2012. Thus, the introduction of a lower price of kindergarten for the first child and free kindergarten for the second and all subsequent children who are simultaneously enrolled in kindergarten. We welcome both the amendment proposal and the discussion on family policy measures, which the proposed amendment opens, in particular in the light of the achievement of the strategic objective of the 95 % inclusion of children over four years of age in kindergarten, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members and also in the Alliance. With the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, the then government has abolished free kindergarten attendance for another child for parents who have two or more children in kindergarten. Since then, parents have paid 30 percent of the price set by law for the second child as a reduced payment of the nursery. The measure, which according to the Ministry's data at the time, literally faced higher expenditure on kindergartens today, was primarily aimed at stabilising public finances and was therefore of a temporary nature and today the situation in Slovenia is significantly different. We therefore believe that it is time for restrictive measures to finally be released. 53. Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states, quote: “The State protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection.” We are convinced that in the Republic of Slovenia, family policy and family protection measures should take precedence over the sustainability of public finances, especially in the fact that the crisis is clearly over and at the same time an increasingly poor state as the demographic picture of our country shows. For the singleness of young people from parents and the design of their own family is due to certain economic factors, such as rising prices of living needs, increasing costs of raising children, changing the role of the family and others, which has a bearing on the rate of birth. It is therefore important that the country and local communities consistently pursue the objectives of family policy and ensure conditions for improving the quality of life of all families and allow for equal opportunities for the personal development of all family members. The concept of family policy is based on the Resolution on the Basics of Family Policy in the Republic of Slovenia adopted in 1993, which identifies the whole social, economic, legal, educational, health, fiscal and other measures taken by the political and administrative system to directly or directly affect the living conditions of families or their members, their origin and development. So why not follow values such as security, freedom, solidarity, prosperity and equality and give concrete thought to the effectiveness of social and family policies? In a document titled Vision of Slovenia 2050, the government wrote down the following: »Actively cooperate to realize our common future. With each step, large or small, we are closer to the goal." End of quote. We therefore hope in the Group of Non-Aligned Members and also in the Alliance that we will not wait for active cooperation and steps in the right direction until 2050, but we want to enter the path to change today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u108	Your Honor, a lovely greeting from me, too! The system of pre-school education and protection is an extremely important part of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia. It is an entry point for all further educational steps by citizens and citizens and has far-reaching implications for successful lifelong learning, and it is therefore very important that, at a time when we face ever-new societal challenges, quality pre-school education enables us to start a good start for all children. Our country can boast of one of the best quality systems of preschool education and protection not only in Europe, but also wider, which we can certainly all be proud of. Statistical data are also optimistic, Slovenia is in the upper half of the OECD countries after the inclusion of three- and four-year-olds in preschool education, and we are constantly approaching the EU strategic goal of 95 % of children's participation in kindergarten protection from the fourth year to school entry. On how to achieve it as soon as possible, solutions are also being sought within the government novel of the Kindergarten Act, which can soon be expected in the parliamentary procedure. For all the reasons mentioned above, discussions on how to upgrade pre-school care and education is even more qualitative and inclusive for all children, of course how important it is. The New Slovenia Group invites Members and Members to adopt measures for the so-called burden of family policy. Measures such as free kindergarten for other and all other children, one class lower kindergarten price for older children, which is simultaneously included in kindergarten, and 50% pay for parents for a child who is 5 years old, should have a positive impact mainly on the demographic picture of Slovenia and on the improvement of the socio-economic situation of families. The undeniable fact is that the demographic picture of Slovenia is not optimistic. Like most developed countries today, we are an ageing society and no one denies it. Nevertheless, the proposal for a novel that we are discussing today needs to be addressed from other perspectives. We would like to highlight the following. It is irresponsible that the applicants claim that funds for the implementation of the law are provided in the State budget. The budget documents for 2017 and 2018 have been adopted and we therefore wonder on the basis of which data the applicants assume that the financial resources for the measures they propose are provided if they do not. It is also unclear on the basis of which data the applicants came to an assessment of the financial implications of EUR 10 million in 2017 and of the good 21 in the coming years. The SMC Group also lacks evaluation of the proposed measures in view of the expected increased enrolment of children in kindergartens. It is, therefore, appropriate to provide in advance a sufficient number of capacities in kindergartens according to the needs of parents. Unfortunately, you do not operate on objective data to assess the impact of the proposed measures. Furthermore, in the years 2008-2012, the free kindergarten measure for the second and all further children had already been implemented, proved to be ineffective. This needs to be clearly stressed. These were also the findings of the Court of Auditors. At that time, numerous indications of illogicality and unequal treatment of parents in relation to the same income situation of families were received. The implementation of the measures was not adequately planned or prepared without a proper analysis of the intended effects. Today's proposal is no different. During the period of validity of the measures, there were absurd situations where children were enrolled in kindergarten and were not regularly or visited at all; children who were in need of a seat were waiting for them or had to be included in the protection outside the formal forms of preschool education. It should also be borne in mind that there is already a shortage of free places in certain environments in kindergartens. Finally, let us point out that social or family policies cannot always be solved by educational policies; it is important that everyone performs their functions and that others give their hand when it is necessary. We believe that the purpose of the proposal is good, but unfortunately it is incomplete and in our view it would have more negative than positive consequences. In the SMC Group, we will not support the bill proposal, but we continue to advocate that the country's funding for kindergarten payments be maintained to a certain extent. How to ensure maximum access to kindergarten protection and how to ensure affordability within this framework, planning and adoption should be planned and taken into account, while also taking into account the principle of equal treatment and fairness. The free kindergarten for the other and all the other children regret, I repeat, it has already proved to be reckless and ineffective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Ms Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Thank you to all the parliamentary groups for the views presented, especially those who actually understand family policy in some way. But I agree, and you've all said that, but it's time to still separate what a family policy measure is and what a social protection policy measure is. Just from your point of view, I can understand that what we are warning in New Slovenia all the time is that it is simply no longer visible, which is a family policy that encourages, I will say, strengthening the family and enabling and burdening the family, and what social protection policy is on the other hand. And that was also understood by you when you all quoted the government's opinion. I also examined it myself and really wrote in, “the mentioned benefits have been given a number of indications of illogicality and unequal treatment of parents in relation to the same income situation of families”, indeed. But do you not feel that these families are still under unequal treatment today? Why? Because the prices of kindergartens across Slovenia are different from municipalities to municipalities, and all income families are not yet in an equal position. And no one's asking questions about it, and no one's sticking to it. We speak, just the unloading of a child, second and further in kindergarten, is an equal measure. At national level, everyone knows what and how it will follow when children are included in kindergartens. A very transparent measure that actually makes you think and the family better decide for a child more, which I think is what demographic indicators show is necessary. Once again, however, it is necessary to begin to separate family policies and social protection policies. Indeed, the burden on kindergartens is one of the measures of family policy, not social protection policy. If I just take a little walk through your views on the European Union's target, 95% of those involved until school entrance. It's true, it's nice to hear it, Slovenia's getting closer, but – what happens when there's no children? You mentioned, the lady mentioned a vision in 2050. I do not know if demographic trends have been looked at by 2050 — very bad. And then there was a vision until 2050, and then he refers to it. We all want to have a beautiful country, a green, happy people, as it says in the vision. But who will live in this – deer bears, or what – country, if we do not act here and, of course, enable family policy in Slovenia to come to life? As far as the others are concerned, it has been said that there is no money, that it is difficult to find 10 million euros for families, as we have estimated in the New Slovenia Group to stand for such a measure. Where we got 10 million, there was even a question. Yeah, where did we get them? We got them where they were. When we were working on measures to balance public finances, the savings in this title were 10 million, but you know, because everything is black and white. So now it's 10 million to give something terrible to families and children. But when some annexes are signed for some reconciliation of some part of the public administration, I'll just tell the doctors, but they can sign there, and 56 million can sign there. This is a family policy measure and you have not yet reduced the waiting types by this measure. It's what beats everyone, including families and even children. It seems to me that, in some way, misunderstanding or not supporting such a proposal seems real to me that this is the first step when we are all committed to doing more for families. [[…]] It was said that as far as the date is concerned, perhaps we would even be prepared as candidates for any later application of the date or for a later entry into force. Look, it's a public debate today. Each parliamentary group shall have the possibility of making amendments. We have already told the Personal Assistance Act that we are open and that we are ready to talk and to look for the right solutions with you. And I see no difficulty in not doing so in the coming days or next week on the basis of today's debate and, of course, on the basis of proposals that have also come from coalition parties. In my position, I said that when the state may have some extra money, that it will first give it back to its citizens, or that it will somehow make sure that the money surplus is in 10, 20, 30, 50 years' time. Which means you're investing it in future generations. That we invested 250 million in SDH in 2 January and so on – which, by the way, brings “the most” to the pensioners and those who are poor, gives the “most” on 2 January – it seems to me that it is necessary to say the price, it has been said that 250 million recapitalisations for the purposes of denationalisation have been heard here today. Yes, of course, since 2011 we have been warning that denationalisation procedures are too long, that they take too long, that no one hopes to draw, and I will end with that. However, to simply postpone these matters, I cannot tell you how many times we have asked the question of the Minister of Justice as well as the President of the Government, but nothing really happens in this area. And it appears that denationalisation is one such topic that, in fact, when it is possible for a coalition or an SD to fit, it starts with some denationalisation, and who gets something and so on. But the matter has been taken from certain people, and it must be resolved as soon as possible. And the longer it's resolved, the bigger it is. It's everywhere. The person in charge must pay more if he does not pay back within the time limit. It seems to me that it has been said that if the child is in school and the other child is in kindergarten, if I have understood correctly – then you will probably correct me by fellow Members, or if I have understood correctly that – an amendment is already being announced here. I also support the fact that if a child is in school, if they have two children or three, because it doesn't matter if there's another one in school, we get a subsidy. I support this, and here I also understand from your side that you come closer and that we will discuss these matters as well. I think every such thing is good. Housing policy was exposed. Mr Kordiš is not here, if he were to follow, he would know what we said in the first package when we said we were going to invest an anti-ZUJF and then we agreed with the services of the National Assembly on how we would carry out the whole procedure. Let me just say that we have 6 laws in place, namely, the law on housing subsidies – this is also part of the family policy, the resolution of the housing problem – today's law on cheaper kindergartens for the first and free of charge for the second child, then the introduction of a second child allowance for all income classes, because it is a family policy, the universal right to help with the birth of a child and the right to an allowance for a large family, the removal of the parental allowance and the parental allowance and the state scholarship for children with slightly higher incomes, not only with minimum income. In short, family policy measures that would make families financially burdened and give families the opportunity to develop, strengthen. It seems to me that if we do not have children – it may be ugly to hear, you will tell some what I encourage, but – all our kindergartens will be empty and our schools will be empty. That's not gonna happen. And I think it is right that, in today's draft law, which we Members of New Slovenia have tabled for parliamentary consideration, we should also agree on, agree on and make the best of it in the coming days. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mrs. Bachich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Nicely hailed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have before us a proposal from New Slovenia, namely a proposal for a law amending the Law on Kindergartens, which should provide for additional benefits in paying parents for kindergarten. They believe that this proposal would improve the economic and social situation of the family and that as a result parents would decide to have more children, which would somehow improve the demographic picture of the Republic of Slovenia. They propose that a free kindergarten should be set for the second and each further child, so that for the older child who is included in the kindergarten at the same time, a lower price should be fixed for one class and that parents for a child who is 5 years of age receive an additional 50% payment in addition to the subsidy. Involvement of children in kindergarten shows the effectiveness of the preschool system, since more than 90% of children were enrolled in school year 2015/2016 at the age of 4. By 2020, the European Union aims to include 95 % of school enrolment by the end of the 4th year. This objective is also pursued by our Government, which is preparing the Kindergarten Act, and I personally expect it to include an ambitious outcome of today's debate. Let me remind you that the proposal for free kindergarten for other and further children is the result of a pre-election period in the time of the fat cows 2008 when Janša's proposal was voted against without a vote, including with the support of the Social Democrats. Until 2012, it was thus considered that if more than one family was involved in kindergarten, the parents paid one lower price for the first child, for the second and the next zero, while a gradual introduction of a half-age payment for children aged 3 to 5 was envisaged. The model was not fair to those parents who had one child in kindergarten and paid more for it than those parents who had two or more children. And at the time, there were also problems faced by municipalities that had problems with shortages of free places in kindergartens and therefore had to invest themselves in kindergartens from their own resources, because there were no funds actually provided from the state budget. Therefore, when the application of free kindergarten for another child is repeated, additional funds should also be provided for investments in kindergarten facilities. The conversion took place on 11 May 2012, when the Janša Coalition was adopted by ZUJF. This initially proposed the total abolition of free kindergarten, but then the amendment voted on the proposal as is still in force today. The explanation stated that, in conjunction with the proposal to amend the Law on Kindergarten, it is necessary to adapt to the crisis and financial situation which is also affecting the area of social rights. Magus, too. That year, when the budget rebalanced, Tonin stressed the phrase which is the Mantra of New Slovenia today: every good master knows that as much as he creates over the year, in some way he can spend. And this is how the state should behave. We all want more. We all want more for kindergartens, more for schools, more for development. And that's what we all want; that is, when you're in a coalition like this when you're in opposition. I therefore ask where the client of Nova Slovenije, who is against tax burdens requiring a balanced budget which is against the greater obligations of local communities, proposes that we take the necessary resources. I am aware, however, that the inclusion of children in kindergarten is of paramount importance, as it has a positive impact on their development, both intellectual and social, integration, speech and could still be listed. The curriculum for kindergartens is very good and children gain a lot, are more independent, confident and ready to go to school. Therefore, it would be good for every child to be included in the kindergarten. The proposal of New Slovenia after the kindergarten subsidy is welcome and would suggest supporting it, but as Mr Tonin said, let the country spend as much as it deserves, and yesterday we confirmed the new Fiscal Council, which will monitor our spending. Question. It is true that, as a society, we are ageing and must increase our birthrate. We all agree on that. Not only will kindergartens help, but more needs to be done for family, employment, housing, and so on and only when young people have all of this will they be able to make a better decision about birth. That was already a lot of talk in the debate, and Mrs Dimic said nicely what it would look like. With regard to today's debate, I would like to point out that I agree with the proposal put forward in inter-departmental coordination. This says that the proposal of New Slovenia would be upgraded by further reducing payment for a child in kindergarten by one-third if a relative in the first triad of primary school, because the primary school brings a lot of costs with regard to textbooks, with regard to work volumes, although the Ministry of Education is now going to the front, for the first class the work volumes will be subsidised and so on. I believe that such an arrangement would apply to all families, and not only to families in a difficult material situation, which would also relieve the situation of the medium layer, which is most affected by the austerity measures of the Public Finance Balance Act. I therefore support this proposal that these parents who already have their first child in primary school are also subsidised by the price of kindergarten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Dr. Bojan Dobovšek ready. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u114	Looks like it's our day. And I also see the friendly SDS Members specialising in me and getting what I was saying in 2012 at the hearing of the ZUJF. I think I said it right. Even today, these words are true, and if you put them in those circumstances, they were certainly in place. The key difference between then, 2012 and today is that there was a billion euro in the budget or budget revenues, which is a thousand million euro less in the budget than we have today. This is, for example, a fundamental difference that needs to be taken into account when we speak. With a billion euros less income, it is clear that certain ways had to be sought to reduce expenditure on the other hand. But today, when economic growth has brought a slightly higher income, it is important where we share these revenues. There is no mystery here, and there is nothing tragic and nothing wrong if we are programmely different that, say, you and your government are slightly more of that money, these billions of euros invested in the public sector with increased employment, with increased wages in the public sector and the like, and we as a party that advocates such a programme as we imagine, however, we wanted to spend this billion more in a way that would benefit everyone. Well, with tax burdens. In order not only to benefit people who are employed in the public sector, but also those who are working in the real sector and who have also paid the highest price during the economic crisis. When we talk about these things today, where we think it would be most reasonable to invest or give this billions of euros, if the government already has more at its disposal than it had in 2012, I think that one of the things to focus on is, unfortunately, a larger part of Slovenian politics is concerned with, as if it is not a topic, demography or if you want fertility. I think we are seriously reminded of the danger posed by the low birth rate only by the government of Umar. Not to be misunderstood, it is not some winged New Slovenia, but if you go to look at the reports of the government of Umar, it is always talking about the fact that fertility and demographics are extremely worrying and that in the next 20, 30 years we are threatened with a breakdown of the pension, social, health and any other system. As we are always older society, people are living longer and young people are not, and there are fewer employees. And in some ways these young people cannot bear all this burden. And speaking of fertility, if I have already operated on those sports grants this morning with specific numbers, I will also try to operate as closely as possible in this debate. The birth rate in Slovenia is 1.57 children per mother at birth age. For a long-term nation to survive, this number must be more than 2. It's not. And we are the average even as far as the European Union is concerned. This figure says that we will not survive on a long term as a nation, or that our culture will be suppressed along the edges or that the image of Slovenia will be quite different than it is today if we do not start to do something about greater fertility. And, of course, here usually, when I go after Slovenia, there comes an immediate counter-initiation or counter-intelligence, a counter-intelligence that I will use the more correct Slovenian terms, yes, Tonin, what did you do for your birthright. First, tell me how many kids you have. Now, I'm somewhere on that number two that's on the border, and I haven't said the last word yet, that's what I have to say. And of course, it all begins with us, that as a society or as a people we decide for more children. Of course, you probably agree with me that we who sit in Parliament are the most called and the first called to create the best possible conditions for young people to make decisions for children. And three things appear in all of the studies as key to why young people decide for their children. For the first time, the values of society encourage you to be encouraged at home to have more children as a family. Another matter is the housing problem, whether the family can go somewhere to live, or whether it has a roof over its head. And the third thing is jobs, jobs to survive. With regard to the housing problem, I think the country has a few levers because it can help young families. More about this, my colleague, Iva Dimic, will discuss what we will propose in this area, so that I do not go into this area now. With regard to values, I think that we also have an extraordinary task and duty here for politicians to encourage and create an climate that is good for having children. And you can already see some differences in Slovenia. I point out Poland and Selska Valley several times, where if you look at their statistics and the average number of children, it deviates significantly from the rest of Slovenia. Obviously there are values of such, there is such a culture, which also encourages more children's lives, and if they were to move this on to the whole of Slovenia, they would take one important step forward. Now for the jobs. As far as jobs are concerned, I wouldn't burden you with our program, because of course here you're probably thinking your own. But I'm going to touch one thing that's also connected to jobs. This is the coordination of professional and family life. And here we now come to this proposal of our amendments to the Kindergarten Act, which is still important for some harmonisation of professional and family life. Thank God we have young people who have jobs and jobs, great to be as many as possible. But from the point of view of birth, there is nothing that helps us if these youths live in fear of having no place to give their children. Parents are too young to be retired to care for them, and they have no other choice. And kindergarten is the only chance they have. Unfortunately, in the current situation in many family budgets, kindergarten is an important and difficult burden. And if we can do something as a policy, then that billion that has become more into the state budget at the time of economic growth would be given to cover this cost of children in kindergarten. I think that the solution introduced by our government in 2004-2008 has been very positive if you look at how many more children have been involved in kindergarten because this matter has been more accessible and accessible to parents. Parents were more likely to have two children in kindergarten. This is also important from the point of view of the social inclusion of children and in some ways if you look at the statistics that you will find very unusual if you look at the number of children, the specific nominal number of children born in Slovenia, for example, somewhere from 2000 onwards, and today, you find that, interestingly, at the time of the largest economic boom of the children. We fell there somewhere for generations of 17,000 children, while there, somewhere since 2008, when there was a little economic crisis, this number began to increase and came back again over 20,000. I am sure that it is part of the reason why this happened, including the fact that we had a properly regulated question of kindergartens, in the way that parents had an accessible kindergarten, and also as far as maternity and other things were concerned, things were relatively well arranged and many mothers seemed safe to withdraw to maternity during this economic crisis and pressure. That's what I see the reason. In short, let me finish. If you look at our neighbors, now it's been, I think, what kind of day ago has been published that Italy is threatened by a record low birthrate, but there the government immediately reacted, came with 100 million amounts to support families because of these trends turning a little bit. Unfortunately, we in New Slovenia feel that the issue of demography and fertility is obviously a topic that goes beyond the mandate of this government coalition, that no one wants to deal with it. But once again, if we want to survive as a nation for a long time, we need to have children and create the right conditions. And this law that we are proposing today is a step towards that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mrs. Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u116	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleague, colleague! Pre-school education is an important segment in education and education throughout the vertical region, as it has an important impact on all further educational steps by individuals. Therefore, it is also very important how funding is carried out. I agree that the financing of the country in respect of payments for kindergartens continues to be maintained to a certain extent, but through sound measures, how to ensure maximum access to inclusion in kindergarten. Although a free kindergarten measure has been mentioned several times today in 2008, I cannot help but refresh or repeat what this 2008 measure has brought. In 2010, the Court of Auditors assessed the effects of this measure. In doing so, it was found that this measure proved to be flawed or ineffective. In other words, I will list these three reasons, although we have already heard them: parents who had one child and parents with multiple children with the same income were in an unequal position, because parents with one child paid more for kindergartens, then there were families with more children, among whom there were too many age differences of children and there was no improvement in financial accessibility, and at that time the parents of children who would not otherwise have been involved in kindergartens – these children visited the kindergarten disorderly or not at all for a long time, and it happened that children who were on the waiting list were not on the waiting list, the children who needed protection simply did not come in line. This is said to have several complex effects on children, which need to be considered more precisely, in the proposal to amend the way payments are financed. Today I have not heard that many years ago we have dealt with the fact that each child would have had three square meters of playing space, it is said that we would have met spatial norms. Because of the large enrolment of children in kindergartens — we now know that some kindergartens are very busy — this norm will not be feasible. The other thing is, how's the investment? In 2008, we know that there has been a lack of space and there has been a solution to this problem on the shoulders of the congregations. After all, the congregations proved to be very good, but there were quite a number of problems at the time. So we should also think further about how investments are to be made. And the third thing is the state budget. The State budget has been adopted and there is no resources under this adopted state budget to increase the scope of the rights. I've heard quite a few debates about fertility today. I think that this measure proposed by New Slovenia would have a partial impact on fertility, but we forget the main things that are most important, it is employment that young people will have a job to solve housing policy. So I think this proposal is only in third place. I will not say that it will not affect, but not to the extent that the proposaler has presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get Mrs. Violet ready. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, proposer. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Since the topic is that we are talking about measures that actually allow for a positive view of family policy, I think it is important to stress once again when you refer to the Government's opinion that illogical and unequal treatment of parents has been found in relation to the same income situation of families and so on. I must stress that this is still happening because the prices of kindergartens across Slovenia are different. Regardless of the income class, prices vary. And then, according to the income class, some third - grade kindergarten in a congregation can be worth a few ten euros more than in another congregation, and they have the same income that is calculated through social work centres. So that's still happening. And now you're pulling for it to be obvious. That's still the way it is, but it's not over. Therefore, I say that family policy measures should be considered. It was said that something would affect or would not affect. Look, I have here a table on the movement of births from 1980 to 2015. And the measure adopted in 2008 was actually a measure that greatly raised the number of births in Slovenia. According to his colleague Tonin, when we had the lowest or lowest number of births, this was between 2001 and 2004, when between 17 thousand 477 and 17 thousand 961 were born. Then they were two years or three years old when births were going on somewhere between 18,000 and 19,000. Then in 2008 it comes for the first time after almost ten years at 21 000 817 and then in 2009 21 000 856. So in the first year, the difference is 49. But then it's interesting, in 2010, 22 thousand 343, that means 421 more births. In 2011 21 000 947. In 2012 21 000 938. So the rate was slightly different. Then already in 2013 21 000 100 and so on and now I am reducing us every year. And I really expected, given what they did in Italy, the title in Italy was a record low birthrate and Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni actually announced a generous family policy overnight, the day after the official data of the statistical office was published. In order to support families this year, 600 million and 700 million next year are expected to receive greater support from parents who have children in kindergarten. So they woke up right after the announcement, practically, and saw that something was wrong and that something had to be done. And we had last year's presentation of this data by Umar in the Union Hall, and there was also a colleague of the SMC Group leader Simona Kustec Lipicer, and I really expected that something would happen because the representative of Umarja Mr Vasle told us what the situation was. And what I said here is a representative of the largest coalition party, and yet something will be done in this direction. After one year, it's nothing. And I said, it is high time that we were aware that we were discussing this, so the New Slovenia Group has already twice submitted conclusions to support positive demographic trends, even shortly ago, a few months or in autumn time, and it has been said that it will be better when we receive a resolution on a long-lived society by 31 March. If I'm not mistaken, it's in a few days. I look forward to it, I expect it to be in my hands, however, to have this resolution of a long-lived society in order to see what is envisaged. I hope that it will be slightly different from the vision of Slovenia by 2050, that it will have what calculations, because otherwise I cannot imagine some serious, responsible policy. True, there are two ways to respond to a problem. Either we deal with him or we ignore him and act like he's gone. What and how will we decide on this issue? Are we going to start saving him or are we going to continue, or are we going to do a good year before the elections, pretend he's gone and that he doesn't exist? This is also, of course, a question for the largest coalition party. Are we going to deal with this problem and start to solve it in some way or not? We see that Italy has decided to take care of its demographics, the existence of its people, and we somehow cannot decide, despite the fact that the Government has committed 200 million in the past, various needs have been shared. But here we're talking about 10 million, and none of that. And it's like I don't know what kind of incomprehensible money it is. 200 million were distributed after the budget was adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u119	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get Violeta Tomic and the Mags ready. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good bye to all of you! I especially welcome the distinguished Secretary of State and her colleague! Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the Law on Kindergarten, namely the amendment of the Law on Kindergarten, which was tabled in the National Assembly by Nova Slovenija. In this amendment, Nova Slovenija proposes that parental payment for kindergarten be determined in accordance with the law governing the exercise of rights from public funds. Parents who have two or more children in kindergarten at the same time pay for an older child at a lower price for one class and for younger children, the payments would be exempt. For a child enrolled in a kindergarten programme who has reached the age of 5 years, parents shall pay 50% of the payment prescribed under the law as payment to parents for kindergarten. The measures in the amount of the difference to the reduction in the payment of kindergartens shall be provided to kindergartens from the State budget. And then there's the problem. I will say so, I do not oppose the proposal to give families more money to pay for kindergartens, but, of course, I represent the view that fair and financially acceptable subsidies must be provided for all measures. Furthermore, it is also necessary to have in mind the whole of the problem of providing funds for greater inclusion of children in kindergartens, so I believe that more resources should be provided in the budget in 2016, 10 million and 21 million euros in the coming years. That means, of course, a problem, like I said. Indeed, we have the country's budget adopted, and there is no provision for these funds in this budget. We are also bound by the fiscal rule we have adopted. These increased subsidies would, of course, lead to more children being included in kindergarten, which, of course, is our goal, but we do not have sufficient spatial capacity for new children who, of course, need to be included in kindergarten. But we must therefore re-provide additional resources to provide additional kindergarten facilities. That is why, of course, I agree with the concept of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport that the inclusion of preschool children in kindergarten needs to be increased, as this, of course, gives all children a better chance of development and greater visibility and facilitates their inclusion in school obligations when they reach that age. And, of course, I agree with the opinion of the Secretary of State, who said that this number was 95% of the population. I would, of course, be 100 %, but there are always some reasons why not everyone is involved, and I very much agree that the maximum number is and that this number is, of course, 95. Therefore, as I have already said, provision should be made for the spatial increase in the capacity of kindergartens and the provision of fair financial resources, fair subsidies to families, which would, of course, make it easier to link the place to the end of their family budget and, of course, put their children in kindergarten. The government is preparing a new law in this area, and, of course, I will not support this proposal today. However, I expect the Ministry to put this law on the government as soon as possible, and then we will have the Members on our bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u121	I was wrong about the sequence before, so I'll read it right again. Now she gets the word of Mrs Violeta Tomić, followed by Mrs Ludmila Novak and then Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. As we have already said in our position, in the United Left we support all measures that reduce the plight of people, especially those who are the poorest. That is why we also discussed our proposal yesterday to remove the child allowance from the social benefits, and we were, unfortunately, rejected, as well as shows poorly your proposal, Nova Slovenija. We had a piece yesterday on poverty. Anita Ogulin, of the Youth Friends’ Union, spoke of the terrible things she encounters in her day - to - day work. I must say that humanitarian organisations are very much committed to what we should provide here with legislation and what the Government should actually provide. We will support this proposal of yours, although we cannot agree in any way with your argument, because Nova Slovenija does not advocate family policy, but rather a more naturalistic policy. You come from the fact that we must have more births in Slovenia. Of course, such discourse treats children more than the future workforce. Quality of life should be a quality in itself. You come from a question of what the state can do for greater fertility. Of course, it can do more with smarter family policies, but one of the important factors in deciding on the birth of children is the coordination of work and family life. And I certainly cannot agree with my colleague Tonin, who gave first place to the decision to give birth to children of value, only then to the problem of housing and employment. As we know, many employers in these neoliberal spheres condition women's employment by having to sign that they will not give birth. We should be dealing with this problem. How many young women would have children and not have them if they wanted to get a job. You're talking about the existence of a nation, but here it is, you know, a lot of infertile couples. At the same time, you are also advocating a ban on fertilization with biomedical assistance to single women. And adoptions. Even if the same - sex couples could adopt children from abroad, they would probably help with the demographic picture. In short, short-term demographic problems also solve migration. And that's why Frau Merkel said "refugees welcome" and then everyone went after her. Because it is also aware that the European population is making sure that the major socio-economic consequences of this ageing concern the health system, the pension system, the long-term supply of the labour market, education and so on. We reject the young family, send it back to Croatia, regardless of the birth of the child in Slovenia. Here it is inconsistent or there is actually a commitment here only for births which are domestic, Slovenian, pure-blooded, indigenous, conceived in traditional families and traditional relationships not to say that it is possible in some traditional pose. In short, population ageing is [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. Nice to meet you. Tonin said he hadn't said the last word on the subject. I'm so glad he won't stop with two kids. My colleague Iva has five. So you're an example of this improvement in demographic imagery. In short, it's lucky that we have a smaller birth rate than we did hundreds of years ago, but we also have a smaller mortality rate. Where would you have come from if it were like hundreds of years ago? And not only do we have a smaller mortality rate in children – thank God we have a better health system and better care – but the life expectancy is increasing, so that we are actually facing population ageing now. We agree that austerity measures need to be stopped immediately because they are actually harmful because they mean reducing public investment and spending on all public services. The tightening of belts brings poverty and general social setbacks, and it has already been demonstrated that it does not provide any economic recovery at all. On the contrary, it further deepens the economic crisis and every euro that the state saves on budget expenditure has a negative impact on the economy, as it directly reduces the demand for both individuals and businesses. And each so-called euro saved has so far reduced Slovenia's GDP by 1.6 euros. This is evidence of an infamous Public Finance Balance Act, with which Janšev's government has saved EUR 460 million, but at the same time the GDP has decreased by EUR 700 million. In short, the only ones benefiting from saving are the ones most powerful, because in reality it is only a matter of forcible elimination of social gains and labour rights with a view to increasing profits. All governments are trying to convince us that this is very good for everyone, but that higher profits will bring more investment and, as a result, more jobs, that is not true. This is not happening anywhere in Europe. Higher profits mean more luxury yachts, more luxury villas and a whole lot of wealth in tax havens. And on the other hand, more and more impoverished people. When writing a fiscal rule into the constitution, many have applauded, some have opened champagne, and today we see that this is a doorknob, when we want to do whatever we can to help those who should be helped by the cash flow to run and circle within the population and, of course, to go through this money to eliminate social injustices. Yesterday you also confirmed the Fiscal Council and you're talking about the crisis ending. Yes, the crisis has definitely ended for those 10% of the richest people that this government has given priority to after tax leave, and this year we have seen a decline of as much as €80 million. We have also received the opinion of the Government, which says that it has no money for such measures proposed by Nova Slovenije has neither infrastructure nor personnel. The country must provide enough vacancies in kindergartens. Accessibility must ensure for all families, for this means a better quality of life for them. Everyone will work easier, and it will be easier for them to take care of their leisure hours if their children are safely put away. We also have enough job seekers in the pre-school education sector, and we think that with a certain political will we can resolve this completely peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u123	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the word to prepare themselves for the Mag. Bojana Muršič and Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u124	Your Honor! Once again I have read the Vision of Slovenia and will read only one sentence: “The rapidly ageing population is not a negligible challenge, but it is a lifesaving one.” But nowhere does it say how we will solve this problem, and we all know for a long time that the demographic picture in Slovenia is extremely bad, that we need more births to easily restore the nation. We can close our eyes, and we can solve this problem by immigration — and we see that some refugee families need apartments, but we do not have much sense of putting them in an environment. So we can't expect to solve all the problems of demographics simply by immigration. And we'll say, "Let's do it with repatriation." So, Slovenians who had to move out because of different circumstances, mostly after World War II, have very large families in Argentina, third generation, excellent Slovenian language, go to Slovenian schools, let's make a program to get them back. And I'm afraid we're going to hear a lot of ugly, bad words and stuff again if we suggest something like that. And I think it would be good and even fair. So, what are we gonna do? Last January, the meeting we proposed was also on demographic issues, and then Minister Anja Kopač Dark assured me that by the end of 2016 a strategy on long-lived society would be prepared. If I am not mistaken, we are already in 2017, almost half a year has passed, and I do not think we have seen these strategies. At that time, it was also promised that the Government would prepare a series of analyses for strategic documents to improve this demographic. However, I did not hear that — except for a document that was prepared quickly before our meeting — so the meeting was suspended and continued after a month and a half. Well, I haven't heard from you since. Apart from the vision of Slovenia, which is, we will say, a fairy tale or a list of our wishes, what we would like to be, but nowhere does it say how we will achieve it. I'm afraid we have nothing. And when we waited for the Government to propose a series of measures to improve all of this or at least a few steps towards improving demographics, there were no such measures. That is why we have proposed this measure free of charge to another child in kindergarten who has already produced some positive results in the past. Why is it so important that another child is free? I have many conversations with young families, mothers who have stayed with one child. And many times they said, yes, because we thought two, but then we did a little bit of a stretch, and then we didn't have any more diapers, and we realized we were already having a good time, and then we didn't choose another baby anymore. This measure, however, was somehow an incentive for parents to make earlier decisions because they were motivated in some way. I believe that most young people want to create a family, of course, we need certain conditions for this. As has already been announced, in New Slovenia we still have a number of measures prepared to encourage this. And, as always, the economy is the best foundation for the social state and, of course, for a good family policy. The economy. Real measures for the economy, jobs and so on. Then we listen to stories about capitalists, which should all be closed, we all have to give universal basic income, equip the Roma with their settlements and apartments, tax the farmers as much as possible and so forth. Some imagine self - care by taking their car to the field, opening the trunk, and picking up crops and similar things. So let us do something concrete to encourage young people to make decisions. Of course, when he spoke to Tonin about values, that the first condition is values. Of course, because we find that the material state alone is not the only condition for a person to decide on multiple births. So respect for life, the desire to give life and also the willingness to raise children, to make sacrifices in some way, to be open to it, these are values that people somehow afterwards, I will say, encourage that they also have more children. So the values are the first, and then there are the conditions they have to have, from work, from housing, from protection and so on. And this 10 million, this could sound a lot, compared to all the money we put in the bank holes we gave to the failing companies, so to speak, that money we put into many other failed projects would be very well invested in the future of the nation. That's what this is about. The future of the people. And we know that every year languages are falling, nations are falling, much bigger than Slovenia, so I don't think we can afford to put our heads in the sand and take any concrete steps to improve this situation. And that's what all the sparrows on the branches are telling us. That's what Umar says, that's what the European Commission says, that's what scientists say. We all know that. There's somewhere to start. I cannot accept that we care less about the fact that only bears will live in Slovenia, as colleague Iva said, but they will not, because Slovenia is a beautiful country to remain empty, but others will fill this place. If we don't care, I don't! This is therefore the first of concrete measures to encourage young people to make better decisions for larger families.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u125	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! This afternoon we continue to examine the laws submitted by Nova Slovenije. This morning, the bill's proposals were addressed, which actually gave rise to a reduction of revenue, but today we are talking about laws that increase the spending side. So you're asking yourself where we are right now. Of course, this law, which we have in the parliamentary procedure, has had effects already in 2008. I must say that the bill is well-liked, I cannot deny it, and even on the spot, given that we are becoming a long-lived society, we need to raise fertility. But the question is, with what measures can we raise this fertility and how can it affect better family life. I think we need to look for conditions or measures of birth somewhere else. Today's working rhythm of families is completely different than it was, we'll say, 20 years ago. Family life is unadaptable, as your MPs say many times in the debates, and our work here is uncomparable, and I will not focus on our work, I will focus on work, I will say, on some average employee who works from 8 to 17 hours before he gets home, it is 6:00 p.m., says – when will he devote himself to his family? And of course, all young families will first consider what the children will have from me. And in this story, they only decide for one child. Otherwise, I'd like you to have more of these children, but if I look at it, I believe that the quality of life of such families is actually worse. In the past, parents have actually worked from six to two hours, at three we have actually eaten, we have started to have quality afternoon leisure, we have gone to nature, we have studied, and it has been essentially different and more quality of our lives, such as today's rhythm and life. Of course, institutions like schools and kindergartens are adapting to this, which is good, but we do not have a child to have the bulk of them in institutional protection, but to deal with them. For this reason, I, on the one hand, understand these young families to be very late in deciding for their children, and then they end up staying with one child. Whether the action of another child free of charge in kindergarten is the right thing to do, and that by doing so we will raise the birthrate, I will say, that is not exactly what I stand for. It should only change the organization of family life, change the role of a woman in society, change the child’s attitude towards family planning, this is the real coordination of the family and working environment, even with employers should somehow find a consensus not to be asked by the employer first, or are you planning a family, or will you have a child in due course, because then you do not actually get a job. There is also housing policy, which has been changing lately and is actually better conditions, but I think there is still a lot to be done here. Given that this law, which you are now proposing in some very similar way, from 2008, has had some effects and the effects have also been on the part of local communities. At the time, local communities faced a major problem because parents had enrolled children in kindergartens, there was no capacity, there was no means of investment either, and somehow we were looking for ways to involve children, because every child who wanted to, or every parent who wanted to include their child in kindergarten, we felt that it was right to institutionalize it to give it conditions for, I will say, good life, good life, good life guidelines. And that was good in this context, but there were a number of problems on the part of the congregations. Not to mention that all municipalities do not pay the same costs for kindergartens. This is an even bigger problem and parents therefore have different prices in urban centres, in rural areas. And what the Court of Auditors then found was that the Ministry had not planned adequately on the objectives of improving the accessibility of pre-school education, although improvements had been made in the area of the inclusion of children in pre-school education. In doing so, the Court of Auditors also notes that there has been no improvement in financial accessibility to preschool education, that the Ministry has not been sufficiently effective here, is the result. In 2012, I know that this measure, adopted in 2008 in the field of family compensation, parental allowance, parental allowance, child support, birth care, large family allowance, was achieved by the ZUJF, and that these measures were not the right thing to do today. After all, we are in this situation that our fertility is falling. The number of children is always lower. And if you allow me, I would only touch myself if, given that Mrs Iva Dimic, as a proposal for the amendment of the Holidays and Work Act at the end of 2016, said that the elections were clearly coming, then the ruling parties would generally start to share candy, which she also stated in 2008, a free meal for all students, in 2008 also a free kindergarten for the other and all other children. I think we're also in front of these sweets in the coming year, mag. But I'm not going to quote tone in this context. However, without offense, I do not claim that this set of measures was wrong, but the implementation, as I said at the outset, was at least catastrophic for the local communities, because there were no conditions. The current situation is significantly different than it was then. And since I have to leave my colleague some more time, I thank you for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u127	Ms Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I agree that, given the situation we are witnessing in Slovenia, it is really difficult to reconcile work and family life and that we should do more here. My appeal to the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disability Minister Anja Kopač Mrak on several occasions is that we need to consider how we will protect young mothers in order to make a better decision. We hear all too often, "yes, because we would have another child," or, as Violet Tomić said, they don't even hope to go to maternity school, not for the first one. We should find out in a way. And I suggest you find a way to find a way for young people under the age of 30 and for older than 55 years. I think we owe this too – to enable moms to be moms. To make it easier for them to coordinate their professional and family lives. I believe that the Minister is monitoring and that she has heard the appeal of New Slovenia again, that there is also a need to arrange for young women, for young mothers some kind of security, social security, if they decide to devote themselves to family life. So they won't be afraid of what happens after the maternity leave, whether they have a job or not. Especially from this point of view, then it will be easier for another child to decide. So our measure, as far as kindergarten is concerned, is some kind of financial burden on parents. That's what we wanted. And it's part of a family policy. We should also consider how we can help. Local communities were mentioned. It is true, even in the Government's opinion, that the local communities had a cost in the years when this law entered into force when proven after so many years, and from 1991 to 2007, births did not exceed 20,000. So, after so many years, it's been known and births have gone up to 21,000 whole. And the local communities were building kindergartens, investing in it, no one helped them, they found some reserves. The municipalities still have long-term loans at the expense of this. But do you know what we're gonna do if this number goes down again? We'll leave them on dry land, local communities, again. If there's not enough births in the next five years, these kindergartens will be alone. And what did we do? Local communities have a double cost. That is why this law goes in the direction of somehow starting this cycle again in Slovenia. My colleague Tonin said they were important values. Of course, values are important, even when we make decisions about the number of children when making decisions, not least how you lead family and professional life affects values. However, if we compare countries such as France, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, which currently have the highest birth rate in the European Union, we are not just talking to them about values, but it is important that they have achieved and maintained a relatively high level of fertility over the decades with family policy. So, over the decades with family policy, it's not a policy that changes to three years. For decades. And then this is a reflection that, as I said, France, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway even have. They have a family policy that has been counted in decades and which has actually brought them higher birth rates, the highest birth rate in the European Union. It seems to me that this is the path that we must do together, push, and help that this family policy in Slovenia will also have some long-term, stable, mutual, as the United Left says, a solid impact on the increase in birth rates, on the reconciliation of professional and family life and on the fulfillment of every woman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u129	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Prepare Mrs Jelka Godec and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Respectable Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! I have already explained in the opinion of the Group that the education and protection system is a very important part of our educational system, because it is not only preparation for further education, but even more, in my personal opinion, in fact the first inclusive moment of our community. So kindergarten is a place of integration where our youngest are preparing for a broader social life and also to learn the values that our society cultivates. Therefore, the debates that touch on such topics, in my view, are important, but can only be effective and constructive when we also have a broader picture of what certain measures in the field of education and education mean or have what consequences. We have before us a marriage proposal, which was already in force in 2008-2012, which we have heard in previous discussions, namely a free kindergarten for another child, which unfortunately proved to be ineffective. When I listen to the proponent, who is also referring to a demographic picture, who, as I would call it, in the spirit of some nationalism scares the nation before we die out and how this beautiful land, where only bears and deer will eventually live, will be inhabited by someone else, some stranger. You know, I can understand that this is a legitimate position and, on the other hand, it is important to be aware that Slovenia is part of the world. We are not some lonely island in the middle of space, but we live on a planet where there are more and more of us every day. Unfortunately, most of them are hungry and unhappy. This is the truth of our world. And when we talk about the analysis showing that this measure has also raised fertility, let us be truthful. In fact, this measure took too short to allow any concrete analysis to say that this measure was effective as regards the demographic picture. We can't say that. Because if we were to simplify things so easily that two of us would decide to have another child, I don't know how you imagine it, I don't know. [[…]] That one partner would say to another: "You, listen, would you have another?" "Well, let's, you know, kindergarten is free." I mean, you know, that kind of simplification, I don't think it's appropriate for the National Assembly. In particular, if we leave demographics aside, this measure, which was in force, has encountered a negative response from the Court of Auditors, i.e. because the proposal did not respect or take into account the relative equality in the treatment of parents in relation to the same income situation of the family. I am surprised that the proposal actually discusses how this bill would make the whole system somewhat more transparent. I mean, if this is the case, then why did the Court of Auditors give a negative opinion on this proposal or on this measure that has already been in force? Because I think the Court of Auditors is really the only institution that can really talk about transparency and transparency. And, of course, the Court of Auditors cannot be me, nor can I, of course, proposer. Thus, the key problem of the measure already in force was not to look at the income of the individual family but only to determine the number of children. That's a fact. What does that mean in practice? This meant, in practice, that parents who have, say, higher incomes a month or higher may have a free kindergarten for another child, but the fact is that parents with high incomes can afford it anyway when they think about the design of a family, more children than those who do not have higher incomes and, if I say so, they can only afford to care for one child. Even more so, when the measure was in force, there were also situations in which the parents of the child were enrolled in kindergarten, and he was not regularly visited. And since it is still true that this child is not legally able to be written, it has happened that the cities have been occupied and then some children needing kindergarten so that parents — what we have heard today — can finally devote themselves to the work and development of the profession, especially women, wait in line or then parents have to look for other forms of protection that have been less favourable to the child from a sociological point of view as well as to the family budget. Children who, if I may say so, remain side by side most of the time are those children who don't have brothers or sisters, so we're talking about the only ones. Since we also adopted a family code yesterday and were full of mouths about how to treat children equally and appropriately regardless of what kind of family they come from, of course we cannot discriminate against children coming from larger families or from those coming from smaller families, if I may say so. And you know, when we listen to the argument that family is a value – of course, because I too am a value, but one is to take family as a value, and one is really this value to idolize until disability. Why? I say this mainly from the point of view, because then there is a very quick discourse where the responsibility of parents – this is what we need to talk about when we talk about family as a value – then, also in terms of the design of family, it simply translates into a country. I'm sorry, this philosophy is not close to me, I don't think it's just bad, especially I don't think it's responsible. But, yes, here we must be honest to say that it is a very well-known model of conservative thinking that touches family policy, and the fact is that this more conservative part of the thinking of both family policy and social policy has actually been present in us for the past 25 years. And you know, when this spirit of nationalism is emphasized on the one hand after a greater birth, after a better birth, and, on the other hand, putting responsibility on the side of the country rather than on the side of the parents, to judge for themselves how they're going to make a family, and when they're so idolizing these values, then I wonder when, in this debate, this idea will fall again, which was once before, and fortunately did not stop when we started as a community to discuss, but maybe even more tax people who don't have children. Because, of course, they did not provide offspring who would then pay our pensions to all of us once in the future, and let's say in this debate it never takes into account the fact that then these children who will grow up will have a job to provide this pension at all. In view of what I have said, I am opposed to the bill itself, but above all, I think it is appropriate to bring the inclusion of three-year-olds, four-year-olds in preschool education, where it would be appropriate to consider trying to achieve the EU's strategic objective, as has already been said, and this will also somehow try to take into account or add additional efforts to the new Kindergarten Act prepared by the Ministry. As it is said, I have never talked about the fact that New Slovenia's proposal would be non-systematic, as has been seen, unfortunately it is ineffective, and this is an essential difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u131	Ms Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you very much. That's what I had to take. I only have one god, I don't idolize my family. However, I am sorry that you do not take this into account, so to speak, some so pro-European-oriented, how they perceive nativity in neighbouring Italy, Sweden, Norway, France and as I have said before. Italy, I don't know now if they're really fanatical about giving 600 million to help families this year, next year 700 million. So you're taking them as little Italian fanatics or as you'd call it. I don't understand or I don't know if you know what we're saying. And you're saying it's wrong for me to favor my family and idolize it and so on. Listen, the problem is in Slovenia – and big – that our young people are leaving. And part of family policy is also housing policy, a policy to provide jobs for young people. You don't do this the way you should in the coalition. How many words have already been said, what will be done, what will be done to keep young people here in some way, and to encourage them to make decisions about life together more easily, if they also have, they put housing issues first and foremost. And you're saying that nothing is taken into account and that this isn't some kind of key. Of course it's the key to the young man. Where he's going. The first question is where he's going, then the second question is how he's going to survive it, how he's going to survive it. That's why it's important. But if we can't ensure to young people that they have jobs to have if they go abroad, after we make a proposal in New Slovenia, that they also need to unload their family budget with kindergartens, help with some facilities for renting apartments to solve the housing problem first and so on, and say, no, this is all too much out of control Yes, I don't know what's gotten out of control. [[…]] I'm sure your demographics got out of control. It was said, a criticism of the Court of Auditors. Listen. In this national assembly, so many critics of the Court of Auditors have been heard — and what is left of these criticisms? The criticism of the Court of Auditors was about the establishment of a state forest company. This was a criticism of the Court of Auditors. And yet, the company was set up. And now, last week, we saw what happened. Then there was criticism of the Court of Auditors about chimney services and could also list what we had done. No such final solutions, extended from one year to another. These were the criticisms of the Court of Auditors. And now you're talking about when you need to get the kids and the families, and you're referring to the Court of Auditors. On other options, I will draw out all the criticisms of the Court of Auditors within the mandate from 2014 until now, and we will see how much criticism of the Court of Auditors and what you have done.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u133	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Prepare Mr Joseph Horvat and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that some of the Members who have talked about maiming the family, and that the value of the family is being magnified, should read the third paragraph of Article 53 of the Constitution of Slovenia. And for all those who have never read it, it says: “The state protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection.” And that one of these conditions for the protection of the family, for young people, for children is this proposal of New Slovenia today, so to return to the old one from 2008, on the proposal that for another child the kindergarten is free. And if you're saying that that action was ineffective, I expected numbers, specific numbers. Not to say anything, it was ineffective because it was necessary to build kindergartens because the congregations had invested in it. See, investments in kindergartens, education, preschool education, from primary school and so on, it's a long-term investment. This is an investment in human education, in personnel, in citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who should stay in Slovenia, but still go out. Even though we're investing in them. These are these investments, and this isn't a waste of money. A party that has been thrown away is what is sung and drank as a representative in the congregations. It's a waste of money. Money in kindergarten and in school is capital in human resources, and you need to be aware of that. Saying that it is a nationalist measure because we care for the Slovenian nation, for the Slovenian family, is one way or the other from the debate of that Member who said that. Investing in Slovenian youth is not a nationalist measure. Because, as the colleague said, to preserve the Slovenian nation, the Slovenian family, I do not consider it a nationalist measure. It is about preserving Slovenian culture, Slovenian language, Slovenian people. If this is nationalistic for you, then I don't know how, in what way, to keep this family, these kids at home, to go home and stay at home, if we invest in them, to stay here and return with their knowledge of economic development. Now, here's the thing. You said there was no money. I understand. The budget is closed and so on. But there is no problem in giving money for the passage of refugees, 32 million in 2016, there is no problem in giving 300 million for Ljubljana, there is no problem in giving 130 million for migrants and refugees, no problem, as last said by colleague Gorenak, for the purchase of condoms to migrants 20 million, about what we are talking about today, but it is such a terrible problem. And it's about the kids. For those kids who would go to kindergarten, or for families. And then you talk 'cause they can't afford a baby. This is just to talk about having a child for a child, not to afford it! [[…]] But if you're looking at having a child, through money, then it's sad, then you better not have one. It's better that those families don't have a child if they're talking in style, or if I can afford one. But we're talking about making up your mind about him and taking care of him, both financially and otherwise. I do not agree with the fact that we continue to go to social services, so that we continue to help with social contributions and so on. People are always waiting for what the country will give. It is necessary to make an economic country, growth and so on, so that there will be no need for such social transfers so that it will not be necessary to give another child a free kindergarten. But Prime Minister Cerar said that according to the new in Slovenia, honey and milk flow. So 20 million won't be a problem. We have economic growth, we have prosperity, we have businesses working, we have jobs, then we give. Not now to speak, but now they are the pre-election mints of the opposition, New Slovenia. Why don't you put them on the table? Why don't you put the pre-election candy on the table? Such discussions are pointless. So, to afford a child, it's sad for me, and that we can't find 20 million if that's just the grade. I think that these matters should be found sooner than any other matter that we are referring to in the Republic of Slovenia. Since there is no problem, it is voted immediately for which thing, because the coalition is voting, but when the opposition makes the proposal, I will say that the children are being funded – once again, this is funding for the future of our country – is a problem. Still, there's something else I have to say, because you said that children who didn't go to kindergarten were involved, and their parents did it because they had free. I don't know how it is in all municipalities, but in some municipalities, unemployed people have the advantage of including a child in kindergarten before employees. They've got more points. Now, tell me the logic here. A unemployed person, because when he's looking for a job, I don't say anything, he's got a head start on the employees. I know we were on the list with a third child, and those who were unemployed, and I'm not saying that they had a head start on their own guilt or whatever. That doesn't make sense. This needs to be changed so they can't have any more points. Why? If you're both busy! Where do you want the kids?Oh, my God! And the employees are regular for an indefinite period of time, but no, those who are unemployed have the advantage. And if I don't speak, then we can go to what the unemployed are doing at the time, not looking for jobs, but doing something else. But this is the second debate. Then, if they had one child in kindergarten, they paid more than those who had three children. Yes, because normally they paid more because they have less costs at home I mean, those who have three children have more costs – they have to bring three children up – than those who have one. [[…]] No model in paying for kindergartens and schools is ideal, but we need to get close to seeing most parents who will put their children in kindergartens as something ideal. We need to get close to that. And now, of course, we can find in every model, and yes, and this discriminated against is this discriminated against. It's everywhere, but we have to make an approximation to make everyone kind of happy. Don't say that the one who had one child paid more than the one who had three. Yeah, that makes sense. I mean, or maybe then I'm thinking wrong, but [[…]] [[…]] And waiting lists were filled with the children of those parents who were unemployed, not those who were employed. Then we have companies that are family-friendly companies. There are some companies that have kindergartens within the company. Have we, the country, ever thought about encouraging businesses to have kindergartens with them? So, you go to work, you bring the kid in there, not take him 15 kilometers to kindergarten, and then you have to take him to work for another 20 kilometers. It's a family-friendly company, not a family-friendly picnic. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, even privatisation, okay, just then you'll go to the luft. Then you'll jump again, but we want private kindergartens, and I don't know what it is, but why we put kids in private kindergartens, because that's where they don't learn that ideology, like in public schools or kindergartens. But [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. Well, look, since we can talk about it, there's no problem. But I say, then you'll jump. But that's the solution. Yeah, it's a solution, but I'm telling you, then there's gonna be a problem on that side. So, yeah. [[…]] Then it's the next thing. Two parents who are on social security and two parents who are on minimum wage. I'll tell you, more and more families with parents on minimum wages are living worse than those on social support. They're living worse. Now ask yourself, ‘ Who has the advantage in kindergartens or in paying for kindergartens? ’ Well, they're anomalies, but we just need to get close. And I say again, for me such a measure – I support it, definitely, but I would rather see that measures come to the table one where it would not be necessary for such measures in the country to be necessary. You'd be the one. But this is on this side that does nothing of its own and then wonders why the opposition comes with such things. You also have the option of having these pre-election mints, but you're just gonna have to do something. We have economic growth, a real prime minister, I think the president of the country also said that we have, oh, and ah. [[advertising from the hall]] Switzerland's a little off, yeah. But 20 million won't be found. Not that I'm talking about this money now, but there's nothing to let this law go on and then the amendments are getting rid of things. Oh, no. Of course we gave 2008, but if it was then, the money was, then it had to be taken because it wasn't. But now it is, I guess. Now it's money, and now it's economic growth. So let's do something. Then where do you put it? And then to the banks in Cimos. Look, there's no problem with a health secretary saying 25 million losses in the UKC, so what? We'll cover, said the digger to cover the country! Look at the difference! I can list other things where money can be obtained. So I say, with these statements you have there in the coalition, that it's a nationalist action, that it's a pre-election candy, and I don't know what it's all about, just calm down a little bit, and let's think carefully about these things, how to help families survive their childhood well, and how young. And of course with the measures to invest once again, in education is a constant problem with money because you always look wrong. [[…]] That's capital, that's money in human resources! That'll be left at home if we want. And we're the ones that are the ones that get the most squeezed here, if you, no, no, no, not because you don't know it right now, because if you put 20 million in education, you can't see it tomorrow. But you can see in 20 years or 10 years from now, and that's the problem, and that's still not in the country. So, investing in human resources. You don't have to waste money, you have to invest it wisely, but then we'll have it here. Then we'll have young engineers, and I don't know what everyone in the country will be left with. Now we're going to have two hours here about whether a kindergarten would be free for a child or not, whether it would help the family or not, and I finally hear that it's a nationalist measure. I support this law or this proposal, but of course I would be pleased if the Government came forward with such a measure that such proposals would not be necessary in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u135	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! If I continue with what my colleague Jelka Godec said at the end of this debate, I will immediately stop this debate if the coalition comes with concrete solutions to tackle the problem of demographics in Slovenia. Then all these debates are meaningless, because what the coalition will bring will certainly be accepted, and if it is good, of course we will also support in New Slovenia. This law is just a continuation of the discussions that we had at the meetings of the competent committees on the initiative of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, when we talked very carefully about the demographic problem of Slovenia. So that no one may ask us, yes, listen, you have only spoken, but what are the solutions; yes, these are the solutions. It's not just one solution, it's just a pebble in a mosaic of solutions. I am very sorry that respected colleague Tabakovic has now gone to use the tactics that we, who have been in the military, have sometimes called tactics strikes and flees. To face eye-to-eye and to debate, just as serious politicians are discussing. Let's discuss the numbers if you want. Not just in your head. First of all, I'd like to say that someone is obvious to us that we are idolizing some values, including the value of a family, for which the most young people in public research decide and say, yes, the family is my greatest value. And now some say or indeed, sir, this is idolatry. On the other hand, I hear that there is no problem if we have demographic problems, there is no problem if Slovenia and Slovenians are fewer and fewer every day, since there are more people around the world every day. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the way to the time when the Slovenian nation will be here, on this territory, a minority nation. We, to be sure – yes, some have already forgotten – received their national state, the Republic of Slovenia, after thousands of years of wishes in 1991. And today, if you say, I'm worried about the Slovenian people, I'm worried that the nativity will be too low All the mathematical models show us that it will be there in 2050, if we don't do anything, too late. [[…]] We won't be able to stop this collapse, this beach. 2050 is an interesting year. The vision of Slovenia 2050 writes somewhere in one sentence that in Slovenia there are happy people living in 2050. I'm in. But you know what I'm afraid of? If there will be no action, if we look at the perspective of the Slovenian nation, then I can say, yes, in 2050 they will be happy – those who will be in heaven, those who will be here on earth will live in the valley of tears. Because you're going to have 150 euros in pension. And nobody is doing this today, what the European Commission is telling us, what the International Monetary Fund told us today, that we are in the European Union, 28 in the EU, a society that is the fastest to be working for 100 pensioners today only 137 more active people. Every day we talk about statistics, what wages are, that there are too many people on minimum wages, every day we talk about what pensions are, that there are too many people after 40 years of working hours on miserable pensions. Is 300 euros of a person's pension worth a pension?Oh, my God! What about those who actually have nothing? When that famous left-wing government and minister Svetlik, when they picked up that so-called state pension, a few fiches, in fact, 170, 180 euros. But today it's not dark or it's dark. Yes, it is. Mr Tabaković, I will now be directly named, said that that action in 2008 that our coalition, when New Slovenia was also in the coalition, did not have any effect. If Mr Tabakovic – I lend it to him or copy it, Slovenian Time, number 82 – examined these tables, because so many numbers understand it, he could see the following. 2007, natural growth. 2007 When, of course, this law has not yet been implemented, as we wish to reintroduce it today, the natural increase has been a thousand 239. In 2008, when the law entered into force, after which the family received a second child financed in kindergarten, almost a 3-fold leap in natural growth, 3 000 509. In 2009 3 thousand 106 in 2010 3 thousand 734, in 2011 3 thousand 248, in 2012 – yes, and unfortunately we had to put this law out, it is already a downturn, 2 thousand 681. And in 2013 a thousand 777. In 2015 – 807, natural growth. I could be here right now developing and presenting figures on the migration deficit. But this is the saddest one, at least for me, in the way I look at the migration deficit and I see that the most is actually Slovenia and Slovenia. I don't even know if anyone's involved in this in government structures. Is it only Umar or the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia? What about the measures, but that's nothing? And when the current Italian Prime Minister, colleague Iva had already talked about this, they presented statistics to Mr Paolo Gentiloni, a dramatic statistics on demographics in Italy, immediately this year the Italian government decided to invest in families, because it is an investment, in the nation, in fact, 600 million, next year 700 million. Read what instruments the Italian government has chosen. And when we propose a tax relief law, it's always a scream and a scream and you tell us about it, yes, it's not possible, but it's going to be a tax deduction. The late Finance Minister Dr. Andrej Bajuk, the best finance minister in 25 years, said: "Of course, we have to support families, you know, as a finance minister, I also see that every newborn child is a new taxpayer." A simple solution, preserve the nation and keep the budget. Of course I'll support this marriage. But I don't understand those who oppose it. I don't understand those who are somehow against the Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u137	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that the debate is of course comprehensive, there is no doubt about it, but what is my starting point on this issue is that kindergartens should be free of charge, such as schools, secondary schools, primary schools, all that is less is, of course, too little. Of course, the question of reality is then asked what to do and how to do it. In fact, kindergartens are extremely important. In Slovenia we have a good tradition here, the percentage of children is large in kindergartens. They are important for socialisation, for economic reasons – although in socialisation I must say that not all children are for this, but, however, the vast majority of the benefits of this society of young people – and of course because we have quality kindergartens because education is already in kindergartens, if I may say so, at an extremely high level. The question of demography, which some directly attach to this question – I agree that this is a question of the nation, the existence of the nation, that we are too few to need a greater percentage of fertility, but what we have heard today – of course, the important dwellings for young people, the important services for young people, are no doubt, but – I think that actually value is what is even more; my way of thinking. What makes a decision is an index, today you'd say an index of happiness, of contentment with life. I think this value, if you want it, has the highest weight. But I must say that we are completely inadequate in explaining certain things. In fact, the issue of fertility is the question of civil circles. In India, where many are very poor, they have many children. In short, the correlation between birth and financial resources is not as direct as you are currently analyzing from year to year when a government gave 5% and a government gave 2%. But I must say that within each civilization individually, we have economic weaknesses that have their own logic, we have a middle class that has its own logic, and we have rich ones that have their own full logic. Within the same civilization. However, if anyone thinks that the percentage between 2004 and 2005 was higher and that people had more children because, by chance, there was one government in the government that year, but two years later there were fewer children because of the rule of another government, as today I am listening to your arguments from year to year, from date – that is, of course, sorry, this is confused with common sense. Thus things do not work in the lives of young people who want or do not want children, although I do not underestimate objective reasons. You know, years ago, I remember the first time that I was dealing with this issue a little bit more, in 1980, the end of 70, the beginning of 80, and I was looking at data for Furlania - the Julian landscape - I know that the gentlemen of New Slovenia don't care about this, Mr. Horvat, but I would say - and Slovenia on that side of the border, so Kras, Brda, the birth rate was to a minimum, I'll say, zero whole so much and so much, the same on both sides of the border. And we had another social system, completely different financial conditions were, there were richer, but simply, the civilization space was the same and had the same number of children or we had. This was this northern developed part of Italy and developed part of Slovenia. And it worked the same way despite the iron curtain, if you want, which some would like to have today, but unfortunately, for some, it is no longer, I am of course glad that it is not. In short, things are much longer than they could have done with a single law that saves some details, so I am for comprehensive solutions and, of course, for as little as possible austerity as possible under some real items. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u139	Ms Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Hainz, I expected, however, that when you started taking such a positive stand for free kindergartens as free primary schools, you would then support the issue, because this is at least the first step possible for free kindergartens. But I only wanted to respond to one thing, mainly about natural growth. Maybe you misunderstood Horvath's colleague. My colleague Horvath did not say that for a time when we were in government, natural growth grew, but even more. Unfortunately, New Slovenia fell out in 2008, but before that it passed this important law on kindergartens, and, of course, then, since 2008, natural growth increased and was high until 2012, and then the matter started to fall, and it was extremely beginning to fall just now, for the time of your government, in 2015, and for a very sensitive number, which is to be imagined, according to all the data. Italy did it, France did it, Sweden did it, Norway did it. What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u141	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Dr Dragan Matić and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'll support this marriage myself. I will support him because he returns what was adopted during the first government of Janez Janša. From 2004 to 2008, measures were taken that had a positive impact on all segments of society, including fertility. At that time, the government of Janez Janša created an environment, such as a favourable economic, financial, economic and, of course, social environment, which allowed young, young families to decide that they had more children. Then came a period when we had a period of left-wing socialist governments, which, first of all with all the proposals of various laws, including laws, tried to devalue the family, tried to devalue the favourable entrepreneurial environment, tried to devalue the work – not to consider doing something if you create something, but to consider how much social support you receive – they tried to devalue the international reputation of Slovenia, which has grown strongly under the first Janša government, and now, of course, they are also trying to devalue some positive demographic policy. I think that this measure is just one of the measures that would certainly help to ensure that there are more births in Slovenia, I think that this composition of the National Assembly is not addressing enough the key point which will be the problem – it is already a problem, and above all the problem will be in the future of Slovenia and other European countries – and that is demography. Europe is old, Slovenia is old, not everything, for example, regions or municipalities in this Slovenia is as lucky as those who live in the Poljanska Valley, where the average age is 37 years. The municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane is the first by the number of births in the country. But this is because there are people in the Polish Valley who think differently, who have a positive attitude towards work, a positive attitude towards entrepreneurship, a positive attitude towards agriculture. With us in the Poljanska Valley family with four, five, six children is not rare, but it is a rule. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is thought that is important and a favourable environment. We can also adopt such laws, but if the strategic state is not strategically oriented towards positive birthity, positive demographics, unfortunately these things do not help us. And such a proposal, such as the proposal of colleagues from New Slovenia, which we have already had, has, unfortunately, been abolished – it is now an opportunity for this national assembly to reaffirm this issue, in some way solving this problem. Then I'm listening to this national council, because the migrants are going to save our nativity. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what's happening in Macedonia right now? Do you know what's going on in Macedonia? It is only a matter of time before Macedonia is no longer a Macedonian country, but will also be a country of people who are otherwise citizens of Macedonia but are not Macedonians. There are discussions about whether two peoples, Macedonians and Albanians will be recognised there, whether there will be two languages, two religions and so on. Look, I'm talking to my colleagues from a party that is a sister party in the European People's Party, what is currently going on in Macedonia. This is a school case where you lose your country. But you would now import migrants, with them saving the nativity – yes, and then it's just a matter of time. One mosque is already installed, then the mosques will be elsewhere, demanding multilingualism, official multiculturalism, and what I know, what else. And the Slovenians, the Slovenian people, will lose our own country. Mr Tabaković, I understand that this does not mean so much to him, but to me as a Slovenian means everything. And as long as I am a member of the National Assembly, even of Slovenia, I will keep this in mind. And by my vote and by my own words I will never allow and will always advocate that the preamble of the Constitution is respected, that Slovenia is first the country of the Slovenian people, then of course all citizens and citizens. Read it. On the basis of an irrevocable decision of the Slovenian people. And no one in this country has the right to impose on the Slovenian nation something that he has fought over decades, centuries, if you will, until we have reached our own country. But that's the plan. This is not just a plan for Slovenia, it is a plan for the whole Balkans as well as a wider Europe. A plan supported by millions and millions of euros and dollars coming from Soros and other chaos financiers. However, I think that now is the extreme point and the extreme moment when thank God some U.S. senators have woken up, demanding certain reports and explaining where this path leads. We don't talk much about demographics. And don't fall for the fact that we're going to be rescued by migrants. After all, if I end up a little more humorous, somehow we can't put these things together. On the one hand, the government of Mira Cerar says that migrants will save our demographics and, on the other hand, give them free condoms. It doesn't work together.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u143	Come on. What kind of darkness are we in? In kindergarten. We're in kindergarten! That's the first topic. Second thing, the average age isn't 37 years old, but 73 to explain these things to you. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You'll get procedurally when I'm done. I mean, you were really at the border, and I think you went a couple of times over. Arousing hatred for others. By trying to highlight within the preamble of the Slovenian Constitution where it says “and”, a clear “and”, that is, the country of the Slovenian people and all citizens and citizens, but nevertheless, the awakening of hatred towards the other is not a suitable matter. [[…]] Really inappropriate at a point called the Kindergarten Act. I allow you, of course, procedurally, Mr Jan Mahnic. [[advertising from the hall]] Wait, wait, I'm sorry. She was the first thing they warned me about. [[…]] Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u144	Dear President, as a graduate educator of preschool children, I will tell you that values begin to be taught in kindergarten and that the values that children learn in kindergarten are also the fruit of their further development and also the full functioning of the country. But when you, the presidents, let go of my colleagues, and I warn you, let go also when violence, verbal delinquency and non-verbal delinquency occur in this national assembly. And there was no excuse on your part. These are values, respectable. And that's what's important to children in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u145	Otherwise, it wasn't procedural. Mr. Jean Mahnic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you, President. As far as the average age is concerned, I don't know where you got 73 years from, that's more or less the average age of any pensioner society at local level. But I said there's an average age of 37 in the valley. The average age in the Poljanska Valley is 37 years. You have a wife from the Jurassic. Ask her. She should know. That's the first thing. And then there's the other thing. But as for hatred, your debates and your actions, when the President of the Government, your party's president, literally showed you the door to your client's office, prove some other hatred, and this is hatred of the Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u147	I mean, now you're hurting on a personal level. But I'm used to these insults, so I can have a good time with them. But also, it is not procedural for you to express such insults. It really isn't. Let's take a look at the rules of procedure. This is for procedural issues, not for expressions of hatred and not for debate. But when I was in charge, I thought you were very close to going over the edge a few times, and I told you that. And I'm obliged to do it like the one who runs the procedure within the National Assembly. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, President. First of all, I must apologize to everyone, it is the Mayor of the Municipality of Gorenje Vas - Poljane Mr Milan Čadež who sent me a text that the average age in the Poljanska valley is not 37 years old, but 38 years. So I missed for a year. The second point is that it is not a matter of insult; it is mainly a substantive debate. You said I made up an average age of 37, but it's 73. In procedural terms, it concerns the management of the meeting, and since I assume that the words you have said will be that the average age is 73 years, not 37 years, including the reason for further discussion, and that the further discussion will be in the context of the Rules of Procedure or procedural matters, I have pointed out that you are not right. So my procedural proposal is to explain to me how you know that the average age is 73 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u149	I think I misunderstood you, that's the only thing I can say. I understood that what is common information, and this is the highest age that anyone reaches because it is usually spoken to, not the average age. However, this average age is virtually not used in discussions, but it does not matter. For my part, I apologize, for the part where you were insulting, you'll be able to apologize for yourself whether you will or not. I think we can move on. Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare for Mr Janko Weber and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I think there's too much populism in this darkness today and too many extreme views, there's no need for that at all. I regret to note that Mrs Iva Dimic, too, went a little in this direction towards some cheap populism, which was absolutely unnecessary when she made some assessments on how this government is putting money into some completely lame stuff, such as January 2nd, which brings nothing to the pensioners and the poor. They probably thought at the time in Novi Slovenija that some kind of January 6th would have brought pensioners and poor people more because they proposed alternative work on the day off or some church holiday that the whole country was supposed to have, that is to say those who are faithful and unfaithful. And that would be good for both the pensioners and the poor. Mr Tonin cited some incorrect information when he said that the rate of birth in Slovenia was below the average of the European Union. That's not true. On average, it is the European Union or perhaps even slightly more than 1.58. As far as this proposal is concerned, several of my predecessors have already found that it is actually a recycling of an old proposal from 2008 to 2012, and now here with a great deal of scale, it is presented by the proponents as a kind of genius solution that will reject the decline in fertility and improve the demographic picture. Here, of course, I cannot go beyond what has been found, but we are already repeating ourselves, the Court of Auditors, that this measure has led to inequality. Not only those who have only one child, but also those who have more children, there is a big difference between them. I personally have one child who is 9 years old, another who is 20 years old, and I probably wouldn't be receiving these benefits. I do have another 17-year-old, but I don't know if I'd come into all these combinations so I can enjoy these benefits. At the same time, as has already been said, there was a right to come to a place where you had a place in kindergarten, and there was even a general enrolment of children in kindergartens, even in cases where children did not really need it. However, the cities were occupied and those who needed it were, of course, waiting in line or having a real problem. You can see here that it was some sort of non-systemic measure. And by saying that there is still some inequality today, because we have an unequal situation across different municipalities, because there are different payments paid to kindergartens – yes, but now with this measure we would add another inequality to the already existing inequality, so to speak, would we have some kind of mole on fat? When it is evident to the Government that nothing is done – my conviction is that the best incentive for demographic growth is to create the conditions for young people to decide for their family as soon as possible. As the main measure, of course, unemployment is lower, and in the area of reducing youth unemployment, this government has indeed done much. 50 000 less unemployed young people in two years are some data, in addition to the increase in wages, which of course is linked to the rise in gross social product, is some measure which is systemic and which also depends on this level, and here this government has much to show. Of course, there are still a lot of reserves, as far as I'm concerned about providing some housing program or non-profit rentals for young families. Of course, more should be done here. Why do the proponents think that their proposal is so brilliant or very good, Mr Horvat turns out to be an expert in demography – it would be nice to see what they refer to in these statements, whether they are surveys of any institute. They show just one table and say how at the time they took this measure this had some results, and at the time of our government in two years, suddenly women stopped giving birth, as they had done before, because it is obvious that our government, which is here, is to blame. Such simplified interpretations are probably not justified, and if the New Slovenia gentlemen are so keen to refer to Umar, I could probably also read the report more accurately, and I will quote just one passage from this report by Umar: “In Slovenia, on average, about 1,000 fewer children were born again than on average 2008-2012, which can also be attributed to a faster reduction in the number of women of childbearing age when the births are postponed in later years. In 2014 for 6 000 500 women less than before. At the same time, the average age of the mother at birth continues to increase by about one month per year. Given the size of the generations at previous fertility rates and unchanged family policies, it could be concluded that the number of births will continue to decline in the coming years." So it is not about the impact of one such measure as the applicants point out, it is not about the influence of one government, but it is probably about the need to achieve a national family policy programme, which must be comprehensive, which must not be focused on the measure, I do not know, a free place for a child in kindergarten, but must include at least, if not even the Government, the competent Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and the same opportunities that are not here today, but it is always about social affairs, and the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Education are sitting here. That ministry, which should be the key institution of this family policy, is not what we have here today. More importantly, it is important to have a dialogue with local communities, with municipalities, this is said at national level. In this way, we should see what are the measures that will really contribute to some demographic growth or reverse image that we are witnessing today. This is important, it must be discussed, but I am sure that such proposals, some recycling of some cases that the Court of Auditors has found that they have not achieved their purpose, are not appropriate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u151	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and then we are going to the conclusion of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. A nice hello to you all! In the introduction, if I summarize part of the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law prepared by the applicant and cited, according to the RS Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, that it is necessary for the normal functioning of the country or all of its subsystems of 30 thousand births in Slovenia, we are currently not reaching the number of 20,000 and the trend is declining. These are extremely disturbing data, but I must remind myself of the fact that has taken place in Slovenia. Firstly, I still argue that this crisis, which has been artificially transferred to Slovenia, was not necessary at all, but when you tell people all the time that Slovenia is in crisis, when you take away their rights, when you take away their dignity by selling off state property, which is not at all state property, this property is not State because there is no such concept in the constitution at all, but it is private, common, private property of all citizens and citizens. [[…]] But look, when you're scaring them that Slovenia is in crisis, that we don't know how to run banks, that we don't know how to run our businesses, that we have to have foreign experts, which, after all, we ask ourselves why they don't use them in their home state where they come from, whether they run their banks or their businesses, it's actually a second-rate, third-rate cadre brought to us – why? To keep draining the country. And when you're draining the country, these conditions to provide better conditions for people's lives are worse. And 400 thousand people face poverty, flirting with poverty. And that's the problem. In fact, we need to take measures to put an end to poverty as soon as possible, and we also need to take measures to stop blinding ourselves and say that a bad bank is a good solution, that Slovenian State Holding is a good solution for our companies. How good is it if Cimos goes down? 2,000 people are at risk. How will the number of births in the future be planned in these families? Yeah, with a lot of concern. However, so many people are always responsible in Slovenia that if they feel that the future is not in order, of course they will then be so much more reserved up to the number of births. So a lot of things need to be changed, but, honourable proponents, if I ask you how you see the solution to this neoliberal policy, you will always say, yes, everything that is – I repeat, not stately, property, private property of people, is in common ownership of what we have from Luke Koper to insurance companies, to banks – you will say, let's sell it and that it is a solution. Yeah, and that's what they want. Let's get these people out of here. But that takes away their dignity. So let's stop this, give people their dignity back.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u153	There's been a lot of other things this time, too, but okay. If we've listened to this page before, we have to listen to this one, obviously. A very broad interpretation of what matters are all about is. Once she went to state property, the second time she went to, almost out of hate and... [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, we could go so wide on any subject, but then we will never direct the debate and solve any problems. But, okay. I have not given one or the other a reminder, and I do not want to lead this way today. I therefore give the floor to the latter before we move on to the general part of the debate, where you will receive the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. As the last one, I give my word to Mr. Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you, President, for your word. The same mantra as always when the opposition proposes the law. Non-systemic law and financial issues. Today we have heard that the government will again prepare a systemic solution in the Kindergarten Act, I am sure that this law will make the government public three months before the elections, so obviously this autumn, according to the latest information. And it is those who today oppose this law that you will speak of how this is the best measure. The fact is that today we have proved to be obvious about the concepts of Slovenia and family policy on two shores. On one opposition, on the other coalition. And today it was clear to whom Slovenia and family policy are for, and who is looking for excuses from five veins, that it does not have to support 10 million valuable laws for Slovenian families, and 20 million for various client projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u155	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota. He doesn't want to. Ms Iva Dimic, representative of the proposer, then, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Thank you all for a good debate. The bill is well - intentioned and would mean a lot to some families, children. Before I fully conclude, I would just like to react in a variety of ways to support or not support sales and not know what else. I would add here that in New Slovenia we want, and also our economic programme is such that it is necessary for companies to work fairly and people to be paid honestly. That anyone who works deserves to be paid. But the question is, how is work done and how people are exploited? As far as I'm concerned, I've used some valuable populism regarding January 2nd. Let me say that our first proposal was to reduce VAT from 22% to 20% and from 9 1/2 to 8, but because it was a holiday year, we also proposed a holiday. And no matter what, I really thank you, colleagues and colleagues for today's debate. I am little surprised by some of the negative reactions of some SMC Members that they have responded in some way. However, I invite you all once again, let us step together, support our families, make concrete and good moves, enable parents to better coordinate their professional and family lives, protect young people, give them a chance to make a better decision about life, and I believe that we will all be happy in the end. Let us make it easier for them to reconcile family and professional life and to burden families with these financial burdens. Thank you. And I'm asking for your support. In the coming days, of course, we can do better together.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u157	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Nobody. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, again. In this part, I would like to draw attention to another concrete measure which would certainly affect the fact that the formation of a family and, as a result, to the extent possible, to promote or allow children to decide. It is certainly necessary to amend legislation that allows you to lose an apartment, which is essential for you to form a family, because of the fact that you owe EUR 400 and the court decides that you are being robbed of a flat because of this debt. This is the law currently in force in Slovenia. And what needs to be changed is certainly a change in the exact way that it takes and allows the separation of a family that is currently homeless. But that exists in our legal order. How can you lose your apartment because you owe 400 euros? Would it not be a significantly more normal solution for those 400 euros to enter into debt on this property and continue to live in it? Or yes, for example, even if you have a huge debt that sells more value to the house, then you will be able to afford that minimum apartment you need — for one person, so much for two, so much for three. You can't stay on the road. There are a lot of things that need to be arranged to enable people to create something and create their own apartment, to also keep it at a time when, say, they lose their jobs when they're in extremely difficult material situations. However, they must not lose the basic dignity afforded them the right to housing. And that's what's written in the constitution. One of the first such measures to be taken in Slovenia is to protect the property of people and also to enable them because of such difficult situations in which they are to preserve their homes. And as a result, of course, this will affect people’s confidence in the country and also the fact that we really create conditions for them to form their own family. And there will be more children and we will get closer to that number of births, which then allows not only kindergartens to function normally, but also, of course, countries and all subsystems as described. In fact, the effort to be made must be invested in everything, in all the areas that are throbbing us. Gardens are only one of those areas, but what I have just mentioned is one of the important elements currently being implemented in Slovenia and is extremely harmful to the formulation of a successful family policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u159	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you, Vice President, for your word! I must admit that I did not expect such a fiery debate on this bill. Otherwise, I knew that, for the most part, opposition from coalition Members would come from the government's opinion on this law, but some things have made me very uncomfortable, I must say. They were even on the verge of some kind of, I'll say, very aggressive debate. In discussing family, family values, children, I must say that I did not expect such a debate. Why did this marriage even come? The proposer put it right. Miro Cerar has been boasting for the past six months about how he saved the country from all that everyone has done before, and now we are doing almost as well as in those countries where honey and milk flow. And after the same Prime Minister, or the same government, divides the candy left even more to the right, a little less to the right, and shares them in the form of various recapitalisations, probably illegal state aid to various companies, various privileged groups or the most paid privileged groups in the public sector, and so on, the same government and coalition are surprised if the opposition comes with a bill that only follows this policy. And it follows her on one of the most important segments in our country, and these are the family and the children. I understand that if we were to say that as the only argument, yes, it is difficult for us to apply this law on 1 June 2017. We could say, let's make a deal, but let's do it in another reading of the word 1. 1. 2018, there will be at least one or probably two budget rebalancings in between and probably all others would be satisfied. But today we have heard about how the birth of Slovenian children is almost a nationalism and how the problem of finance is. Ask the mayor. At a time when we have taken positive measures for children in the 2004-2008 mandate, this is also evidenced by this [[Show list]] , and no, these were not ineffective measures, as Mr Tabakovic said, because then the curve would be so down that it would probably be in the coming years after the end of this government's mandate, but this Kindergarten Act was one of those positive measures that we took at the time. And now that the President of the Republic, who is the main culprit for going into crisis at all, writes that after the economic crisis has come, there is an opportunity for us to start again, the opposition comes with a proposal for a law, and we hear that there is no systemic solution, no finance, and finally that the opposition is populist. And this is said by the same coalition, which first rejects January 2nd, because it is proposed by one of the opposition parties, and then boasts for six months that this is the most positive measure that this government has taken. And I am sure, and once again, I repeat, that it is likely that sooner or later the Education Act will come to the National Assembly and that the same provisions of the articles will be written in this law and that the same Members of the SMC, Desus and SD will be speaking, that is a systemic solution, we have saved the country, preschool education and probably something else. In short, no, we're not going to demagogy, you're going into hypocrisy. And that's sad. And then people expect us to come along with some solutions — but how? When the opposition proposes such a beautiful marriage, it is this coalition that declares itself oh and, in general, against. Dearly beloved, when will the time come in this National Assembly for the coalition to take a half-step closer to the opposition and you will not measure us against the populists, with those who are preparing non-systemic and financially unsustainable measures, when you are the very ones who are preparing populist measures, financially unsustainable and completely non-systematic? Truly, distinguished representatives of the Government of Mir Cerar, take your leave before the early elections and consider what nonsense you have done in this mandate, and then you will see that you will prepare for yourselves such laws as the New Slovenia Group has prepared today, and you will be happy to support them. But then this sketch will unfortunately go into a negative trend. Not just because you won't support this marriage, but because you're doing stupid things.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u161	Here you go, Joseph Horvath. You have the last word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. For almost three and a half hours, we are discussing the law, the proposal of the New Slovenia Act, the issue which is clearly an acute issue and the necessary debates and even more necessary solutions, concrete solutions. I also sincerely thank you all who were here in the hall, which you presented to the Slovenian public and to all of us your contributions, your views. It is true that some thing has touched me and I very hard to accept, but we are a democratic society, we have freedom of speech and so on. That it's some sort of backward, conservative approach, even nationalist, look, that's a little too much. That's a little much. Well, if anyone tells me I'm a conservative, I thank him very much for preserving what's precious to us, what's noble. We preserve, defend those values that are close to our heart. Does anyone can preserve the rotten cucumbers? Nobody. Just healthy and super healthy. I'm happy, I don't have to wait for 2050 and your vision. I am happy that in 1991 we made a Slovenian country. I am happy that the then politicians understood the breadth and wrote in the constitution that we live in co-existence, not only with Slovenia and Slovenia, but also with the indigenous Hungarian national community living together with us, that we live together with the indigenous Italian national community, that we also have Roma in Slovenia, for the first time in 2004-2008 we have brought into light and passed the law on the Roma community. Interesting! Almost the right government! You'd expect a left-wing government to do that. At that time, we actually brought a solution, and we accepted it, with regard to the same-sex partnership community, after many years of left-wing governments and so on. Is the problem now 10 million for this year and 21.5 million for each of the following years? Then we really do some problems for ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, first of all, look, we haven't said one word here, let alone voted on the 350 million who left the budget as if they had blown. 350 million. The recapitalisation of the Slovenian state holding company, representatives of trade unions came in and said, they put out an account, one for 50 million, the other for 56 million. It was necessary, according to you, to recapitalize the DUTB and so on. No one has asked us Members anything about this. At times, however, we discussed some of the budget amendments for hours and hours when maybe 10,000 euros were involved. So please don't talk about it. But the fact is that what saddens me is that some people just can't stay away from socialism. Socialism has failed. Margaret Thatcher said socialism is only as good as it is until you run out of other people's money. And yes, we're not for sale, once again and for a hundred years, we're for privatisation. This is a process of finding more responsible owners. More privatisation, less corruption. More privatisation, less debate here in this Chamber on staffing and tension mainly within the coalition. And I conclude with the thoughts of a very clever gentleman, Mr Aloys Rebula. As he wrote in 1996 and presented in his speech at the Slovenian cultural festival, I quote: “There is only one fear in place: we will not eat or drink, and what we will dress with, because we are more pragmatic than the dream nation, but will not fear the gift of new lives in our homes.” End of quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much to all the discussers. I also conclude the debate with this. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to inform you that there has been a change in the agenda or agenda. The order will be next. We will vote first on the 18th, then on the 10th, at the 11th, 9th and 13th agenda. With this, I interrupt this agenda item and the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue in half an hour, which is fifteen to six, so to speak, 17.45. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u164	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we come to the voting process, I would like to inform you again that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 18, 10, 11, 9 and 13 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 18th item on the agenda, this is on the Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are going through a motion by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, is 15. 3. 2017 proposed to the National Assembly that the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia be elected Dr. Matei Access, Dr. Rajko Knez, ddr. Klemna Jaklič and Dr. Marijan Pavčnik. I give the floor to Mrs Natasa Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u165	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The decision on four new judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the highest judicial authority for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the guardian of constitutionality and legality is undoubtedly one of the most important decisions. The President of the Republic therefore led the process of proposing candidates for these places with all due diligence and discretion. Thus, just one year ago, at the working meeting of the former Constitutional Judges, he asked for an opinion on the best way to manage the procedures and the selection criteria, so that the National Assembly would have the opportunity to truly elect the best candidates and candidates. Following the successful conduct of the first proceedings and the election of a new judge and a judge of the Constitutional Court in last July, the current proceedings were opened by the publication of an invitation to tender for the four seats of Constitutional Judges whose term expires on 26 March and 24 April this year. It is only the fact that in less than one year the mandate of six of the nine judges and the judges of the Constitutional Court shows that the design of the nominations has to be given due attention and sufficient time, both for a deliberate assessment and for coordination with the parliamentary groups, if the candidates are to meet the high professional criteria on the one hand and will, of course, be elected in the State Assembly. Therefore, this procedure took a somewhat longer period of understanding than usual in other cases. However, coordination did not differ in any way from that of the President of the Republic in other proceedings. Among other things, a total of three rounds of consultations were held with all the leaders of the groups of Members and Members of the nationalities. The President of the Republic informed all the parliamentary groups of the progress of the coordination process and his thoughts and asked them for their opinions and views. In view of the intensity of this consultation, on behalf of the President of the Republic, I thank all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the two members of the nationalities for their constructive cooperation. The President of the Republic is pleased to note that you have before you the proposal of four candidates for whom it is possible, on the basis of their professional competences and experience in the various fields of the legal profession and science, to conclude that if elected, they will carry out this important work and mission as top experts of domestic and international law independently, independently and in accordance with the highest professional requirements. At the same time, we can conclude that all four candidates have sufficient support for Members and Members of Parliament for election. With more detailed views, opinions and additional explanations from each of the four proposed candidates, the public was able to take a direct look at the public presentations made by the candidates in the past days in the Office of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic to the National Council of Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia proposes: a special professor, Dr. Matei Access, a university-graduate lawyer, a doctor of legal science, an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Ljubljana in the field of European Law; a regular professor, Dr. Rajk Knez, a university-graduate lawyer, a doctor of legal science, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law in Maribor in the field of European law, civil law and certain areas of administrative law; d.d. Klemna Jaklič, a university-graduate lawyer, a doctorate in legal science with two PhDs in constitutional law, a lecturer and a researcher in constitutional law at Harvard University; and an academic professor, Dr. Marijan Pavčnik, a university-graduate lawyer, a doctor of legal science, a regular professor of philosophy and theory of law at the Ljubljana Faculty of Law and a regular member of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. The President of the Republic, on the basis of the said National Assembly, proposes that you elect the candidates to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u166	The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The mandate-election committee is at its 32nd emergency session. 3. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposals for election to be adopted by the National Assembly 15. 3. 2017 submitted by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the first paragraph of Article 163 provides that the Constitutional Court shall be composed of nine judges elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic in the manner laid down by law and in the second paragraph of that Article to elect judges from legal experts. The Constitutional Court Act in Article 9 provides that a national of the Republic of Slovenia, who is a legal expert and who is at least 40 years of age, may be elected as Judge or Judge of the Constitutional Court. The procedure at the end of the term of office of the Constitutional Court Judge and the selection of candidates and the election of a new judge of the Constitutional Court shall be governed by the Constitutional Court Act in Articles 11, 12, 13 and 14. President of the Constitutional Court, Mag. Miroslav Mozetič is in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitutional Court Act 30. 8. notify the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Republic of the expiry of the terms of office of the four Judges of the Constitutional Court. It follows from the proposals made by the President of the Republic of Slovenia that the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, at the request of four judges of the Constitutional Court, received 23 nominations within the time limit, of which two candidates later withdrew their nominations in their consent. The President of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that we elect Dr. Matei Access, ddr. Klemna Jaklič and Dr. Marijan Pavčnik as well as a judge whose term expires on 24. 4, Dr. Rajko the Prince. Ms Nataša Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, took part in the meeting of the Commission, which further explained the proposals. She presented the professional criteria that the President of the Republic had taken into account in the decision and pointed out that, in the light of the repeated consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we can reasonably conclude that candidates have the necessary support for appointment. In the debate, the representatives of the United Left Group expressed disagreement with the selection procedure and for the consideration of proposals at the urgent meeting only the day after the adoption of the proposals to the National Assembly. They therefore proposed that the hearing be postponed for at least a period of time for the President of the Republic to make public presentations on the candidates he had announced in the coming days. In the discussion of the other members of the Commission, it was pointed out that all proposed candidates were top legal experts with outstanding careers and achievements. The Commission adopted the following conclusions. “The mandate-election commission took note of a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposing to the President of the Republic of Slovenia that, as a judge of the Constitutional Court instead of a judge whose term expires on 26 March 2017, Dr Matei Access and the National Assembly propose to elect the candidate as a judge of the Constitutional Court.” “The mandate-election commission took note of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, with which Dr Rajk Knez and the National Assembly propose to elect the candidate as a judge of the Constitutional Court, as opposed to a judge on 24 April 2017.” “The mandate-election commission took note of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, with which ddr. Klemna Jaklič and the National Assembly propose to elect the candidate as Judge of the Constitutional Court.” “The mandate-election commission took note of a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposing to the Constitutional Court, instead of a judge whose term of office expires on 26 March 2017, that Dr. Marijan Pavčnik and the National Assembly propose to elect the candidate as a judge of the Constitutional Court.”
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u168	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! As early as July 2016 in the United Left, when we confirmed the first two of the six new constitutional judges to be replaced in this mandate, we noted that the exclusive objective of those involved in this process is to seek compromise. If I express myself with the words of Matevža Krivica, a rotten compromise. But if it was then to seek some balance as the only criterion for broad support for candidates, it is something completely different today, something more harmful and something even more unacceptable in the first place. It is a simple and exclusive business between Janez Janša and his SDS on the one hand and Mir Cerar on the other and his SMC on the other, and the mediation between the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. Somehow, according to the principle, the Fiscal Council thinks that I am the Constitutional Court, and unfortunately, there is no debate on the competences of candidates, even less debate on their personal suitability. It is only important that the SMC-SDS coalition has sufficient votes and that the vote on the Fiscal Council and on the Constitutional Judges take place at this meeting. In terms of trade, we have heard several times from representatives of the coalition. At the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, this was clearly stated, without shame or bad news. The only argument for the proposed candidates and in some way the response to the allegations of at least one of them being inappropriate was to give him a chance. The human resources policy of this government has been scandalous since the beginning of the mandate, to say the least. However, for the human resources policy of this new coalition between SMC and SDS it is already difficult to find a suitable term or at least one suitable for this forum. As the party to modern principles in an even more obvious coalition with the SDS, as it all appears, has forgotten what we are talking about, let me remind you and everyone who is currently following this meeting again of what we are talking about. We are talking about the highest authority of the judiciary in this country, an institution that is the last defender of constitutional rights and freedoms, which cannot be forgotten, is increasingly being beaten. We're talking about an institution whose primary weapon is authority. As the constitutionalist Dr Teršek said, the Constitutional Court can guarantee this authority only by presenting it with the best legal experts in the country, such as, I quote, “reason their suitability with past legal and legal work, which demonstrate theoretically constitutional and philosophical constitutional conviction, credibility, autonomy, principle, excellence and sovereignty.” At least one of these candidates can be said to be everything before that. It's Mr. Jaklitch. Not because his political preference is perfectly clear. On the contrary. Each candidate must have a clear position on important topics and issues. But these views must be demonstrated through past legal work, not through protests before the Supreme Court and the creation of theories on political structures against the great leader. This is an entirely inappropriate candidate for rights and freedoms, who cares only in cases where they refer to Janez Janša, who only sees a conspiracy against the champion of the opposition and the dark plans of forces of the continuity of all possible uncles in the background, but also comes along. There's no dilemma here. The candidate is totally inappropriate for a constitutional judge. Regardless of the content of the application, its professional suitability is not as high as it is trying to show some enlarged pyar. If we delete from the list of past publications and parts all the opinions of the Venice Commission, which represent about 80% of its literature, and the works relating to the protection of Mr Janša, that is, the battle remains few. Relevant posts are less than inappropriate and inappropriate comments on his twitter profile. All of these and the responses to his previous nomination as Judge of the European Court of Human Rights, and in particular the outcome of the vote on candidates, clearly indicate that without the connected trade between Cerar and Janša and without the simultaneous vote on the Fiscal Council, he would probably not be on the list at all. It's ethics and morale of these coalitions. This is an even stronger commitment between SDS and SMC and this is the real face of this new, modern policy. When it comes to human resources trade, everything is allowed. In the United Left we reject such practices, such rotten compromises. In the end, let me just remind you that, just as the Constitutional Judges are autonomous in their actions, we are also Members. It's time you changed your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u170	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u171	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have an important decision ahead of us, according to the power vested in the Constitutional Court, and everything depends on the future of the legal state of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court merely builds its authority and reputation, which is to be composed of representatives of judges, representatives of those who work in colleges and those who work in the legal profession and have proven themselves in their careers. We have four representatives in front of us from just one group, these are faculty employees. Otherwise, I cannot say because the terms used in the media and in the debates are completely wrong. Those who work at the university are measured by their career in the references made publicly available at the Sicris and Cobiss bases. And there is a ranking of lawyers in Slovenia, everyone can see where these candidates belong and whether they are suitable and how much better they are. As another criterion, we know that we have in Slovenia the ZUJF by which people have to retire. We also have the Law on Judicial Service, which limits the age of judges when they have to end their careers. And if we look at it, the Constitutional Judge is the crown of the legal profession, not the beginning. The proposed candidates must have a career and meet all the other conditions. Of course, we will again witness creative explanations and excuses not to mention that there will be a conflict of interest. In view of all of this, the constitutional function, the function of the Constitutional Judge, is too important for political purchases to take place. And in the light of the criteria I have set out, we will vote in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in accordance with the Constitution and our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u172	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u173	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! The Constitution is the highest general act by which the State essentially lays down general principles and the form of its political and social arrangements. The Slovenian Constitution can be considered as a written, codified and rigid constitution. We proposed to the National Assembly last week at the Commission for the election of Prof. Dr. Matei Access, ddr. Klemna Jakliča, Prof. Rajko Knez and Professor Marjan Pavčnik's Academy. Especially by electing judges, because we thought it was people whose life principle was that they were committed to the law. Their life story is that their profession, their hobby, is basically their way of life. Unfortunately, we have witnessed as many times the humiliation of certain individuals, who have demonstrated their superior superiority throughout their lives, all their efforts not only in Slovenia, even abroad, in front of foreign people, without their uncles from behind, proving their own personal integrity, proving their sense of justice and their sense of legal science as a whole. In the SDS we are convinced that the candidates have strong, clear and coherent beliefs about what is right and that they have the courage and the courage to enforce it, with which they are willing to break through a number of skeletons and institutionally closed mental collectiveism of the regular judicial system in the Republic of Slovenia. It's not about yours and ours, my respectable colleagues, it's about meritocratic principles. It's a consensus, not a political trade. It's a matter of, we could say, a slight shift from transition puberty to putting our best people in the highest positions in the country. It is a message that hard work and hard work are observed in all areas and that it is rewarded. It is a message from Slovenia that the people, especially those of Klemni Jakliči, who are still abroad, at foreign universities, are in foreign multinational companies that have come to the highest positions abroad, that suitable jobs also await them for their work, proof and hard work in the Republic of Slovenia. This is about Slovenia becoming not only a country, but a country for all Slovenians. It's also about this message. We are convinced that people such as Dr. Matthew Accesso, Prof. Dr. Rajko Knez, Professor of the Academy Dr. Marjan Pavčnik and ddr. Klemen Jaklič, who has recommendations as the first Slovenians of the best law university in the world, which includes the University of Harvard and the University of Oxford and the four highest professors and the highest legal personality in England and America, therefore recommended these two largest institutions. I have before me a copy of this recommendation. This is a person who is first in his life – so, according to the United Left, the people who have let Klemna Jaklič through, we can say, through the first exam at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, those who have awarded him a Master's degree in science at Harvard University are wrong, those who have given him a Ph.D. at Oxford University, and those who have given him a Ph.D. at Harvard University are wrong, those who have given him a special award for a Harvard doctorate are wrong, the people who were wrong in 2013 when he published an Oxford University Press publication, a resounding scientific monograph entitled Constitutional pluralism in the European Union, which has not been the only publication of Slovenian lawyers at this leading world university, and they have therefore given him a special award and this book is today in 300 world libraries, all of which have been wrong. They were wrong about his personal integrity, his mental processes, their abilities and they were wrong about his, that is, ours and other meritocratic principles. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There are no more divisions in ours and yours; today we can show a new path, as I said at the beginning, that when we gather the moderate middle people in this, even in the National Assembly, we can start another policy. Another policy, which will give a better state, improves the rule of law and, above all, improves the welfare of all Slovenians and Slovenes. We will therefore be very pleased to support all four candidates in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u174	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! In the case of the Constitutional Court, which we await in this Chamber today, we are dealing with the related trade for the Fiscal Council, which we welcomed yesterday in this same hall. I will not say that it is problematic that the coalition is the largest government party for it, or that the President of the Government, Miro Cerar, has spoken to the opposition in order to provide the necessary votes for the Fiscal Council. But the problem is that in this process he went completely past any other, such as the pragmatic criteria for putting his people on the fiscal world here and now. For example, the Constitutional Court is one of the highest authorities in this country, one of the most powerful, and there are not people who are simply called because of political bargaining. Adults must also be professional criteria, but Janez Janša and Miro Cerar did with the Constitutional Court and the Fiscal Council what farmers do with potatoes when they take them from the field to the cellar, a little bit to the other side, and not even interested in the fact that potatoes are rotten in that jacket. The name of this corruption in the case of the Constitutional Court is ddr. Klemen Jaklich. However, a man with no serious academic references has a very serious list of political activism in defense of the protection and work of the character Janez Janša. He would defend and protect human rights when it comes to the first person of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but when it comes to human rights, such as refugees, we could also hear him yesterday, what he said, in fact, is that refugees do not have human rights. They are somehow threatening our democracy, even though the right to asylum is a fundamental democratic freedom. This is the political, professional and activism range of the dual doctor Klemen Jaklič. And if I conclude with the indications that many instances and individuals who have turned on the green light for advancement on his career have been deeply wronged in my opinion today, if they are watching this meeting, they are sneezing their heads in front of their TV and regret their past decisions, such as this national assembly, this society and this country regret the consequences of their decision if double Dr. Klemen Jaklič becomes a constitutional judge. We're all gonna get a lot of headaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u176	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you. There's only one word for the last month's staff kitchen, that's impolite. What's left of the pre-election slogans on ethics, morality, the most legal state? What's left? Nothing. Nothing. As low as you've released the scale in this term, it hasn't been there yet. And that's all that's left of your pre-election code of ethics, morality, the rule of law. It doesn't matter what you know anymore. It's important that you're ours. And by the way you are in the Fiscal Council, you have evaluated the function of the Fiscal Council and the function of the Constitutional Court in constitutional judges. The function of the Constitutional Judge is supposed to be the highest legal function in our country, the function of the Fiscal Council is new, but also the most important in the exercise of control over public financial policy – and you are all with the human resources kitchen, negotiation. That's too bad. In the end, let me read it, it was also published in public, so I'll allow myself to do so, a statement from one of the candidates, and I'll tell you who. “I am sorry that I took part in a procedure which I believe was imprudent and unfair to registered candidates. In cooperation, I have made an impression on the legitimacy of something which I do not think was carried out in a manner worthy of the function of the Constitutional Judge.” Dr. Ange Erbežnik, candidate for Constitutional Judge in answer to Borut Pahor. And I think that says everything about you and your way of working.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u178	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Disgusting, distasteful, shameful are the words that repeat themselves all the time in the appointment of constitutional judges. And I'm not going to talk about Klemen Jaklic on my own right now, because he is who he is. He's just a figure on your chessboard. But let me read you a government coalition treaty that says that we need to act in the direction of greater and more appropriate judicial response to a negative campaign against the judiciary in the sense of trying to evaluate it. The respect of the institutions of the rule of law and the rule of law must lead to consistent respect for the fundamental legal principle that, in the event of the simultaneous existence of a possibility of exceptional remedies, a natural and legal person is obliged to respect. Decisions of the courts shall not be subject to political attacks or manipulation. How do you do that? By placing the highest criticism of court decisions and even elections on the most responsible positions in the country. In fact, Klemen Jaklič tweeted: if the Constitutional Court does not protect fundamental democratic rights, there is no longer any reason to respect decisions in the future. Well, once again, because it's true: Beethoven wakes up, otherwise this country doesn't need you. Look, I'm not a legal expert and I'm not going to go into the details, but already in 2013 in Del there was the controversy of Matevž Krivec with the above-mentioned ddr. Jaklič, who says that according to his words Klemen Jaklič has created a reputation through the most rigorous scientific examinations of the scientific authority of the world summit itself, but doubts that his reputation can be maintained by the level of his polarization, especially with deep non-professional assertions, which stubbornly and without any explanation repeats in a double controversy with Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs, Primujem Gorkič and first with Matevz Krivice. In short, he states: “Jaklič’s deception of laity reading with false truths or half truths that are severe.” It goes on to say: “If Harvard has a ddr. A strong lecture, law and ethics, an ethical committee or something similar to the assessment of the ethically controversial behaviour of Harvard lecturers, would be appropriate to submit to the opinion here described by Jaklič. He may be willing to do it himself properly and transparently, ddr. Is it hard alone, or should someone else do it? In short, including legal experts, constitutional lawyers are politicizing its expertise. In any case, the US legal system and the Central European system are quite different. This is where the experts write about it. I won't explain it to you. Read it. In 2005, he advocated an amendment to the RTV Act by SDS Member Branko Grims. At that time, Dr Wolfgang Hoffmann-Riem, a German constitutional judge, attributed a statement on the danger of civil society appointment of representatives to the system, such as public broadcasting. Hoffmann-Riem soon told me he didn't remember ever saying anything like that. However, Jaklič’s denial of dementia was such that Krivic called it unscrupulous manipulation of Dr Hoffmann-Riem’s opinions and even his own views. The following year, Jaklič was appointed to the RTV Supervisory Board on a proposal from the SDS. Being a constitutional judge is the highest legal function in the country. How can citizens trust institutions that can be made through such cows trading between Cerar and Janša. The United Left is convinced that constitutional judges must have clear views and defend without party tendencies. Finally, six out of nine Constitutional Judges will be appointed in this mandate. And this time there are no women among the four candidates proposed. Of the six new constitutional judges, there will be only one woman. And no one will convince me that this is due to the lack of competent female candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u180	The word is Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you very much, President. How the protection of constitutionally protected rights understands ddr. Klemen Jaklič, proved at the public presentation of the candidature for a constitutional judge on the issue of refugees and migration, quote: "My position is quite clear. This is a classic issue of the collision of two rights, the rights of migrants and the question of the existence of democracy. My general approach is that both must be taken into account. The Constitutional Court and the European Court of Strasbourg and Luxembourg can stop this train, depending on their vision and whether they have enough votes.” End of quote. Here is a statement for me, comparing “rights, constitutional rights and democracy” and “rights of migrants” is absolutely unworthy of a lawyer. Not to say anything else. Such a statement means even this, called new racism, promotion, setting up a group as a danger to democracy, like some group of people who steal, like some group of people, no, classic expressions of racism. [[…]] And a man who, of course, will stop a train in the Constitutional Court, I don't know which train, German-French or maybe Koper-Friendly, but it's not important at all, a migrant train, I probably don't see in it. A man who claims that the issue of refugees, the rights of refugees, the threat to democracy is absolutely impossible for me and must not be a member of any Constitutional Court. If we think about who is dangerous to democracy in Slovenia and in other countries – those who do not respect the Constitution, who do not respect the internationally signed conventions on refugees, those who do not respect the conclusions and opinions of the Council of Europe, those who do not respect the Commissioner for Human Rights, whom we will accept with all the pumps tomorrow and tell him how wonderfully we care for minorities and human rights, we will regret it, I hope not, we have chosen a man who sees refugees as a threat to democracy in the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry. I can't eat this. And what's interesting is that no one, exactly, from the coalition, as we see here written, comes forward and tells people what they're proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u182	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, chairman! Mrs Natasa Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, made clear what this function also means, which also implies what kind of people would be needed in this function. With all that has been said so far, one forgets the person who basically blamed all of this – the President of the Republic of Slovenia. He didn't do his homework. He's mature to give up. Pika. I'll keep going. Personal integrity, said Mr Breznik, with rich international experiences. I can't define myself for the professional bibliography of the two doctors mentioned here. I looked at her. Hold what Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec said, and I'll come back to him later to give a lay-down, of course I should read all this. But it's basically about personal integrity. After all, it is also about the personal integrity of this National Assembly, when Matthew at the MVK warned that there are no ladies among the proposed, you cut yourself. What does that actually say about us? And I would be the happiest person to have sex, not biologically or socially, and not culturally, no longer be the subject of this, I would be even more pleased to see that the ministry's mission of "and equal opportunities" is exhausted, but as one of the few Members in this reference, which I am not a lawyer, and I read what they decide in the next house, I can see that in these compositions and previous compositions the ladies look a little differently across the window from Beethoven, and that this is also known in separate opinions, and in fastening and rejecting. And that's why we'd need them. We would also need what I have said many times, 8 constitutional judges and judges — why, I will not explain because we are so intelligent. We could follow German practice here if we have already copied half the legal order. And I'm going to end up like this, so you'll understand. Matthew has a doctorate. Of all of us, he has shown the greatest talent for legal content, and we send him to these difficult battles in a relatively small group of Members. Since he lives in a contact area, he also speaks the most and best foreign languages. I could do a Ph.D. at Harvard and Sorbonne and La Sapienza and two of the right ones from the other. I could say that I would have created more and better publications, because I've met him so much in these three, four years. But if the United Left proposed it and it would have written it on an Internet or elsewhere before that, "Now Luka Moon is the ultimate person of Slovenian history, who laughs at it, our children and children will laugh at it someday." And then if Matthew added, "As for the right one, I have no doubt that at the price of the Moon's Head, the right-wing man will shoot his own brother, why not abuse some abstract idea...", I would vote against him. Therefore, it is personal integrity and for Mr Pahor, who disgraces the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. Good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u184	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u185	Thank you, President! A lot of things went wrong with this story. The first thing is the procedure. The fact is, since the election of the Constitutional Judges, and we all know that this procedure has lasted for a long time, that the candidates have, in fact, repeatedly sought and confirmed, then strangely, what has happened since then, or this establishment, that this thing has somehow begun to be brought into some parallel with the Fiscal Council. And when we noticed that, we also warned – I think that this has also been publicly exposed to the President of the Republic several times – because it is clear what should be the first thing besides what Franz said earlier, that is to say, to find the right candidates, but that this process is also being conducted properly. The first requirement should be that the Fiscal Council and the Constitutional Judges do not come to the same meeting of the National Assembly. Then we saw that candidates for constitutional judges with sufficient support were quickly found. They arrived at the National Assembly as soon as the President of the Republic somehow completed this election. The following day the Commission was convened and within a few days the story was closed. These are clear indications, and not just that, the whole story that says something stinks in here, if I say so simply. It's a matter of procedure. And the other thing is a person. This is not a question of attacking someone in person now, that it is an ad homine attack, but it is in fact an abstract function that this man will play. It's a man who'll become a Constitutional Judge if he gets 46 or more votes. Here, once again, I stress, and I think we need to make this clear, whether this person is a member of a party or has political beliefs, on the contrary, such a person must have political beliefs, must have legal beliefs, ideological beliefs. But Mr. Jaklitch isn't. It's about, simply put, almost fanatical. It's about someone who's first and foremost, that's what's crucial, a political activist and only second-class lawyer. This is what the Supreme Court has said about the scandal and the collapse of Slovenia's judiciary, the fact that on Twitter virtually all anger over the judiciary and the legislative branch of power and everything else that comes to pass. This is a problem because such a person simply cannot fulfill what is in some way required for a constitutional judge. This is what Dr. Teršek is talking about – that, of course, he has all the legal knowledge necessary to manage this function, but that, of course, he also has his own personal moral authority, which gives him the starting position to decide the most important things in this country, and that is the constitution, and the execution of what is enshrined in the Constitution. For all this, Mr Jaklič is not fit for this function. That is why we have, I think, reasonable doubts that he will not perform this function autonomously and independently. Third thing, I think we need to stress that. Candidates – and in the position of the MVK from different debates – will not be disputed by this – candidates for constitutional judges are not given. The fact that four or more people come to the National Assembly is not the kind of tribute that the National Assembly must accept. The National Assembly has a responsibility to appoint these candidates or not. Therefore, do not pretend that it is something that is now before us, and it is in some way that we are voting on these candidates, something that we must do for the sake of the state, the preservation of the Constitution or anything. No, the state-run and defence of the Constitution is to give those places the most responsible position in the judicial system in Slovenia the candidates who are responsible for it. Finally, a tweet about the elections has already been mentioned. We will appoint a man who practically says that this call is now illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u186	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. In his position, Franzi Beznik said or tried to show what we are talking about in the United Left today as if it were ours and yours. I would like to stress once again that this is not about ours and yours at all and it is not about political definitions, it is about two essential things. The first is that the President of the State, acting as Head of State, is obliged to propose candidates for constitutional judges, who he believes are the best in his profession, to have the highest authority, which will be copied and used in the Constitutional Court and to read the Constitution, who are independent, respected, who enjoy the confidence of the public and who have proved to be such by their past legal action. The problem is that trade between the biggest government party and the biggest opposition party at Borut Pahor's wedding has been given proposals by candidates, which are not or most of all, and therefore we are taking the most action against it, we have thrown one out. And here I repeat, it is not a political definition, nor political orientation or political activism. Each party has political activists. Every human being, every reasonable person, however, must be interested in political matters and must be determined to make important points. But it is about where this position can be expressed, and where is the limit when someone crosses the border of a tasty one, not just a tasty one when it crosses the border acceptable to functions such as the function in the Constitutional Court. My friend Duck read this tweet earlier, which I'm going to repeat without changing my name. »Now Janez Janša is the ultimate person of Slovenian history. Whoever laughs at this will one day laugh at our children and our children's children." The man who writes such a tweet, for the first time, is obviously not able to restrain himself, secondly, obviously not only politically defined but literally believes in one savior in the form of another living politician. Regardless of what name would appear here instead of Janez Janša, because of me it may be Luka Mesec or Franz Jurša or Jože Tanko, I do not care, I would vote against such a man because a man who cultivates such faith to one other living political personality cannot be trusted to defend the principle of constitutionality and to strengthen the authority of the Constitutional Court. Such a person is not independent; such a person is simply not personally fit for this function. He can do a lawyer's job in the SDS, he can write laws, he can do a lot of things, but he can't be a constitutional judge. And that's what we're talking about today. I hope I have made myself clear why we will vote against Klemna Jaklič's candidacy as a member of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u188	We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. Does the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia also wish to speak? Then you have the floor, Mrs. Natasha Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Allow only a few brief notes. I would also like to reiterate, on the basis of everything that has been said and discussed, that the President is firmly behind his position, which I have also presented in the introduction, that we can rightly conclude for all four candidates that, on the basis of the work and experience so far in the various fields of the legal profession and science in case of election, they will carry out this work as top experts in domestic and international law, independently, independently and in accordance with the highest professional requirements. Certainly none of the four candidates can be claimed to have no relevant academic references, on the contrary. Appropriate, more than appropriate academic references shall be made by all four candidates, which can be ascertained from all the documentation received by the parliamentary groups at the time of the submission of the nominations. In the interests of transparency, I should point out that it is the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor who has introduced a novelty in the candidate procedures, which has proved to be an essential advantage in the transparency of procedures – all candidates for all public public functions are presented to the public before their election in the National Assembly, so that the public has the opportunity to know them and also via the media to ask for all explanations and opinions and thus to take note of their views, views, opinions and opinions. This has not been possible in the past. Last time, at the edge of the discussions on the role of the President of the Republic, let me mention that the President of the Republic, Borut Pahor, has, in this mandate, proposed to the National Assembly the candidates so far for the 20 most responsible state functions in this country. Except in one case, all candidates for these functions were elected in the first round and successfully perform their functions as the basic institutions of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u190	I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic for the election of four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, it shall decide on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the voting committee, namely Dr Mitja Horvat, SMC Group; Mr Franz Breznik, SDS Group; Miha Kordiš, Joint Left Group; and Ms Marinka Levičar, Desus Group. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? No, no, no. Then we move on to the decision on the proposed composition of the Commission. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, four votes will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member coming to the Chair's table and giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, each candidate proposed will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 18:00 and 55 minutes and will last until 19:00 and 15 minutes. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u191	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to a closed 18th point, this is on the Proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me read the logs. First of all, the minutes on the conclusion of the vote on the proposal for the election of Dr. Matei Access as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: “The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 22 March 2017. 89 ballots were distributed. 89 ballots were delivered. Three votes were invalid, 86 votes were valid. Seventy-five members voted against. On the basis of the outcome, the vote was elected by the majority of all Members as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia instead of a Judge whose term expires on 26 March 2017." The minutes on the outcome of the finding shall issue a vote on the proposal for the election of Dr Rajk Prince as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: “The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 22 March 2017. 89 ballots were distributed. 89 ballots were delivered. There were five invalid ballots, 84 valid ballots. 71 members voted against. 13 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome, the vote was voted by Dr Rajko Knez, by a majority of the votes of all Members, as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia instead of a judge whose term expires on 24 April 2017." The minutes of the outcome of the finding shall issue a vote on the proposal for the election of ddr. Klemna Jakliča as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: »The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 22 March 2017. 89 ballots were distributed. 89 ballots were delivered. Five ballots were invalid, 84 votes were valid. 57 members voted against. 27 members voted against. Based on the outcome, the vote was ddr. Klemen Jaklič, by majority of the votes of all Members elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, instead of a judge whose term expires on 26 March 2017." And the minutes on the outcome of the finding issue a vote on the proposal for the election of Dr. Marijan Pavčnik as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: “The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 22 March 2017. 89 ballots were distributed. 89 ballots were delivered. There were five invalid ballots, 84 valid ballots. 76 members voted against by 8 Members. On the basis of the outcome, the vote was voted by Dr. Marijan Pavčnik, by a majority of the votes of all Members, as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia instead of a judge whose term expires on 26 March 2017." I ask the elected judges to join us. I ask Dr. Matthew Accepttt, elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u192	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and that I will work with all my strength to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u193	You want to talk to the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Thank you so much for being so trusting. I will try not to let people down by my work in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u195	I thank Dr. Matthew Accepttt for his words, congratulations, and I wish him a successful job. I ask Dr Rajko Prince, elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u196	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience, and I will work with all my strength to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u197	You want to talk to the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u198	In our decision - making, we are often people with bad conscience because we simply do not know exactly whether we have made the right decision or not. The frequency of the trial softens it to a certain extent, but when it comes to the last instance, it cuts the load off. I made a promise to take on this burden, and I also took on the fact that I probably won't be very fond of people, because there will always be someone who doesn't like the decision. I took it with this promise, I take it, and for my support I thank my families first, then the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor, the Supreme Court and you, the National Assembly, Members. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u199	Dr. Rajko Prince, thank you for your words, congratulations, and I wish him a successful job. Please, ddr. Klemna Jaklič, elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u200	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and by my every effort to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u201	You want to talk to the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u202	I sincerely thank the sovereign of this country, that is, the people. The Constitution comes from you, and because of you, it's the Constitution. Thank you for the opportunity and responsibility to serve everyone with the same respect. Thank you also to those of you who have always trusted me. As I have already written in agreement with the candidacy, with such strong support for the rule of law, I would go to the ground of Slovenian reality not once, twice, but hundreds of times, if necessary. Thank you, too, to this election assembly, to those who have surrounded my name with such a majority. However, those who take the rule of men seriously do not want to be elected with a hundred percent support, so thank those of you who have contributed to this decision to its democracy. In particular, thank you to some individuals and individuals in this hall and outside of it who know about it on their own. President of the Republic, thank you for being president of everyone. In the end, you have Slovenia, your country. "In seven long years," you tell your boys in a folk song. You gave me 17 long years abroad. And that's why I know that, like every country, you carry within you the priceless good and the injustice. 17 is nothing compared to those whom the hand of your iniquity has ever, ever, ever truly attained. And those who were no longer allowed to see your beautiful mountains again, your flowering fields. From your injustice draw knowledge of your better, better future, that you may be a land of justice and equal opportunities for all. This promise has also been made in the constitution of your country, on all of us and those who come after us, to fulfill our part. So thank you for calling and happy country Slovenia! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u203	Ddr. I thank Klemen Jaklic for his words, congratulate him and wish him a successful job. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, is it really necessary?Oh, my God! I ask Dr. Marijan Pavčnik, elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u204	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience, and by all my strong efforts for constitutionality and legality, and for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u205	You want to talk to the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u206	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! For electing me as a judge of the Constitutional Court, I thank you for this trust. I'll try to be faithful to my oath. But I will be faithful, at least intimately, to the thoughts that I will now quote. It is a thought from the Second minute of the Five Minutes Philosophy of Law, this thought is pronounced by Gustav Radbruch. I quote: “No, no, we must not say: All that is good for the people is right; but the opposite must be said: Only that which is right is good for the people.” End of story. Thank you very much for your attention. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u207	I thank Dr. Marian Pavčnik for his words, congratulate him and wish him a successful job. We interrupt the 18th item of the agenda and also the 28th meeting of the National Assembly for the implementation of the phototerm of elected constitutional judges. We'll continue the meeting at 8:25.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u208	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Let us proceed with the adjourned 28th meeting of the National Assembly and the 18th item of the agenda. We move to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Attorney General The proposal for appointment was submitted by the State Prosecutor's Council for consideration by the National Assembly. At the joint meeting, the proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body and the Committee on Justice as an interested working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Mandate-Volution Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honorable President of the State Prosecutor's Council! The mandate-voluntary commission as the parent working body and the Committee on Justice as an interested working body shall be held at a joint meeting of 9. 3. 2017, both at its 31st session, addressed the proposal for the appointment of the Attorney General, which, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 114 and Article 102, first indent, of the Law on State Prosecutor to the National Assembly 20. 2. 2017 mediated by the Commonwealth Council. On the basis of the provisions of Article 111(1) of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the General Prosecutor shall appoint the National Assembly on a reasoned proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council after having obtained a preliminary opinion from the Government for six years with the possibility of reappointment. The first paragraph of Article 115 of the Act provides that the National Assembly shall invite candidates or candidates proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council to present their strategic programme and provide any additional clarifications concerning their application. The presentation is open to the public. The second paragraph of the same Article provides that the National Assembly shall not be bound by a proposal for appointment and shall not have to appoint the candidate proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council. The President of the State Prosecutor's Council Boris Ostruh and the candidate for Attorney General Drago Šket attended the joint meetings of the Commission and the Committee. The President of the State Prosecutor's Council, Boris Ostruh, presented their final proposal to the National Council for the Appointment of the Attorney-General. After examining the two applications received, the State Prosecutor's Council has unanimously proposed that the candidate Drag Šketo be interviewed with the two candidates and that the Government's opinion be examined. 6This very carefully presented the state and the problem of the State Prosecutor's Office, showing wide knowledge of the work of the State Prosecutor's Office and making numerous proposals to further improve the quality of the state's prosecution. In presenting his six-year strategic programme for the work of the State Prosecutor's Office, he said that he wanted to achieve the optimum relationship between time, costs and quality in the course of the prosecution's business. In doing so, he made a number of proposals to improve the functioning and effectiveness of the State Prosecutor's Office, in particular in order to improve the quality of work in prosecutions. He stressed that the prosecution must direct all efforts to ensure a successful, adequate and reliable prosecution for all crimes, thereby strengthening the trust of the professional and lay public and gaining international reputation. In its policy, therefore, prosecution will prioritise the treatment of economic, corruption, organised crime, serious violent crimes and crimes with very serious consequences, crimes where children and minors are victims, crimes in which the rights of workers and vulnerable groups of people are severely violated, crimes in which the perpetrators of public functions, cases in which the conditions for temporary insurance and confiscation of property of illegal origin and of older unsolved cases are demonstrated. In the debate, MEPs and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group pointed out that a person with high ethical integrity must be appointed to the post of Attorney General, who will lead the state prosecution ambitiously and autonomously, and will establish the discontinuity of the current functioning and leadership of the prosecution organisation. They also pointed out the contentious conduct of the State Prosecutor's Office in certain specific cases and wanted a candidate's definition of them. Among other things, they were interested in the candidate's position on remuneration and human resources policy in the State Prosecutor's Office, post-war beatings, hate speech, violations of the rights of workers and vulnerable groups, economic and organised crime and corruption. They also wanted a candidate's opinion on the responsibility of state prosecutors if they were proven to have violated human rights in the process. In its responses to the questions raised, the candidate highlighted activities aimed at amending the legislation in the field of justice, in particular from the point of view of the State Prosecutor's Office. He advocated discontinuity and announced a new policy of persecution, which will not only be carried out by the former, and better transparency and efficiency of the State Prosecutor's Office. Following the debate, the president of the Justice Committee found that the Committee on Justice had taken note of the strategic programme of the candidate general prosecutor. However, the Commission adopted the following decision: “The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision appointing Drago Sketa as the Attorney General for a period of six years.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u210	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u211	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have a vote for the Attorney General. The State Prosecutor's Council has proposed to Mr Drag Skett, the head of the Maribor District Attorney's Office, as the new Attorney General. The tasks and powers exercised by the Attorney-General in essence: adopting a policy of prosecution in accordance with the previous reasoned opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council; issuing general instructions on prosecution in a preliminary reasoned opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council; issuing general instructions to specify more precisely the conditions, criteria and specific circumstances affecting the decision of the Attorney-General; issuing general instructions on the conduct of prosecutions in the course of cases. Your Honor, here I have read to you and paraphrased a few basic tasks of the Attorney General, we are talking about the Attorney General. Of course, the candidate presented his program. In the Slovenian Democratic Party under this programme, and in particular on the basis of all the issues that have touched on all the problems identified in the Slovenian transition of the past 25 years, it has been concluded that we cannot talk about discontinuity, but that it is at least ideologically the same, we can say, the continuation of a path. In particular, answers, places of social property, wild privatisation, drug cartels, which are supposed to have one of the hotspots right at the bottom of our country, parallel banking system Probanka and Factor Banka, forum 21, post-war killings, two major banking rehabilitations, murders and state terrorism former State Security Services, which people still have contacts with ministers today, are various economists, some even Members and so on, political trials that continue not only in the previous regime, but also in the current, unexplored killings, money laundering, corruption in the health system, all of which were questions of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the Candidate. And to most of those questions that touched on the most pressing problems of the Slovenian transition, the candidate answered very flatly as a taboo topic, like some continuation of something, which is untouchable, respected colleagues and colleagues. We promised ourselves a relatively young candidate a lot more. We promised ourselves some kind of legal stance, the courage of some prosecutor. And let me just say, two years ago, the best foreign-language film for an Oscar was the proposed German film Im Labyrinth des Schweigens, a maze of lies. He's talking about Frankfurt in 1958, when no German actually wanted to remember his national socialist regime. At that time, young Prosecutor Johann Radmann received extensive documentation on the basis of which he was able to initiate proceedings against former members of the regime who had gone underground among teachers, judges, economists and also politicians who had participated in numerous Nazi crimes in German concentration camps. In this film, the young prosecutor proved that he was experiencing, we can say, even calvary, threats to death and everything else, but he started a way out, he found a way out of the maze of lies, from the postwar German society, and because of this young prosecutor, today newspapers worldwide report on a number of processes when people are looking for a few years before the death of those who have committed mass violations of human rights who have committed crimes on behalf of a dictatorship and on behalf of some ideology. As a result, Germany has become a different country. The German nation was cleansed and became a different nation. Why am I talking about this? I say that we are looking for such and such people and we are counting on them in the Slovenian Democratic Party to take over the prosecutorial functions, especially in the post of Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. We need a general prosecutor who's gonna be a maze of lies like Johann Radmann 60 years ago. After the performance of Mr Dragatin Šketa, the current head of the Maribor District Attorney's Office, I do not see a person in him, unfortunately I do not see a person in him who could lead us out of the maze of lies, with the initial and determined persecution of large and untouchable individuals who have managed to redirect the flow of Slovenian transition along with wild privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u212	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Don't you? Then we are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we repeatedly point out that there are urgent changes in justice, in particular with regard to transparency, the efficiency of justice and the acceptance of the responsibilities of judges and prosecutors. As has already been said, it is an extremely scrupulous system that moves very slowly and, of course, very slowly accepts some changes for the better. At the same time, around 73% of citizens do not believe in this system. Therefore, it is particularly important which people are appointed to such responsible functions in the judicial system. And here I have to say that at least with the last Attorney General, we didn't have a very happy hand. Let me just mention what he said on one of the news shows a while ago about accepting responsibility. He said: “The prosecutors are exempt from any liability.” Really?Oh, my God! This was, therefore, the operation of the current Attorney General. However, as for the candidate for the new Attorney General, I must say that he did not answer all the questions I asked me on the Mandate-Election Commission and some he answered very silently. I can say that he did not answer the question why, as Head of the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor, he did not point out the violations of human rights that had taken place in the Kangler case, and the current judge in the European Court of Human Rights, Mr Marko Bosnjak, did not reply, although he was aware of these violations of human rights. Then he gave me a very vague answer to my question as to how the postwar killings and in particular the processing of the perpetrators of this genocide were, of course, no answer was given to this by my question about the destruction of the archival material, which I believe is a cultural genocide. Let me remind you that some three or four years ago, I filed a criminal complaint against the prosecution for destroying the archival material against the then last Chief of State Security. They also had all the documentation required guidance, which was given, but then simply after a few years this appeal was dismissed, without any argument. I admit that the candidate that we are deciding on today has, at least, sent a vision of the prosecution to the Mandate-Election Commission at the outset, but after hearing in particular the answers to questions raised by me and my fellow Members of Parliament, I can say that this policy of action will continue to be the same, roughly the same as it was with the previous state prosecutor. That's why I can't confirm Mr. Scetta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u214	Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you, President. There are Members of Parliament who supported Bell Fisher six years ago. I wonder if we are pleased today with the body first called to lead the prosecution and conduct the proceedings in court. Are we satisfied? I think that we are the only ones in the majority that the prosecution of organised crime and other criminal forms, especially economic crime in Slovenia, is unsatisfactory. And a decision six years ago led to this perception and to this actual state of affairs, saying good-bye to the Attorney General, who was even prosecuted — can you imagine?Oh, my God! - in a democratic country. What am I trying to say? That today is a very important decision on how we will look at the prosecution of organised crime by all citizens and citizens in six years' time and what progress will be made in this regard. In the opening presentation by the chairman of the Committee of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, it was said that the candidate had promised or said that there would be a discontinuity of prosecution of criminal acts and in this respect a quantum leap forward. But this is not really a summary of the debate on the Commission's mandate. The candidate did not predict discontinuity. He used the word "better" to prosecute crime. Even better, even better, something that's already good in the early stages. So we come up with two conflicts of discontent in all kinds regarding the prosecution of crime, but at the same time he wants a discount for that and he proposes a candidate who says that in essence the prosecution is good at the current situation. Trust in the rule of law, the rule of law is on a minimum. Can it go any lower? If this country's rule of law clearly has such a doctrine that it can go even lower, today we are talking about 25% of trust in the rule of law, six years later we are at 17% or 15%, then of course we can support candidates who say that today's system is already good, that things are already working properly. But we are at that crucial point, essentially at the point of the breakthrough, where the prosecution of crime, organised economic and other forms of crime, should refuse to go up, accelerate its operation and actually carry out the functions of the body, which, because of its restrictiveness, will prevent the continuation of generally applicable practices where some can afford anything where they can break the law, and then nothing happens to them, so that it will also work with its seriousness preventively on everyone else who might think that they would surrender on this path. I must admit that after the debate at the Mandate-Volution Commission, I did not get the feeling that this is the right candidate to bring a new wind, to wind a new wind, and that, in fact, with all the expertise and momentum, the prosecution of crime in the Republic of Slovenia will be carried out, allowing the State Prosecutor's Office, including the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, to carry out the task that taxpayers expect of this institution. And that's why I can't really support the candidate. I fear that the vote of those who will support this today will again be the vote that we will regret in six years due to poor results and no better results.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u216	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u217	President, thank you for your word. I will not support Mr Sket's candidate for the post of Attorney General, and I cannot support him. First of all, because he did not answer one specific question for me on the Mandate-Election Commission. Allow me to raise this particular issue, which we have discussed a lot before about the constitution, about respect for the Constitution, about how important the function of constitutional judges is. Let me also point out how important it is, who is at the top of the prosecutors, who will perform this function in the future. Either we move forward in this area or we want the situation as it is now. And what's our current status? That there's practically no one left behind for banking crime. I specifically asked the candidate what he felt about the work of the Attorney-General so far, about the fact that he was late with the annual reports, and this year after year. There was no answer. I asked him what he thought he was six months late with the so-called pursuit he was supposed to prepare, and it was that it was sort of the direction of the prosecutor's work. He didn't answer me. I asked him how it was that he sentenced Mr Kangler for 7 months at the post of Supreme Prosecutors of Maribor, although the practice of the past was known that someone would be punished for similar cases for 6 months. And more! I asked him if he took responsibility for condemning someone without a basis, without a reason, and his constitution was broken and his mandate was taken away, which would never be restored. He did not answer that either, even though he always stressed that he was taking on his responsibility. In this matter, he has never taken over, but today he is rewarded for running for office. I also asked him what was the matter with Satex, one of the worst of my concepts, criminal cases in the country of Slovenia, where 11 million euros had been cut off and where a witness who could say anything about the matter had a fatal traffic accident at that time. This matter was not closed either, or everyone was forgiven. And in this place and when this was happening, Mr. Scetta was the chief of the DA's office. And the same person, respected by dear citizens and citizens, is today becoming the top of our prosecution. I am truly surprised that I do not hear a single voice from the United Left, which is full of the mouth of the rule of law, the protection of human rights, the constitution. In such cases, when it comes to crime, when it comes to 11 million, when it comes to prison sentences without grounds and the taking away of a mandate, when we are not talking about giving Members to the minimum, even though we forget that then and work a fifth time, but when we are talking about specific matters, the specific things that some are responsible for are all silent in this Chamber. Your Honor! I can't support Mr. Scetta. I cannot support him as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I cannot support him on behalf of all those who have been violated by human rights who cannot perform their functions because of political processes, and I cannot support him in any way as a Member. Because it dictates my conscience, it dictates my constitution, and not least, my respects, it commands that farmer's common sense. The hall is beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u218	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u219	Good-bye to all of you! Did you know that Slovenia, according to official statistics, is an infamous European record based on the alleged human rights violations and judgments against the country of Slovenia handed down by the European Court of Human Rights? And that between these judgments there are two in the first place. Because of the long-term procedure and because of the fact that there is no effective remedy. These two things are the most problematic. And don't think that prosecutors have no role to play, far from that. When it comes to the issue of prosecutors, the first problem in relation to their conduct, which seems more or less common to everyone in Slovenia, except those who study constitutional law in depth, is the relationship between the judge and the prosecutor. In a judicial theory, a judge should be a neutral middleman who would weigh on one side between the prosecution's arguments, be called the prosecutor, and on the other hand between the defendant's defence, and that with a scale. That's why Justice has a scale in their hand. You know that in Slovenia it is the most normal thing to do, and it seems quite common for judges and prosecutors to get together, but what and how about the current procedural issues, the content, and everything gets a little messy, and in the end there is one such common conclusion, and of course with what the court should be doing, there is no longer much connection. It may be that this guilt is more on the judge's side, but even prosecutors should not agree that they are in such a role as is often the case. Then anyone who has ever been employed in a court of law or who has had anything to do with it can say something very interesting, but it is a constitutional issue. Another such problem is that, in fact, the prosecutor is in our legal order the point where, in fact, he is the most free of judgment. Since the last amendment of the legislation, it has been for years now, practically without any higher-level control, one way or another. Formally, it must, of course, acquire that, in fact, these definitions or explanations are nothing, the copy-paste is called, all of you in computer science know this concept well. And then it happens that someone is going to report a crime to the police and the prosecution, the police are doing the procedure to go forward with things, and they are gathering the relevant evidence, the prosecutor decides that, while, yes, the signs of the crime are not going to prosecute it, and that he is going to prosecute it, if he wants, what you all know is that the prosecution is much more demanding than the damages, then it usually happens that he is going to go to the damages action, and then, you won't believe, it happens in some matter that is crystal clear that such a thing is happening for five years and more and that he has to end up having so much damage from the proceedings, because he has to pay for what he doesn't need, except for the prosecutor's share of the transaction that he's been paid for, which is actually in fact, despite the fact, in all cases, to decide on behalf of him, in the end, he has to pay what he doesn't need to pay, except for the expert to pay to pay for the proceedings that he pays him. And that the measure be full, whoever loses in all instances there to the Constitutional Court, can from this first dead cold week and weeks work a public fool. So much for respect for the Constitutional Court and full respect for justice. One can say that it is a large part of the blame, so the biggest part is only the court, perhaps even right, but none of it would have happened the way it did if the prosecutor had done his job. And when I asked the candidate at the hearing what he would do, that such things would no longer happen, that there would not be citizens of the first order and citizens of the second order, those first order of course have legal judgments in a week or two, and the second five years fighting in vain, there was no answer and therefore I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u220	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. We have officials and officials in this country. We have officials who are subject to persecution, such as in specific cases, the latest, Marko Pogačnik, Andrej Šircelj, a little past history: Andrej Magajna, you have the case of Janez Janša, the case of Trent or the case of Patrio. And we have officials in this country chasing you. These law enforcement officials were persecuted on the basis of human rights violations. For all of these, either the Supreme Court, as the final court or the Constitutional Court, has found that they have been violated by other human rights officers in proceedings against them. Prosecutors, the criminal police, took part in these proceedings, including the Anti-Corruption Commission. And when I asked the Attorney General what he was going to do against the officials who were leading the proceedings against the other officials who were eventually forgiven or the verdicts were overturned, he wouldn't answer, he wouldn't answer. For one of the officials of this country, even the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption at the meeting of the Mandate-Villary Commission said that he did not want to enter his shoes, but they were two in the shoes of his predecessors, because they were infected with the fungi of crime. And now, if the State official declares this publicly in the National Assembly that it has been done in some cases, because the former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Klemenčič, has led some proceedings against other officials in order to satisfy some of the political appetites of the people who have put him in this place, then it certainly belongs to the category of officials, those officials for whom the President of the Mandate-Volution Commission, when he read what the candidate presented, certainly, are crimes in which the perpetrators of public functions are. If those who assume the post of Attorney General are unable to identify those offenders who have led proceedings against and brought criminal proceedings against other officials, then we do not need such a Attorney General in this country, because he will again present a line such as that of the current Attorney General when they were on the one hand and those officials who are allowed to do everything and, on the other hand, those against whom everything was directed, on the basis of indications and not on the basis of actual crimes. A little earlier, constitutional judges, elected constitutional judges and an important part of their oaths were to respect the Constitution and then to protect fundamental freedoms and human rights. At this point, followed by the previous point, we are deciding on a person who, as the Attorney General of the State, is not able to recognize these matters at all or to say that she will stand firm in defending these matters. So, what can we expect? Political pursuits against people who don't like some profile. There will certainly be no improvement in this area. Thus, officials who do not meet a policy profile will continue to be subject to indictive and similar prosecutions, falsified findings from various investigative and supervisory authorities, for example, perhaps even the anti-corruption and judgment committees will eventually fall against those who have caused these cases, but nothing will happen at all, no procedure of prosecution, determination of responsibility, suspension and so on. You have the Magajna case, you have the Ornik case, you have the Kangler case, which has already been listed, and so on. The victims on the one hand, the causes are also known because they have been imposed on them and no sanctions imposed on them. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u222	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I'd like to add something else that I've also given in the position of the Group. Somehow in some story, I wanted to cover what kind of prosecutors in this failed transition Slovenia deserves and what kind of man, with what integrity, and especially with what courage I should go to the top, we can say, for the Attorney General. However, to be very frank, Drago Sketa is a better option or certainly a step forward if we look at the current Attorney General. The man has no great backpack, as does the current Attorney-General, who has committed mass violations of human rights in the former totalitarian regime and who is by no means able to judge the top of the prosecution nor in any of the judicial professions. What bothered us, me and my colleagues, were very flat-rate answers to typical topics of untouchable people in Slovenian society. As I said at the beginning, Slovenia has more than 600 postwar graves. How many people did we find among the culprits? How many people were guilty? How many people were legally convicted? Not a single, respected colleague or colleague, not a single one. In Germany, in recent years we have had trials against former Udbian great bosses, especially the heads of federal and republican divisions. As you know, two of them were sentenced to life imprisonment. From 1970 to 1979, the Maribor uprising carried out 19 bombings on the Austrian Koroška. Prosecutors in Salzburg are currently investigating the suspicions of the murders of Silva Gorenc and Janez Zemlaric. Janez Zemlarič, under your government, goes to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Lobby for various projects. Janez Zemljarič is lobbying for Gorenje engineering along with Isajlović, a company that has not paid, I do not know how many subcontractors at the Prekmurski voivodeship. Do you think that's normal company? Do you think that the case that I was talking about today, speaking from a true story, the German film Im Labyrinth des Schweigens, is the Labyrinth of lies in which this young courageous prosecutor after 13 years of silence, after people who somehow managed to resolve after the collapse of the regime and melt with some new German society? Similarly, after the fall of the communist regime and the failed transition was due to the fact that the perpetrators were never punished. They weren't being punished for bank robberies, not the first robbery, not the second robbery. They've never been punished, never been punished for wild privatisation. As you know, the great leaders of drug cartels, of which the European public all speak, have not been convicted in Slovenia until now. We're only talking about smaller fish, some small carriers that they literally got with their fingers in marmalade. We can also talk about corruption in health care. Is it a fellow Member Godec who will perform or take over the work of the Attorney General or a colleague who sits in front of me? Dr Logar has done more work than all prosecutors together in the Republic of Slovenia in the area of banking crime by now and many colleagues. That the D.A. doesn't work, see how many investigative committees there were only in the National Assembly. Do you think it is a fundamental work in the National Council of Inquiry or is it a search for the best solutions, as far as legislation, a respected colleague and colleague is concerned? So all of this shows that the prosecution has so far failed to carry out its task of not persecuting, we can say, people, people, people, especially major officials from the former regime. Irgle's colleague specifically asked the Commissioner's Mandate-Election Commission, what she also thought about destroying the archive. So someone's proposing a story about some history that we want to change when we say prove that it was true, and they say, but we destroyed the archives. I want to know why no one was responsible for the destruction of the literally cultural genocide that took place in 1990. And all these questions, when they were put to the candidate, were very general, so it points to some topics that, we can say, are fatal, where some negative human resources selection, if you go to these issues, never in the regular system of the prosecution or the judicial system leads you to the top. That's why we were disappointed by the candidate. We have expected more, and I must admit that we have not been firmly determined how we will vote. But after such flat-rate answers, about taboo topics he didn't want to talk about, or he was talking flat-rate, of course. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u224	This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Drago Šket as Attorney General for a period of six years. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 51 for the vote and 17. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration in the assembly. In order to further explain the decision, I give the floor to Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Mandate-Volution Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Messengers and Members! I inform you that the Mandate-Volution Commission, pursuant to Rule 36 and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure, is at its 32nd regular session. 3. provisions of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 10(2) of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia, the Commission has established a mandate-holder commission on the basis of which the National Assembly appoints and disposes of the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia proposes to adopt the following decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia: »In the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, for a period of five years they shall be appointed on the proposal of all representative and other disability organisations operating at national level, and on the proposal of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, Vinko Bilić, Ivo Jakovljevic, Mirjam Kanalec, Milan Kleinšek, Zdenka Ornik, Andrej Pagon, Martina Piskač, Aleksandra Rijavec Škerl, Polona Šmid, on the proposal of the Red Crisis of Slovenia, Alojz Kovačič, on the proposal of Slovenian Karitas mag. Helena Zevnik Rozman, on the proposal of the Mountain Rescue Union of Slovenia Ljubo Hansel, on the proposal of humanitarian organisations that are listed in the Register of Humanitarian Organizations, mag. Edo Pava Belak, Eva Gračanin, Darjan Mencigar, Alojz Rudolf, Dragica Siko, Simon Stegna and Liljana Vukenović.« Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u226	There are no public hearings. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 71. No one. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Broadcasting Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the decision, I give the floor to Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Mandate-Volution Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Messengers and Members! On the basis of Article 36 and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Commission shall meet at its 32nd session. 3. 2017 lays down the proposal for a decision appointing members for broadcasting. On the basis of Article 100 of the Media Act, the proposal set out in the second paragraph that the Council shall consist of seven members appointed by the National Assembly on the basis of a public call. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of the same Article, the term of office of the President and members shall be five years and may be re-appointed after the end of the term of office. On the basis of Article 100 of the Media Act and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following proposal for a decision. Decision appointing members for broadcasting: “For members of the Broadcasting Council, for a period of five years they are named Jure Godler, mag. Rina Klinar, mag. Mitja Kregar, Aleš Lipičnik, Gorazd Škrabar, Samo Šter, Rok Tomažinčič.« Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u228	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u229	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! We'll talk again. This time I'll be very short. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the list of candidates for the Broadcasting Council. As you know, the Broadcasting Council also has one of the highest priorities in 2017, which represents active and fruitful cooperation with the Agency for Communications Networks and Services in the Republic of Slovenia for the purposes and preparation of the introduction of public calls, for the purpose of granting the remaining free radio frequencies that still exist in the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of performing analogue, sound broadcasting for local specialised and general commercial radio stations in the Republic of Slovenia to interested radio broadcasters. In addition to these tasks, the Broadcasting Council has, of course, the task of monitoring European guidelines in the field of independent media regulation. I'm talking about independent media regulation. And of course, the Council, as the current coalition, does not, of course, take account of a certain coalition quota in this vote, which is why it does not take account of it, is not prepared to cooperate with the opposition. For this reason, of course, in all of this, in the seriousness of the work of the Broadcasting Council in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose this letter and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u230	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Broadcasting Council. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u231	This time, too, thank you very much for the floor, Mr President-respected. Messengers and Members! On the basis of Article 36 and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at its 32nd regular session 16. 3. 2017 set out the text of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal has been established by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission on the basis of Article 7, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which provides that the work of the Supervisory Board shall be supervised by the Supervisory Board, which shall have a chairman and nine members appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 7, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that it adopt a decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. »In the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is appointed as a member of mag. Igor Janez Zajec.« Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u232	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellows! I promise you, I'm calling from this pay phone for the last time today. Of course, as always, I'll start with some historical facts, and then I'll [[…]] [[A laugh.]] The question of its decommissioning and the final disposal of radioactive waste, of course, remained unanswered at the time of the construction and operation of the nuclear power plant in Krk. Since it was a complex issue, mainly related to the provision of funds for its fulfilment, it remained unresolved for more than two decades. The answer to it was finally formulated in Slovenia alone with all the awareness of the responsibility placed on our shoulders. The fund for financing the decommissioning of the Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste was established in the spirit of this responsibility. Its central mission was then and remains an effective and lasting solution to both the decommissioning of the power plant and its produced radioactive waste and the use of nuclear fuel. The latest amendment to the Fund Act took place on 24 June 2008, which is, of course, again, in the first Janša government, and if the Fund of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, which has been flowing, nobility and increased, the start of procedures for the construction of a landfill of low and medium-sized radioactive waste starts the period of increased investment of the collected funds. The NEK Fund must assume the role of a good host and ensure that the funds collected are spent on purpose. The amendment of the law ensures adequate security, profitability and liquidity of the funds raised, while at the same time giving the Fund the NEK the right and the duty to control the use of the funds raised. This Supervisory Committee, composed of a President and nine members, shall keep an eye on the work, as the President of the Commission on Election and Mandate, Dr Horvat, has said, and shall keep an eye on the work of this power plant's fund. All members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the National Assembly and shall therefore be appointed for a term of five years. In addition, the two key tasks of the Supervisory Board are to verify the final accounts and operating reports of the Fund and report annually to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We will not support the remainder of the candidate's term of office. We had a very good candidate, and the opposition did not get a chance again, despite the fact that it was only the rest of the mandate. Our candidate was a magician. Bojan Kekec, who is an excellent acquaintance of this area. Unfortunately, you didn't elect him, as you always voted us out, and that's why we're going to vote against the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u234	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to appoint mag as a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for the remainder of the mandate. Igor Janez Rabbit. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal to amend the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present, 76 were voted in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 49. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 50. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on kindergartens. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on kindergartens is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mr Saša Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u235	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues! In our debate, we Members of the Modern Centre Party were very precise, why the proposal for a law is not good. Not because it wouldn't be systemic, but because it just isn't effective. In the controversy that opened up, the opposition of the novel, among other things, was made clear to the members of the ad group, that they were not patriotic or that they were not for the Slovenian country, which is completely depressed, given the number of Members coming professionally in the field of culture and education, which means from those planes which are through the cultivation of the Slovenian language and knowledge the basic building block of Slovenian national identity and also of Slovenia. We believe that pre-school education and child protection is an important part of education policy not only when it touches programmes, but also when it provides adequate capacities and standards that the novelty could, of course, be asked or questioned. When we talk about such a sensitive topic as family policy, demographics and education, it is important to be very careful and, of course, also to be alert when the political discourse from the patriotic shift into indirect nationalist agitation. I think that this should be the basic basis for the parliamentary dignity of this esteemed State Assembly, where the law introduces a completely equal measure, which the Court of Auditors has already identified as completely inappropriate and unfair. For all of this we have decided not to give him any support in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u236	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u237	Dear coalition, I have a feeling it will happen again very quickly on January 2. A few more months will turn around, the elections will be even closer, and I am almost certain that the coalition will come with a proposal for a kindergarten law, where another child will be reintroduced in kindergarten for free. We'll see who's right. I'll wait a few months, but this time it's an opposition proposal, and I believe there's no great enthusiasm on the coalition side. Of course, in the New Slovenia Group we will support this law. Support it because it is important for the coordination of family and professional life. And for one more thing is important, it can be at least a small part of the increase in Slovenian fertility, that at least it would not be a reason for young couples not to decide for children, that they have no protection or that protection is too expensive, that they cannot afford it. I have been in my debate, and I am not ashamed of it, even if you and a nationalist have talked to me in the direction that the birth rate in Slovenia is unfortunately very low – 1.5 children per mother at birth age – and that if we want to survive as a nation for a long time, we need to increase the birth rate. And if we want our culture to be preserved, if we want the social picture of Slovenia or the social structure to not change significantly, then we need to have more children. I am not ashamed of this, and this law would certainly make an important contribution. Of course, this law would also solve one very important issue called the financial burden of families, those who have ever spoken to each other, if you no longer have your children in kindergarten, and may come to you in your local parliamentary offices on Mondays at least the parents of those children or parents who have children in kindergartens, and most likely they can tell you that kindergarten is as high a burden as possible. And of course, if you have two or more children, if you're a family with more than one child, you're being punished in some way because the burden of that is extremely high. Of course, this law would help these families in a very concrete way. And all the other countries and all the other governments around us, on poor demographic indicators, on low fertility, act with concrete numbers, with additional means, while we act as if, or above all, the coalition behaves, that the world will end with the next elections, and no one is interested in what will then be, but the people must continue to live on after the next elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u238	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. I'm not answering at this early hour because I was mostly quiet, but because I actually have to answer. Just because I was dealing with social development indicators, social development measurement, social development policies, social development theories for the first half of my academic career. We will support this issue, because it is, as I simply call it, “restraint”. But I'm calling about something else. Over the years, I've been doing a lot of analysis of so-called demographic policies. Most demographic policies have been, or have been, half successful or unsuccessful today. With this we will not save Slovenian birth, we will not come from 1.5 to 2.3, this is resolved in some other and different ways. It is resolved by what I have recently called another and different political economy, another and a different economy, another and a different development model. In this session, you've all talked about these children so much that one would think that there are 10 million in Slovenia, and we need two years to arrange some school meals, my dear. And then we brag about how successful we were, and I personally think that's why I'm going to throw up, and I'm gonna be honest with you. We don't even ask ourselves why young people don't have children. I don't know if you've read the Court of Auditors' audit report recently on youth policies that have shown that this society and the state do not actually have them. They're gone! Apart from those who are in the coalition, you may have a young partner, but few of them have a "potate". That's the problem. There are no serious policies in this society for under 40 years. We don't have any serious housing policy since the Jóbin law. I could count it now, but I won't. And these are questions when we have to hold ourselves as Baron Munchausen by the ears – I have fortunately a great one – and start to save them. And then demographic policy will be resolved. With this composition of the National Assembly, with this coalition, this government will unfortunately not be. But we're going to support this because it's a blowout in the right direction. From some serious solutions to demographic policy, however, we are light years away from the universe. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u240	We're voting. There were 79 Members and Members present, 28 Members voted against and 48 against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research on the allocation of the status of an associate member as a previous phase of membership in June. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andrea Barle Lakota, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u241	Your Honor! On 16 December last year, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Maja Makovec Brenčič signed an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research – CERN. It is a central global laboratory for particle physics and it is one of the elite scientific institutions. This Agreement establishes the rights and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia as associated members. Slovenia's accession is a pre-eminent phase of full membership, and this phase will last for a maximum of five years. This phase represents a key step towards the continued participation of Slovenia, namely researchers, research institutions, economies and students in particle physics. This means that our economists and, of course, scientists and students will be able to access infrastructure that they would not otherwise be, to engage in research that they would otherwise not have access to, and, of course, to the use of scientific achievements. The acquisition of associate member status will therefore take five years and a five-year period is in line with the pre-phases applicable to other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u242	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother's work, which reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u243	Your Honor! The Republic of Slovenia has made clear in its core strategic and development documents that it wants to develop in the 21st century as a knowledge society. This commitment to ourselves and our citizens is also expressed in the July 2015 Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. We have also included the recognition of Slovenian scientific and educational activities and excellence in the international space among the main objectives of Slovenian foreign policy. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are pleased to be an important step closer to the main objective by ratifying the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Cerno on the granting of the status of associate members. While Slovenia was already involved in the operation of this elite organisation through Yugoslavia as its founding member and the Organisation of Slovenian Scientists, which were already bearing elements of important projects in the 1970s, the process of joining the independent Republic of Slovenia to Cernu began in 1992. Despite long-term planning, however, the breakthrough in the desire to become a member of Cern took place only at the time of the current government. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport resumed talks with Cerno in August 2015 and then opened and successfully concluded negotiations with Cerno last December with the signing of the Associated Membership Agreement. Cern became known to the general public primarily because of Higgs boson, the so-called God's particle. His existence was confirmed with the help of Cerno's great Hadron knocker and thus opened a new chapter in atomic physics. Cern is the world's central particle physics laboratory dealing with the development of science for peace. It is less known, however, that the organization was established in 1954 to respond to the use of nuclear physics in the manufacture of nuclear weapons in World War II. Cern promotes cooperation between European countries, bringing together material and human resources that no other country can afford for itself. Associated membership in Cerno will enable Slovenian scientists to participate in research and the use and creation of high-tech products. In Slovenia there are currently 30 scientists working in the field of experimental physics of basic particles. Many of Cerno's educational programmes, exchange options, scholarships and post-doctoral and post-doctoral training, however, we can hope for an even greater number of highly qualified experts who will be able to transfer and use the acquired knowledge in other areas. Associated membership in Cerno also opens up great opportunities for the Slovenian economy. Slovenian companies will have access to Cerna's orders and the possibility of breaking into demanding markets with high-level knowledge-added products. Part of the membership paid by the Republic of Slovenia will be dedicated to the purchase of products and services from Slovenian companies. For all the above reasons and multi-layer benefits arising from the associated membership in Cern, we will, of course, support the proposal of the Law on the ratification of the Agreement in the modern centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u244	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u245	Dear Mr. President! The Law on the ratification of the National Assembly under the Foreign Affairs Act can only be proposed by the Government. On 18 March 2015, two years ago and two days ago, I was on the Committee on Foreign Policy, which, every month at its regular meeting, gave members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy the opportunity to send questions and parliamentary initiatives, i.e. two years and two days ago in the Foreign Policy Committee, I gave the Government the initiative to start the procedures for Slovenia's membership in the CERN Scientific Multinationality. This multinational employs about 2 000 600 people, researching about 8 thousand scientists, experts from around the world. It also actually shows, for several years now, that Slovenian physics is a good physics, so that Slovenians have well-educated physics and are highly valued in Cern and in the world. I am pleased that after two years and after two days of this word, the Members' initiative has become meat, as it is said. And it was about time that Slovenia became, well, now associated, and I hope that soon a regular member of this scientific multinational Cern too. The New Slovenia Group will, of course, support this law on ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u246	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. I apologize to everyone, especially my colleague Han, but I must. You probably overheard, but when you drive home, think about why we spent 25 years. So much for science and science in this society and country. And I'll say one more thing. I come to Parliament and then it's relatively fast to become a wallpapered member of the European Space Agency. And I called one of the gentlemen who's partying closer there, and I'm looking at my colleague Irgle to talk a little bit about these things. And at the end of the day, the gentleman said to her, and there's something I have to tell you. He was so embarrassed. So I said, yeah, come on. Look, I'm such an honest man. He said, you know, he didn't call me in politics. What do we do now? Good thing I said, yes, good night, I'm a scientist after all, yet still with a code, which is a few of us here unlike, I don't know, Mr. Lejak, who I don't think has the code, and it seems to me that it would be a time not to snarl to a colleague, I hope you'll be graduating soon, if you haven't, it's high time to get serious about science. We girls will write some very bad smart specialisation strategies when it's embarrassing for me to go to Brussels and hear about it, and where else. Well, I have listened very nicely to Baneta and my next question will be, not because of the electoral candy, but how much will we devote to Slovenian science with this economic growth that we now have. And I hope that the answer I will get as an opposition Member will not be a nebulosis. We will, of course, support this on behalf of the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u248	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, all of whom unanimously adopted this law. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I hope you get some rest by tomorrow.
