ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Violeta Tomić, Erika Dekleva by 11 p.m., Vesna Vervega by 13 p.m., Vojka Šergan by 16 p.m., mag. Tanja Zink until 3 p.m., Anita Koleša from 3 p.m., Urška Ban to 12 p.m., Susana Lepi Šimenko, Nada Brinovšek from 19 h.m., Jelka Godec from 19 h.m. on, Iva Dimic from 14 h.m., Ljudmila Novak to 12 h.m. and from 18 h.m. on, Marijan Pojbič, Matjaž Nemec from 18 h.m., Dr. László Göncz from 13 h.m. Aleksander Kavčič, Matjaž Hanžek until 1:00, Franz Breznik, Miha Kordiš from 16.30 to 20.30, Jernej Vrtovec from 17:00 and Zvonko Lah from 10 to 20:00. I welcome all those present in spite of everything! But it's only right that this is how you protect yourself. We're moving to 43. Agenda item – Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the coherent regional development and the establishment of conditions for new jobs on the ground. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Andrej Čuš, Member of the National Assembly. The proposal for a recommendation is 11. 5. 2017 treated the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u2	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members, good afternoon! Position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning coherent regional development and the creation of conditions for new rural jobs, EPA 1856-VII. Ambassador Andrej Chuš is 21. 3. 2017 submitted a proposal for a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure. Day 10. 5. In 2017, we received a proposal to withdraw the proposal from the National Assembly. The withdrawal proposal indicated that the Member has an indeterminate obligation at the local level. At the regular meeting of the Committee on the Economy, we have nevertheless considered the recommendation. The Ministry of Economy convinced us with its argument. We have not supported or followed the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will do so today. The MEP believes that in more than 30 years we have failed to take a sufficient step towards reducing regional differences. It believes that state centralism needs to be replaced by decentralisation and transfer of responsibility for development to local level. The provincial level must assume responsibility for the preparation and management of development programmes and the state must set up appropriate controls. The proposer also considers that the great potential for preserving and creating new jobs in Slovenia is mainly rural, especially in the area of agriculture, and that the Government does not implement the Harmonised Regional Development Act, which consequently leads to rural extinction and urban escape. The response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent to the National Assembly shows that this 29 September 2016 adopted the Strategy for the Development of Local Self-Government in the Republic of Slovenia by 2020. The main objective of the strategy is to strengthen local self-government and consequently improve the quality of life at local level. Regional policy is mainly implemented in Slovenia in the area of the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development. Efforts to reduce development differences between regions are linked to reducing development differences and the eastern and western cohesion regions during this programming period. Unlike the previous period, greater emphasis is placed on promoting entrepreneurship and maximising the benefits of existing infrastructure projects. How many development projects will be co-financed under the Eastern Cohesion Region funds will depend primarily on two factors – the quality of projects that will run in public tenders and the possibility of coordination by the region of the proposed projects. In particular, support will be given to those types of activities that will create conditions for the creation of jobs or an additional source of rural income in connection with the addition of wood value. It will be necessary to establish as long a forest chain as possible – we have been talking about this for a long time and things are moving more slowly – local self-sustainment, green tourism, natural and cultural heritage and traditional knowledge, social entrepreneurship, social security services, management of organic waste and renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u3	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Apart from the introduction of the proposal itself, no further effort or sincere intention of the proposer was actually made to make substantive progress in reducing regional disparities and rural recovery. We can only point out that it is only the proposaler's finding that the Government is not doing well enough in this area, which is, of course, not supported by any concrete argument. Our view is that, within the framework of limited budgetary options, the Government is working and consistently implementing the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, that it has adopted a strategy for the development of local self-government in Slovenia and that it is implementing an active agricultural policy and rural development policy. In designing and implementing policies, we are confident that, in line with the budgetary resources available, it will take into account the principles of coherent regional development and thus create conditions for jobs, whether or not in rural areas. Well, they're legal grounds. This is a strategy for the development of local self-government in the country by 2020, the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, as well as the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014 to 2020. In short, even without these recommendations, which he listed in the paper of his colleague Chuš, we have legal bases, we have laws, we have strategies, we have documents that speak in favour of making a move, a leap in this area, only consistently need to implement this legislation. By the way, in our coalition contract, which somehow led us through our work over these four years, we have written down that in the long term we want to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and consequently reduce its vulnerability and reduce the dependence on subsidies in the production of healthy and affordable food. We are clearly committed to modern agriculture, which will ensure the highest possible rate of self-sustainment. The aim is to raise the level of self-sustainment for products where the lowest rates of self-sustainment are identified and where products and market potentials exist to increase. As a result of climate change and instability in international agricultural markets, agricultural economies should be encouraged to contribute to the domestic market as much as possible of the quantities of produce to be provided at a higher level as close as possible to 100% – self-sustainment. We also want the generational transfer of farms, the strengthening of knowledge, the transfer of innovation and good practices to be carried out consistently. We would like to establish institutional conditions and incentives that encourage young people to take over farms from older generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u5	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u6	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support these recommendations because we believe that in recent years the country has a very macho attitude towards regional development. Years ago, around 2010, the mouth of the then government and the policy on coherent regional development were full, special laws were passed, and now this is no longer the case. We do not have another level of local self-government, as the Government says, it is not political will to establish it, but also to draw on European funds, and because of the organisation and implementation of infrastructure projects, we would need this very much at the local level. Congregations are appointed, the state does not provide enough money to help municipalities that have a much better view of this can help to achieve more coherent regional development. We have poor food supply, nothing is getting better, and the country should do more for the countryside. We don't have a built-in utility infrastructure. We can be ashamed that we are in the European Union, and after so many years, 280 thousand Slovenians do not have healthy drinking water, not to mention decommissioning and cleaning waste water, as is the situation. We are adopting some regulations, but these regulations are not being implemented, they are not being organised to implement these projects, so something needs to be done. In the New Slovenia Group we support any recommendations aimed at doing more in this area. I hope that with new legislation, both construction and spatial, some progress will be made, although it does not show that something will accelerate and change in due course because it is necessary. That is why we will support this recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u7	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. TIME OF DAY — FIRST REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AN ENTIRE EARLY TREATMENT OF PRE-CHOICE CHILDS WITH SPECIFIC NEEDS. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 68 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr. Clear Murgel. With regard to this bill, 61 Members and Members of Parliament, firstly signed by Dr Murgel, requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's a really nice day for me today. I will speak from the heart, or I have a paper written, but I would like to say that when I was running for office, it somehow seemed to me that this mission was to be a Member, but when it came to this law, to its preparation, but I found that it was actually so. You can have your mission to achieve something in Parliament to improve the situation for the people. I am glad that this law will see the light of the world because we really need it. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 400 000 children in the Republic of Slovenia, of which about 15% are children who have risk factors in development. When we discussed this law in a broad discussion at the round tables we organised, experts and I found that this percentage is still significantly higher, that there were about 25% of such children because medicine had progressed, because parents were also more and more older, because there are many factors and these children are much more visible; so, these children have parents, they have relatives. Somehow, if we find that these children who have risk factors in development are somewhere between 40 and 60 000 and then multiply this number by the number of family members, we get some tenth of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, which is concerned by this law, because this child is not alone, I have my own family, which is its primary support unit. I think it's very important that we deal with this issue. If you read newspapers, if you look at social networks, you see many times the parents who literally some of them scream in a cry for help because they often feel alone in this position when they have such a child. Many times this screaming is justified, perhaps sometimes not, but the common thing is that it is often true that the actual child, the family, is taught several times on its own because it does not have the right support, the right help. That is why I also tried to help myself 10 years ago or more, as far as I know and know from my profession as a lawyer, and I wrote a Guide to the Rights of Children with Special Needs. That's why this law is about helping these families and these kids. The purpose of the law is to ensure the protection of the child, to treat the child multidisciplinaryly, as well as the entire family. Furthermore, the purpose of the law is to link the existing services we have. Of course, it is not that we have nothing, we have individual early treatment services, but these early treatment services and some other services need to be linked into a single system. We have certain health services, and then we have rights in the field of social protection and education and education. This matter needs to be linked to the whole and provided to the family with support and information. The aim of the law is also to extend existing capacities to provide early treatment services to children and families. Therefore, to extend the development clinics in which these children are treated, and also to provide funding by the State for the development departments of kindergartens. Ladies and gentlemen, the law before us is, of course, a compromise, because that is always the case when we decide on a law that is in Parliament. We could not follow all our desires, even though the original text was somehow such a collection of desires. We can only take on preschool education because of the various factors that I will then talk about. We couldn't get the early-treatment institute I wanted, and so on. What is essential is that we have pursued the aim of ensuring the protection of the general group of children and also that all children will be sifted through this system and that a systemic solution is provided for children. In my opinion, the law is necessary, it is necessary for children, and I therefore thank all those who have contributed signatures to the law and will continue to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u9	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am also pleased that this law has come to pass, but I am saddened by one thing — that is, the government representatives are not here to express their views. And, Mrs Jasna Murgel, I regret this matter because it would be good for us to hear the Government's opinion, given that the law was prepared in the National Assembly and prepared by the Member. So, if not for an opinion, at least the presence of the Government here would be very desirable, necessary, and I think that this is a reflection of the current government to the Members and also to the proposer. Mrs Jasna Murgel said that she was pleased, which I believe personally, in view of her situation, and she is also grateful that she has made her efforts. I must say, however, that we did not sit at the crossroads of time in this area, and we have already proposed or held a meeting in 2015 and 2016 with the assistance of the Health Committee on the issue of integrated treatment of children. I believe that this has also helped to speed things up in this area. As far as we're concerned. In Slovenia, early treatment of children with developmental disorders is regulated only by the Health and Health Insurance Act, which does not specify what this treatment covers, how it is organised and how it is accessible. In practice, this aid is mostly carried out by healthcare homes. In Slovenia we do not yet have clear system arrangements for early treatment of children with special needs, but we do have different forms of early treatment, which are not conceptually and functionally related. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we agree that early treatment is the most important in the development of a child with special needs, but also of course for others, and it must then be addressed with particular care and integrity. Early treatment of children can prevent many problems further, i.e. during the school period and in later periods of life. The proposed law identifies the shortcomings of early treatment of children with special needs in the preschool age. As a severe obstacle, it lists waiting types for developmental outpatients and proposes to transform them into development centres. Thus, between the objectives, for example, the conversion of development ambulances to early treatment centres within a network that will be publicly accessible and regionally distributed; the provision of integrated treatment for children with special needs, for children with risk factors and their families from birth to entry into school – for example, early treatment services, the creation of multi-disciplinary teams and the identification of their tasks -; the integration of early treatment centres with professionals in kindergartens, social work centres and so on. I don't think there's eleven goals listed so I won't list all of them. All we can say in general is that they are not in line with the existing Child Guidance Act with special needs, as this law already regulates the existence of child guidance centres with special needs. In addition, the current law deals with these children from the point of view of the functioning of everyday life in the family and the main part of the worker in educational institutions, kindergartens or schools. The law basically treats a person as an entity, an active and learning creature and from this function is looking for the best therapeutic solutions for a child. The proposed law, however, treats the child from the point of view of a doctor, a therapist, or treatment facility. In our view, it is pointless to have two laws and two completely different approaches for one person. We advocate early treatment, which helps a person in his active functionality, in active life and learning, where therapy is only part of this treatment and assistance, and the second part is learning how to live and learn. We believe that some good solutions would make sense to integrate into the existing law on children with special needs. For example, the proposed law introduces new centres, which is a duplication for us, because the centres already exist under the ZUPP. As an example, let me say, for example, the Center Cirius Kamnik in Vipava, which includes treatment and education. It would also be appropriate to include preschool children. Teams in these institutions include both educators, teachers, pediatricians, doctors, specialists. What is really necessary is the extension of their exposures, of course, which would allow reasonable local accessibility for all children, but in particular for preschools. Thus, the tasks of such centres could be enlargement, such as ensuring the integrated treatment of children with special needs for children with risk factors and their families from birth to completion of schooling and career guidance, identifying treatment services from early treatment to guidance in kindergarten, school and vocational guidance, linking a pediatrician and guidance for early monitoring and assistance to the family and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that existing resources and capacities and knowledge must be exploited, as proper allocation would aim to help children and adults with special needs while at the same time not raising the costs of services. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, although we believe it would be more reasonable to correct and improve the existing Child Guidance Act with special needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u12	Dear President! Colleagues and colleagues! Before I present the position of the Desus Group, I will join my colleague, Jelka Godec, and I am outraged that today there are not any representatives of the three ministries covered by this law. This is an expression of incredible disrespect both signed by Jelka Godec and 67 co-signers of this bill and the entire National Assembly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u13	Dr. Murglov was the first to sign.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u14	Dr. Murgle, I'm sorry, I'm a little angry and upset about what happened. For we are the ones who are enacting laws in this country, but in the ministries there are those who have to implement them and I assure you that they will have to do so. In Slovenia, care for children with special institutional needs is organised in the form of a network of health institutions and child care institutions. Those who have never had personal experience therefore imagine that adequate care should be provided within this network to ensure that children receive sufficient early, quality, regular and frequent treatment and that their families receive adequate support. The reality is quite different. A family with one or more children with special needs often remains alone, without real information about mental and material distress, isolated from society, with the stigma prescribed to their child by society. Parents themselves carry the terrible burden of anxiety, self - perceptions, translate them into a spectrum of emotions, and seek answers to questions that often do not have answers. As parents often encounter misunderstandings in health and social welfare institutions, they seek support from NGOs, which in the field of child care with a number of special needs, but also these NGOs are not all-powerful, all-knowing and often too limited by financial means, so that they can always effectively jump to help. The fact is that every child with special needs has its own needs, its own challenges and its own pace of development, so it often happens that children with similar diagnostics cannot be helped in the same way as parents and caregivers are still under pressure. All of us who have ever met in the field of dealing with children with special needs, one through personal experience, another through professional experience or just because of empathy, have repeatedly warned that we urgently need a well-organised, multidisciplinary, family-oriented early treatment of this group of children. While developing outpatients, specialised outpatients and developmental wards are trying to cover the early-treatment programme, they are limited to occasional checks and development controls, which is usually not sufficient. Someone described working with children with special needs as a marathon — progressing slowly, with small steps, no rest, and therefore more occasional examinations are usually not helpful. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is necessary to adopt a specific law that will clearly and specifically define the early treatment of children with special needs, ensure the right to early and quality multidisciplinary treatment, identify beneficiaries, scope and services in the community and commit competent authorities to develop a comprehensive and sustainable early treatment system. For these reasons, we have also contributed signatures under the law. By adopting the law, we believe that we will provide modern, integrated and sustainable forms of early treatment for children with special needs and for their families, at least partially eliminating the backlog compared to other EU Member States, where such a programme has been known and implemented for many years. Early support for children of this group is urgently needed because early childhood intensive brain development, which lasts up to the age of six, ensures the acceleration of the development of the child with developmental backlogs and reduces the possibility of developing their permanent special needs. Appropriate early treatment also brings benefits for later life, as it reduces the need for special education, the likelihood of institutionalisation and ensures the development of the capacity for as independent and independent a life in society as possible. What surprised us at the drafting of the bill was the opinion of the Ministry of Health, which points out that the term “child with special needs” does not exist at all in the treatment of disease situations. There may not be an expression, but children exist, no matter what we call them. This seems unacceptable to us from the Ministry, which should play one of the leading roles in the early treatment of children. Moreover, the Ministry of Health even believes that we do not need any specific legislation for children with special needs. When a person reads such a position, he understands why an autistic child has to wait more than two years for a dentist; not just an autistic one, this applies to all children with special needs. You can probably imagine the damage, in a particular case only on teeth, caused by such a long waiting period — in most cases irreparable. In our parliamentary group, unlike the Ministry of Health, we believe that a special law is needed, namely the one before us. With it, we will allow for an integrated treatment in the multidisciplinary teams, children and families will receive the necessary support, even if the family wants it, which is called a family representative in the bill, and will have a personal experience in the field of early child treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u15	Before I give the floor forward, let me explain very clearly before the debate begins, the government will be defined or we will wait as long as the government does not come here. [[advertising from the hall]] No, we will not continue the debate until the government gets here, in some way it has to be put in this place. [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u16	President, I'd like to request a suspension of this meeting in 20 minutes. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 235 refer to the cooperation of the Government with the National Assembly. As the coalition also points out, it is unacceptable that in presenting this law, which is so important for children with special needs, prepared by colleague Murgel, the Government is not present to express its views before the views of other parliamentary groups. I'm asking for the suspension of the meeting in 20 minutes for the government to join us, if not the ministers, and the representatives of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u17	First of all, I must say that I cannot give the Government a word between the parliamentary positions, because we are already at this point, that is clear, I can give it after what was first in the debate, and then it will have to be defined from the bench, not as usual when there are views. The fact is, okay, I'm hearing another motion before I make a final decision. [[…]] Mr. Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. My procedural proposal would be similar. I propose that if it is impossible for the Government to present its position during the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, if there are no representatives of the ministry until then, then after the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, we should stop and wait for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u19	Another procedural proposal, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u20	Dear President! Whether we're in a position or we're in a coalition, it doesn't matter. The fact is, the National Assembly simply cannot afford to deal with laws that those benches are empty. Who, then, do we represent our views? For who? For no one? I'm sorry, but the government needs to hear, especially when it comes to the law. You know why? Because they are not proposing this law and they need to be defined and they also need to hear presentations of the views of the groups. The only effective means is to stop immediately and simply make it clear where the government should sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u21	I think I'm gonna break up with the government coming here. Otherwise, they keep telling me they're on their way, but they've been telling me they're on their way for a long time. So I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. Continue at 9:00 and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u22	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. Because I broke it off at that point, because there was no government presence, I'm also going to take a lease on the fact that yesterday the government was in this system and was waiting for the marriage to come up, and today, unfortunately, there was a misunderstanding. I hope that we can now continue in the same style as we actually have to in a parliamentary law like this, which would not have been created without the cooperation of the Government, and yet I have to admit this openly, and I have also learned this from the proposing woman herself. The government will get the floor from all these parliamentary positions at the beginning of the debate and will give its opinion, so that all procedural conditions and substantive democratic debates are met. That is why the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u23	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! We have before us the Law on Early Treatment of Children with Special Needs, for which we are already looking forward to the end of the legislative process and the start of application. All those who have any connection with children with special needs and who have been professionally involved with them or through NGOs are particularly aware of the urgent need for this law. This area is not systematically regulated as early support for newborns and young children is scattered across different institutions. Parents travel from specialist to specialist, at longer intervals, meaning that they do not receive timely and, above all, appropriate systematic treatments, nor do they receive instructions to deal with such assistance to the children in need. At the same time, an expert and continuous comprehensive treatment of the child will enable the child to develop his or her abilities better and prevent problems from escalating. Developed countries have had this area regulated for decades, and it is high time for us to join it, as a study of early treatment of children with special needs in EU Member States has shown that Slovenia is the only member who does not have this programme prescribed by law. Article 26 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation, which obliges our country to ensure that, as far as possible, people with disabilities live independent and healthy lives, that rehabilitation is ensured at the earliest possible stage and is based on a multidisciplinary assessment of the needs and ability of each individual to be as close to the home of the user and his family as possible, that staff are qualified to provide quality services and that adequate facilities are available. The right to early treatment and multi-disciplinary permanent treatment is, in principle, enshrined in Article 12 of the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, but this legal norm has not yet been fulfilled for us. We therefore need a specific law that will clearly and concretely define early treatment, ensure the right to this treatment, identify beneficiaries, the extent and services of the community and oblige decision makers to develop a comprehensive and permanent early treatment system. For more than 20 years, NGOs have been working for a well-organised multi-disciplinary and family-oriented early treatment of this group of children, but failing because it always stops at money. But this law is absolutely necessary. In Slovenia, there are about 400 000 children between the ages of zero and 19 years of age and almost 10 to 15 children have special needs or different forms of developmental disturbance. So, finally, the law is before us. We will, of course, support it in our parliamentary group, because it is imperative that we address this grey fox properly and take a step forward together. The purpose of the law is to connect existing assistance in Slovenia into a single system and to complement it with the most substantive activities within the treatment of the smallest children, not focusing only on the child, but also on the entire family in which the child lives. It is very important that the pool of experts in the development clinic is expanded and multi-disciplinary approaches addressed. Of course, early marriage will not solve all the problems and challenges faced by people with special needs and their parents, but it certainly gives more than what we have now. In the initial phase of the pilot project, it is envisaged that a network of nine early-treatment centres will be provided and that, in the further phase, better accessibility and regional distribution will require treatment in all 21 outpatients. The establishment of early treatment centres will enable parents to get better acquainted with and empower their child’s entire treatment and support as soon as possible. Psychosocial assistance is of paramount importance to the family, which the law foresees, since parents are often left to themselves and especially lack the attention and assistance of experts. Family representatives selected from NGOs will also be a great help to families. According to our parliamentary group, the law is very broad and well established, but it needs the support of all three ministries; both health, education and social. Each of them must take up his share in behalf of those to whom the law is addressed. The Early Treatment Act is intended for the integrated treatment of children during the period when it is possible to achieve the most in its development. What is lost during this development period can have difficult remedial consequences in later life. We must be aware of the need to invest in prevention, as underdevelopment is not necessarily a permanent situation and early identification, treatment and timely action are essential to prevent further underdevelopment. Promoting child development in the earliest years means much more than that. It means that certain children will have far fewer problems in later development periods, to be able to develop skills and functional skills that will help them to a greater degree of autonomy and to enter the social and educational process more easily. For all of this, we will, of course, support in our Group the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u24	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we support this bill. We agree with the proposaler that the quality and comprehensive early treatment of development problems is of paramount importance for the further development of the child. In the early stages of the child, it is possible to achieve the greatest progress and developmental breakthroughs, so quality assistance to children and parents is essential for later optimal development. The quality and comprehensive early treatment of children with special needs also reduces the later costs associated with special regular education, institutionalisation and social distress of families. It is crucial that the problems identified in early childhood development do not contribute to the discrimination and exclusion of children from regular education. Here, too, we agree with the view that socio-economic factors condition the various challenges of children's disability and lead to inequalities in health. By improving services and making early recognition, treatment and integrated assistance available to children with developmental disorders and their parents, equality and social justice are ensured to the greatest extent possible. The existing arrangements for the development of outpatients have proved to be insufficient in practice. Due to its professional limitations, the scope of the aid has also been limited, and professional work has sometimes proved inadequate, which has also led to dissatisfaction on the part of parents. We therefore support the upgrading of the current system of development ambulances into a publicly accessible and regionally distributed network of early treatment centres. As an important aspect of the upgrade, we focus on upgrading existing working groups with psychologists, educators and social workers. The current early treatment focuses in particular on the health care of the child and does not include social protection and assistance to parents. Well, this current proposal provides for the creation of multidisciplinary teams capable of comprehensive diagnostics of child development disorders on the one hand and assistance to the family on the other. The proposal enjoys broad support both in the National Assembly and in civil society. It has also been co-designed and supported by disability societies, which believe that early treatment centres, as envisaged by the proposal, will provide regular systematic and multidisciplinary treatment for children and their social environment. Since the proposal is also consistent with the competent ministries, we see no reason why the law would not live well in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u26	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u27	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague, colleague, proposer! In Slovenia, after the current arrangements for early treatment of children with special needs, they are held in the development clinics, and in practice it has proved repeatedly that health workers in the development clinics are not qualified enough to help the parents of these children and to provide professional and emotional support. Early treatment should focus primarily on the family, the mother, the father and also the child, as it aims to provide optimal support for the development of children and to improve the quality of life of the family. Early treatment is the right of every family and child, and funding must be adequately addressed. The child must be adopted in his family, and the family also needs psychosocial assistance and professional support in the home environment. In Novi Slovenije we have written in our programme and, of course, we also place the family as the center and foundation of society. The family has an irreplaceable role in the upbringing of children, so all Members of the New Slovenia Group have also signed the proposal for this law. The aim of the bill is to ensure an integrated treatment of children with special needs in early treatment entry points, which is at early treatment centres. To this end, the law provides for the reinforcement of the number of health personnel and the extension of staff in these clinics by professionals who are not part of the health care system, that is, a special teacher and, where appropriate, other experts. The extended development clinics will become early-treatment centres, where children will also be treated by an expert in education and education and social workers, along with health professionals. It is proposed to deal individually with the needs of the child and the whole family by drawing up an individual assistance plan for the whole family, not just the child. Individual treatments will be carried out at an early treatment centre and others outside it, in other institutions, in particular in early treatment groups and in other institutions or institutions that are already providing early treatment services. The coordinated implementation of the Family Assistance Plan will be taken care of by the coordinator, who will connect the Early Treatment Centre, kindergarten, the Centre for Social Work and other institutions dealing with children or families. The coordinator will also inform the family of the various forms of assistance available to him, in particular in the area of social protection. In the New Slovenia Group, we really hope that in these 21 envisaged outpatients the treatment will be quick and effective and parents will not feel alone and alone, that they must look for and open doors to all institutions, but really to get service in one place, help in one place. In caring for children with special needs, it is essential that their problems or special needs be identified as soon as possible and that appropriate assistance be provided to children and parents as soon as possible, so that we will unanimously support the proposal of the New Slovenia Group. In Novi Slovenije we are pleased that, following the unanimously adopted Personal Assistance Act submitted by Members of New Slovenia, we are now considering the law on integrated and early treatment of preschool children with special needs and we want to be supported by all members of the National Assembly. We are also prepared to participate actively in the preparation of the Long-Term Care Act. However, the package of adoption of all three laws will allow for an integrated treatment, social security and human dignity for anyone who already needs or will need it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u28	Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dear fellows and fellows, a very nice greeting to all! Let today's debate on the law on the comprehensive early treatment of preschool children with special needs begin with a song by Drobtinica Toneta Pavčka. It goes like this: "You're in the world to look at the sun. You're in the world to follow the sun. You are in the world, that the sun itself, and that you cast away the shadow from the world." If you ask your children’s parents with special needs, there is little to say that they have a special sun at home; the sun that shined after their parents overcame the shadows, the shadows, doubt, worries all the way to disappointment. And that is the essence of the law that we are considering today; that we as a society help our parents to deal with all the emotions and efforts they face in raising and caring children with special needs. For even more than children, proper family guidance is needed to be in harmony with their child’s differences and to be able to support him in his life and development. As everything in society changes, it is fortunate that the attitude toward the different people who have special needs also changes. In ancient Greece and up to the 18th century, children and adults, if they had survived childhood at all, were ridiculed, pushed to the social side; in short, they were left to themselves. Since the 18th century, institutions have been established where people with mental disabilities have received medical treatment, but they have been institutionalized mainly for the sake of public peace as a means of assistance. Organised care for children with special needs in Slovenia has grown intensely since World War II. Initially, the curriculum for schools was adapted, and only in the second half of the 20th century did developmental kindergartens occur. And it looks like we're back at the turning point. There is an increasing number of speeches among experts about the treatment of not only a child but also a family with special needs. In practice, it appears that the family is the first and most important factor that stimulates or inhibits the development of children with their views on life and activity. Around the world, children with special needs, together with their families, are already receiving multi-disciplinary early treatment, and we also want to follow these trends in the Slovenian space and this initiative, and we also support them in the Group of Non-Related Members. The Law on Integrated Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs changes its approach to children with special needs and their families. From the multi-disciplinary teams just mentioned, which will be available to the family and its specificities from the start, to the integration of NGOs with a rich practice in helping families with children with special needs. To this end, the law allows every family under consideration to have two advisers, the family representative and the family coordinator. The representative of the family will be from non-governmental organisations. The condition stated by the law is that it is someone who is also the parent of a child with special needs or risk factors. Its task will be to provide emotional, moral, and psychological support to the family and to mediate between the family and the profession. In addition, he provides for the law of the co-ordinator of the family, who will be a member of the multi-disciplinary team. Lawmakers propose that it be from an area where the family will be most in need of assistance. The coordinator will take care of the implementation of an individual plan designed by a multidisciplinary team. Given that the tasks of the representative and the coordinator will be intertwined and will interact several times in the same areas where the family will need support, we hope in our Group that their work and attitude towards professional decisions will be unified and coordinated, even though the family representative is meant as an independent person. At least what we would like is for the family to face new dilemmas, where the representative and coordinator of the various opinions on how to deal with the child and the family will take place. We understand that the bill's proponents wanted to provide families with the strongest and most numerous support, but the fact that, by the amount of involvement of different people, including a pediatrician, a educator and an expert group in kindergarten, there is also a growing diversity of views and opinions on the same subjects. Help to the family must be coordinated, different professional opinions should not be resolved within the family, but rather before contacting them. The next dilemma we have in our parliamentary group is the composition of the Government's Coordination Council. Due to the difficulty of dealing with children or families with children with special needs, it is mentioned in the law that three ministries will participate: the Ministry responsible for social affairs, health and education. It is absolutely essential that they participate in the consideration of experts from their field and that this cooperation of ministries is necessary. However, we have concerns that the Government's Coordination Council is composed only of ministers. So there are no representatives of non-governmental organisations, i.e. practitioners, in the roof body, which will monitor the implementation of early treatment and where important decisions will be taken to further develop work in this area. The law has given NGOs an important role and has put the Government's partner's position in the early treatment of children with special needs, and we believe that such institutions should also be members of the Coordination Council. Regardless of these dilemmas, we will support the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, because we believe that it is for such human and charitable work as working with children with special needs and their families, working for people who strive for ever better practice and will be motivated by the law to join forces to help children and families. Finally, I would like to expand my view of today's subject. The present law focuses on the treatment of preschool children, but as every child grows up, children with special needs grow up. Among them are those who, despite their differences, want to do some work. Some are able to do more than routine work, and because of their shortcomings, they have lost their jobs or are sentenced only to monotonous labor. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we would also like to support a government proposal that will also provide for adults with special needs to be included in society and to stay as an equal part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u30	Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u31	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Today, at the initiative of 61 members of the esteemed National Assembly, we are considering the proposal for a law on the integrated early treatment of preschool children with special needs, which is a very important milestone for ensuring adequate treatment of people with special needs in society. The comprehensive early treatment of children — not just preschools, but all — with special needs is not properly regulated today. Unfortunately, the current picture is such that persons with special needs do not receive satisfactory medical care or care to meet their needs. They are also more difficult to integrate into the education system, which also puts them in a deprived position with regard to employment opportunities or the possibility of receiving higher incomes, while high financial expenditure on personal support, health services and various medical devices remains. The main substantive solutions provided for in the bill relate to the provision of early-treatment services and the conversion of developmental outpatients to early-treatment centres where multi-disciplinary teams will work: a medical pediatrician, a graduate nurse, a mid-term nurse, a neurophysiother, a working therapist, a clinical therapist, a clinical psychologist, a specialist pedagogist and a social worker. Among other things, the proposal also provides for the identification of early-treatment service providers and their connection through the assistance coordinator to the family, the way in which they are identified and sent to the early-treatment centre, the provision of assistance to parents with family representatives, the identification of possible content of the individual assistance plan to the family, the integration of the early-treatment centre with kindergarten professionals and social work centres, and the abolition of guidance procedures for pre-school children. This means that the proposal for a law following the recommendations of the World Health Organization for children with special needs and for children with risk factors and their families during the preschool period provides and upgrades health, social protection and education services. Persons with special needs, with additional emphasis on pre-school children, will have new access to all systems and services that will enable them to develop adequately, to have full access to health, education and education services and to social protection services. Since integrated treatment reduces the likelihood of later institutionalisation of these people, as it also provides the basis for developing their capacities for as independent a life in society as possible, we will support the SMC proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u32	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Ms Andrej Barle Lakota spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much, chairman. First, I owe you an apology. Untimely participation is not due to the underestimation of the work of Members or this specific law, but obviously we want to do too much at the same time in the short term. Indeed, the Ministry’s support for this law is demonstrated by all the efforts we have made at the time of the drafting of this law. What was it, exactly? The first-signed group of Members, Dr. Clearly Murgel, who submitted to the National Assembly for consideration the Proposal for a Law on the Integral Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs, has done enormous work, although it seemed that the things regulated by the law were already being regulated. Indeed, a few discussions were that the law actually regulates something that has three areas, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs, already regulated. Therefore, what the law really brings and what is the specificity of this law and the added value of this law is, in fact, a framework, a definition of the comprehensive early treatment of children with special needs. What the law really brings is that three systems, namely education, social and health, are linked to an integrated treatment, so that parents do not have to move from one system to another and thus introduce some uncertainty that parents have warned them about. It is said that the law actually entails ensuring the integrated treatment and integration of all these three systems, in fact the definition of this area and the definition of services that are placed in early treatment, methods of identification and referral, establishing a system that enables the establishment of multi-disciplinary teams. This is what has not been and has not yet been, and in particular ensures that not only children are being treated, but a family is being considered; therefore, that family is the one who obtains individual services. That is why we believe that the law is one of those who can actually help children to be treated early, which, of course, will affect their whole life and the ability to integrate into systems, including the education and education system. As a result, the Ministry of Education was particularly interested in the adoption of the law. It is therefore a matter of upgrading existing systems so that they are truly large and often interconnected systems in whole, ensuring quality treatment of children. That is why the Government fully supports the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u34	The representative of the proposers shall have the floor. Dr. Jasna Murgel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. If anyone has participated in the drafting of this law, this is no doubt the Ministry of Education and also to all those who have participated here, I thank you now. The Minister has undoubtedly supported this issue from the very beginning, and as we have heard, the whole Government supports it. Let me say what I consider to be one important acquisition of the law is the definition of those entities – I cannot say otherwise as a lawyer – of those children to whom this law applies. It is essential that we have not, as it may have been in the case of, say, the Personal Assistance Act, somehow covered the narrower circle to which the law applies, and it is essential that this is a general group. The law defines children with risk factors and children with special needs. We have already mentioned how these numbers are moving in some way, i.e. the general validity, in general, a group of children who have these risk factors or special needs and therefore there is no specific group that would now fall under this law. We have quite a few problems and dilemmas that occur, say, within the framework of the Children's Guidance Act with special needs, where specific groups are defined and then there is always a problem whether you belong to that group now or not, whether you have treatment or not, but this is another area. What's important here is that we say that it's essentially an extension of the developmental outpatients that already exist. When we started talking to the ministry, too, what would be the best solution, where the entry point for this early treatment centre would be, I found after talking to the ministry, the Ministry of Health in particular, that we should take advantage of what we have. These are development ambulances and these work in some places better, in some worse places, in some places they are more sophisticated by this, in some places not, but by insistence – and I must say so – the Ministry of Health in particular was that the point of entry must be an outpatient. We could not agree otherwise here, because if we set up some new centres and reshape and work some new centre, this would be linked to too much costs, organisational problems. Thus, the minimum that we wanted to achieve under this law is that, in order to expand the development clinics and become centres, they are renamed early treatment centres, and above all, how many of these development ambulances will actually be – that is to say, how many development ambulances will be expanded – has been decided by the Ministry of Health in agreement with the other two ministries, i.e. for work and for education. The aim was to extend not only health workers in this early treatment centre, but also other workers, i.e. in the field of special and rehabilitation pedagogy and social workers, to ensure a multi-disciplinary or multi-disciplinary treatment, so that it is not only an emphasis on health, but to extend and obtain a team that will treat the child and the family as a whole. Children with special needs or children with different factors do not have only health problems or things to deal with and deal with, but they also go to other areas of life. As I always say, children and families are one and we cannot dismember them in these three areas. For a very long time, there has been a confirmed proposal for an extended professional study on paediatrics, which, somehow like this law, provides for the expansion of teams in development clinics, but this proposal has never been implemented. So we've taken advantage of what already exists and where children with special needs are being treated already. The aim was to minimise turbulence and some reorganisations, because we have a lot of them, and in the end, even with this proposal, it would be very difficult for us to succeed if we now set and redirect some new centres somewhere else, we wanted to take advantage of what exists. I mean, I am sure that if these early-treatment clinics or centres are extended, as envisaged, it will, of course, be because more health personnel, more physiotherapists, neurophysical therapists, more working therapists and other experts are expected to be able to deal with these children alone. So, the acquisition is, many of you have already mentioned in the presentation of the views that an individual plan for the family will be developed. This is what is important; that it is not only an emphasis on the treatment of the child, but at the consideration of the entire family, which will have the support of this centre, it will have one centre to which it will be able to address and to this coordinator, who will be an expert, part of this multi-disciplinary team and will be able to address it at any time and will then provide further contact with the centres for social work and kindergarten and any other operators to be identified in the individual early-treatment plan. I think it's very important that what I mentioned at the outset is this connection that we have a gravity center, an early treatment centre that will be linked to everything that is going on with this child and this family. I am sure that this solution will enable the family to feel and that it will also actually be so; that it will have someone, one centre to turn to and where they can gravity and where children from the various institutions they deal with can from the family, hospitals from anywhere, that they will always have this centre, that they can turn to it, and where all things cannot be prescribed, then, of course, the sub-legal acts will be needed, but it will be easier for the coordinator and members of this team to call, I don't know, to the centre for social work, to kindergarten, to say, see, this is not done well, whether we can be aligned, we can connect, we can do as much as possible, in fact, to do what is the aim of early treatment and then also to deal with the children with specific needs, that the plan that is envisaged for the child. [[…]] The integration of these three areas, kindergartens, social work centres and this early treatment centre, into which everything will be gravity, as I said, is essential. The representative of the family is something we've talked about a lot, but when I'm also talking about the round tables, I'm still invited on a lot of round tables about this law to introduce it, and it's a response to this family representative, I have to say, very good, because they're all somehow united in the assessment that someone who needs one experience with this child with special needs, someone who has a similar experience. Now, this issue will have to be settled by means of a sub-legislative act for which it is responsible, the institution of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in such a way as to establish a single list of family representatives from which the family will be able to choose it from if it so wishes. If she doesn't want it, she won't, but it's also a way to get some NGOs involved in this system, because they're already there, they're busy, they have a lot of early treatment experience. But it will not be a work relationship, it will be a contractual relationship with the minimum costs for a few hours a month and that is, I think it will be possible for parents to have a contact person who at personal, human level understands them because they have already experienced this situation, and also somehow to process things that perhaps someone with whom at the beginning, which is understandable, cannot yet accept matters – whatever. I think that this is also a welcome thing – because I have such an experience myself that, for example, because there was no place to turn, I turned to the Sun Society, Maribor, and got some psychological support there. We have also tried to ensure the cooperation and coordination of all three ministries in the law, which is somehow necessary, because we are talking all the time and the basic reason for this law being created – in addition to the fact that some elements exist and need to be upgraded, such as these development ambulances – in addition to the fact that these elements exist, they need to be linked. Let us be clear and conclude that this integration and cooperation between ministries in this area is less than absolutely necessary – how best to express myself. So we have provided for legal cooperation between ministers covering the areas. Why? Because ministers are the ones who make decisions in their own departments. We predicted that they should sign an agreement on how these things are being implemented. In addition, we have foreseen that the ministries will also identify interdisciplinary training of experts. The law, it's a lot of people asking me if you'll provide enough experts with this law. We cannot guarantee it through this law, education of experts, because then it also interferes with different areas. It is clear that there is a shortage of neurophysical therapists, logopedists and other experts, but if we give at least one framework to the ministries, that, together with the other levers they can use, will affect this if we give one framework in the law, we will start this process in order, hopefully, to better ensure the education of the staff in this area, which are urgently needed. That's kind of what it would be, then I'll continue to say, given today's debate on what's going to happen. [[...]] That's all I'm saying. When we started or started working on this marriage, the desires were very great to arrange for early treatment or as well as comprehensive treatment, multi-disciplinary, and from birth to 26 years, because the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs goes up to 26 years of age, through age. Why would they do that now? Then we found that when I do some work, it was easy and also clear to myself whether it was possible to achieve a specific goal in real time. If we go to repair, change the whole child guidance system with special needs, there are too many stakeholders here that should be affected. Let's just say we should deal with minimum educational standards and I don't know what else is going on with regular education, including children with special needs and all the other children. It would simply be too much for us to regulate the whole system, because there is one law that we could not actually deal with. However, this law, which is also based on a pilot project on early treatment of children with special needs, which is carried out by the Ministry of Health, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, for work, family and social affairs, which is being implemented 1. 7th this year and will be implemented in the Eastern and Western region, is the basis for determining in this preschool period, which is also the most sensitive and needs connections, whether this model, when we test it in the pilot project and start implementing the law, or whether this model of early treatment and treatment in multi-disciplinary teams that exist in certain centres and are stationary – these are not some committees that meet as necessary – or whether this child guidance system with special needs may be upgraded in a similar way. But now it is too early to deal with the whole range of education and education. I think that we need to make a good foundation here now in the framework of early treatment, make sure that we test these things, whether they work, and then move on to the system. Therefore, the pre-school period has been taken into account since it is still too early for any definitive diagnosis, and it is possible to diagnose children with special needs and risk factors after this pre-school period. The model is designed to be tested first by a pilot project. It is designed to connect all services that exist and upgrade some. It is particularly important to point out that, since 2019, when the law enters into force, these departments will no longer be co-financed by the municipalities by the adapted programmes, but will be financed by the State from then on – that is approximately €800 per year – and from then on it will also be possible to distribute these departments more evenly across the country. What is meant by this law is the addition, addition to some services and reinforcement of teams, to provide more opportunities for the provision of services. It is not now a magic wand that will repair the entire early treatment and possibly even the inclusion of children with special needs, but it is an important foundation on which we can assess the treatment not only of children but, very important, of families as well, and then find out whether these things can be tolerated further, these good experiences that we will get in this area, and then build the matter further, for the following periods. I agree, we are doing these things in Slovenia with regard to persons with special needs, by adopting one law and adopting another law, and we are doing a little bit of repair and another law. A strategy should be adopted. I know that people do not like certain strategies and words in general, but a serious strategy, as we have also found in discussions with experts, what we want to do with the person we find to have special needs, from birth to death. So, first of all, we will deal with it early, now we have children's orientation with special needs, which also has its own good points. I am always grateful that this procedure is that we have it because I have very good experience with it, but there is also a need for improvement. After we leave education, with different levels or educational standards; then what happens to these people: whether they are employed, how they can or cannot – this is the subject of, say, the Social Inclusion Act – that we have a system that we want to do with these people. This would be absolutely necessary and very welcome, and we will continue to work on it. But today we are in the general discussion of one urgent step that we need to have, and I am glad that the vast majority of you agree that this marriage is necessary. What you will say today, of course, will be taken into account – this is the general debate that is intended – to complement and correct the law, take into account the proposals. This is about a large number of children and their families. It is important that we talk about this and also find a common language and perhaps some other repairs, that the matter is actually good for everyone and actually feasible and has an effect on children, for people; what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u36	The word has Mrs. Janja Slug, prepare to be mag. Bojana Muršič and Mr Joseph Horvat. Mrs. Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Yes, finally, we can say that today we have this marriage on the table, colleague Jasna has worked for him for a long time. I attended something like she tells them, round tables and talks on this subject, and I heard all these opinions, all these suggestions, all these impatient expectations that we would finally get the issue on our bench. I am also pleased with the cooperation of the Ministry of Labour, which, according to my colleague, was clear, constructive, as well as each of the 68 signatures under this law. This is once again a story where we somehow combined our powers together, and I think, as I have told many times in similar cases, that this is the right way and the right way. As Jasna said, there is no way to say that we have none of what we now accept in Slovenia. Of course, there are some things, but there are also more and more children with such and different developmental disorders with some, I will say, additional needs and this number is unfortunately growing. What are the reasons for this, it would be a shame to lose words in this place. But the fact is that from the first moment on, from birth onward, such children need some special protection, special care and some additional incentives to make up for this other deficit somehow. Here, of course, the profession agrees that this response, which is dealt with as soon as possible for each child, is very important, is said as early as possible. Here is also the essential point of this text that we have on the table today. What else is important in this whole discussion? It is important to consider the whole family. So not just a child, as so far as everything has been focused on a child, but also on parents and possibly relatives, who, of course, face some issues, some problems, and so on. I'm glad this marriage is settled as it is. Otherwise, as Jasna said, we'd like to take one step to resolve the whole thing. This is where he concentrates on the time before he enters school, but he has to start somewhere. I think that this is already an important step forward, given what has been said today and how we have information from the field. The colleague had to write even a guide on the rights of the children, which already says a lot about the very state in which the matter is at present. I hope that after the adoption of this regulation, we will no longer need this guide or will no longer need it. What's the most important thing? The fact that all these areas that I've listed are connected. To focus everything on one place, on one entry point where parents turn, where they get all the information they need, all the support they need, where they also get someone who speaks for them and for them. So, the essential thing is that they don't deal with the matter on their own, but that they have someone who does it for them and instead of them. Some of the points we've had so far, as Jasna also said, say, there's no way to put it out of thin air. Of course, it is reasonable to use what already exists and what we already have and come out of it. This is why these existing clinics will be transformed into early-treatment centres, where they will be monitored, as I said, and the child and the entire family individually, with an individual plan, with a family representative and with a coordinator. However, the task of the coordinator is to connect all stakeholders, to connect with the kindergarten, to the competent centre for social work and to monitor, coordinate, and, if you wish, to promote, at certain times, measures relating to this child or this family. It is important that this multi-disciplinary team will be composed of exactly those experts that we hear and talk about today, that they may not be accessible to every child, that they are already involved elsewhere, and that is a specialist pediatrician, a graduate nurse, a middle nurse, a neurophysic therapist, a working therapist, a clinical speech therapist, a clinical psychologist, a special teacher and so on. These are the profiles that we are hearing today that are sometimes not included, that they are not missing, and this is the essential leap that will mean — I think — an upgrade to what we have today and a significant improvement in the quality of services and treatment offered to an individual child or family. The text itself also identifies service providers that are connected through the coordinators – and we do not have that today, and we also feel very important – and at the same time define early treatment services that we do not have anywhere today. The Centre for Early Treatment, as I said, connects with both kindergarten and the competent centre for social work. That's all I could say under the line. I think that this is an important step forward for our children, for all our children, essential assistance to parents, essential assistance to the whole family, where they will really find everything in one place. Where they will be able to express their needs, their wishes, where they can participate in the design of the programme, may be encouraged, may also be redirected at a certain point, but all in discussions with all these experts, in discussions with the coordinator and in cooperation as we would like in several other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u38	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Prepare Mr. Joseph Horvath and the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! Good bye to all of you! First of all, I would like to point out that the integrated treatment of children in preschool education is still important and more than necessary, since after more than 20 years of efforts by NGOs to regulate this area at the legal level, it is therefore particularly commendable for the applicant to finally face this very difficult task and to begin to harmonise this law with the competent ministries. I must say that I thank the Ministry of Education for taking over this law, even though I must regret that the actual Ministry of Health in this place has not shown sufficient understanding to take it under its wing. Why do I think so? I think that health care is really the key. Before the baby is born, he is actually accompanied by a medical institution. Then, at the birth of the child, we immediately know or assess the health care provider’s condition. It seems to me that this area of early childhood education would somehow fall under the Ministry of Health, but it is certainly very commendable that it also belongs to the Ministry of Education, as children continue to be involved in this system of preschool education, in kindergarten treatment, from 11 months onwards. I think that's good, too. Of course, it is also important to include the Ministry of Social Affairs in this place, but unfortunately I must mention that, although these three ministries will be involved, the Ministry of Finance is also crucial, at least in my opinion, as long as the Ministry of Finance does not provide the additional resources that we will need for more physicists, working therapists, psychologists, therapists, logopedists, then something can happen to us soon, that this law remains dead on paper, because I do not want to, and as a colleague in the position of the parliamentary groups, we will not allow it. At the outset, the proposer mentioned that the project is taking very personally, because the mother of two children with special needs and everything from birth faces problems and how she knows that inclusion is still important. It is not possible to overlook that more than 400,000 such children are in Slovenia, so it is so important that this law is also adopted as soon as possible, to strengthen the family's ability to face such problems in order to ensure children's personal development, and also crucial: to promote the social inclusion of the child as well as the integrated family. Unfortunately, Slovenia is the only member of the European Union that does not have it on a legal level, although we do have certain provisions in the Disability Equalization Act, but this standard has not yet been implemented in our country. In the past, the early treatment programme focused solely on the child himself and on the assistance provided by individual experts. While the starting point is very encouraging, it allows the child to develop his or her abilities better and also prevents and prevents the individual problems that arise at birth, but we must approach them with all the activities to try to solve the problems. It is indeed an important early treatment, as children’s brains develop most by the age of 6, but we must not forget, and this law is also intended to include the entire family in which the child lives in this programme. Families should assist in the adoption of new circumstances at the time of their child’s birth. We have no idea what to do with such a family when such a child is born. It is set before the fact that the child will have to be brought up in one way or another, but there is little or no help in the current system, and the Sonic Society and the Sunshine Society have been very helpful to these families. Many times the blame is sought on the parents themselves, what has happened to the child’s birth, so it is all the more important that we help such parents to put them on real ground, to offer them support, to accept the child’s difference, and to help them in these most difficult moments. Of course, children are our greatest wealth, no matter what they are, so parents need to be helped, so I once again welcome this proposal for a law. As I mentioned, the first months are the most important for the child and for the family. It is also extremely important that this psychosocial assistance to the family provided for by this law, which can rightly be expected to ease the pressure on parents at least a little. In doing so, NGOs will continue to help with all their knowledge, which has been passed on to parents in all these 20 years of their efforts to benefit them. Therefore, I must say that I have supported this law from the very beginning, but I certainly believe that it should be adopted substantially, substantially earlier, because every day, lost, in the child's life can have irreparable consequences in later life. It is therefore so important that we invest in prevention, early identification, treatment and timely action to prevent the child from falling behind in development. As I mentioned at the outset, of course it is crucial support or support for at least three ministries, health, social and education. Once again, the Ministry of Finance will play a key role here. It is important to conclude, however, that parents play the role of parents and do not play the role of a therapist, because everything is happening too often in this given situation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u40	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Alenka Bratušek in Dr. László Göncz. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to express the recognition and gratitude of our colleague, Dr Jasni Murgel, that in fact we have been linked by a large majority of parliamentarians and somehow united around the draft law on integrated early treatment of preschool children with special needs. In the criticism of my colleague Bojana Muršič to the Ministry of Health, I also add criticism to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I understand and in New Slovenia we understand that this law falls within a framework of family policies as well, and we are indeed blushing before Europe that we are the only ones who do not yet have the right way. To be not only critical, I will, of course, conclude this introduction with the praise of the Ministry of Education or the present Secretary of State Dr. Andrea Barle Lakota to take over or take over this law. I believe, somehow, I predict, even 100% support for this law. As far as New Slovenia is concerned, this has already been said. Colleagues and colleagues! I had two weddings this Saturday. I have reported two young couples, and in an informal address there is also the thought: “To create a warm home and family happiness will also help your children, who are the greatest happiness of every marriage.” Children are our greatest wealth. We don't make differences. Children are our greatest wealth and truly are, if we allow ourselves to do so, if we hope to recognize and feel that they carry far more than we can see, than anything we have seen or heard or experienced as children. The child is our greatest treasure. It's priceless. His value is infinite. Don't mind the emotional part of my speech, but when we talk about children, when we talk about children with special needs, when we talk about family, our feelings must also come into play if we want to or not. When we adopt legislation, it has to work primarily in the ratio. Early treatment of children with developmental disorders in Slovenian legislation currently regulates, but not in a satisfactory manner, only the Health and Health Insurance Act, which does not specify what the early treatment covers, how it is organised and accessible to. Of course, those who accompany us who follow this law certainly ask what the early treatment is and to whom it is intended; only a child or even a parent or a family. The European Agency for Special Needs and Inclusive Education notes that early consideration of the rights of each child is an early consideration. Every child's right! The comprehensive early treatment is intended for children with special needs and their families, as families are the ones who give a child with special needs the basic environment for development. The existing early treatment in Slovenia focuses in particular on the health care of the child and does not cover the entire family. The treatment of a child with special needs is also fragmented between different institutions which do not coordinate their activities. This law brings good solutions, but it will certainly have to be adapted, improved, based on experience, when this law is implemented. Somehow there are parallels when we consider this law, including the Personal Assistance Act, which was adopted by this National Assembly at a December session on a proposal from New Slovenia. I am pleased to know that, despite some different or very different viewpoints, there are questions, but when it comes to man, we should step together and it is a human being. What's more, it's a child with special needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, prepare Dr. László Göncz. Here you go, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you, and also, in my name, a nice greeting, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased with this unity that we can hear and see today, and I would also like this law to be adopted without a vote against it at this first reading. But even more so, I will be even more pleased when this law enters into force and somehow begins to achieve the goals that we are all talking about here today. My colleague mentioned the money earlier. I think that the country must take care of the weakest, that is its basic task – and who, if not children, are the weakest member of our society and who, if not children with special needs? So money cannot and must not be a problem; and there will be no doubt that we are not talking about hundreds of millions of euros here, we are talking about relatively small amounts if we look at the state budget. I also signed myself under the proposal of my colleague Murgel, because if I don't have children with special needs, someone knows what the family needs, what children need, and especially knows what they need today, what they should not get from what they should. I am the mother of two children without special needs, and I tell you that sometimes I have told you that it is difficult, that it is difficult and so on, but you are probably, not likely, I can't even imagine what our colleague Jasna has done to date. So, dear colleague, I was happy to sign this marriage, but someone had to make this effort, and like I said, who, if not a mother, who knows what your children need. So thank you for the initiative, the effort and – the hat down for everything done so far!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz has the word to prepare himself for Mr. Peter Wilfan. Here you go, Mr. Gönch.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, there is hardly much to add to this, which Alice Bratusek pointed out before me, since at this point it is most important that this marriage is on its way and that there is very high support for it. Let us hope that this will be the case in the further stage of adoption. In particular, I believe that in the second reading, many more substantive matters and elements will be corrected. I am also pleased with the already foretold intention that we all know together that because of the complexity of this issue and the very broad ranges of the interested professional public, it is likely that this law will not be so drunk at this stage that all issues will be definitively settled, but will be upgraded later on. At this stage, I think it is most important that these main elements be properly covered. On our part, there was no questionable support at all, given that I personally believe that it is some kind of lactose paper of society, the development of society, the progress of society, although I am aware that there is a lot of partiality in Slovenia in this area. Well, technically, maybe in one marriage it's not broken, but a lot of things are being handled properly. So we can't put Slovenia in a group of countries that are far behind in this area. However, this type of resolution, i.e. legal resolution, single resolution and this approach is undoubtedly very important. I was surprised by the information, I must admit what Mrs Murgel has said today is indirectly more than 10 per cent of the population facing this problem; not just the children, but also, taking into account the families, the family members who bear a huge burden in this regard. I would like to draw attention to just two things for further discussion. First of all, the issue of the organisation of early treatment centres has already been raised today. I know that they are trying to find existing organisations here or levers to somehow build on what is an important aspect and an important approach. I would point out only one thing – do not make this mistake to raise peripheral areas. In particular, socially weaker areas and areas where the problem, economic, social and otherwise worsens, pose an even greater burden to resolve such a problem. There, unfortunately, children can sometimes remain the most out of context, as they are called. Well, that's something I'd like to pay special attention to. I would also point out that if, at this early stage, we are solving most of the problems that we are solving, because we are all aware that there are many cases where the handicap is still huge and we will undoubtedly not be able to regulate it even professionally, but if, at this stage, a lot of things are discovered and handled properly, there is also a high probability — I know a few cases — that such people in a later life period in a wide range of areas will be able to take huge steps in the interests of society. So not only will they themselves be successful in some area, but they will make a substantial contribution to the development of the whole society. Here is this phase and this period is extremely important. I'm glad this marriage happened. I will personally express and give maximum support also during the follow-up phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Wilphan has the floor. Mr Sasa Tabakovic should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, the Ministry, which has been involved in the preparation and support of this law all the time. I therefore absolutely accept the arguments you have made regarding your absence at the beginning of this meeting. However, I still miss the representative of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, but this, I would say, says more about them than of course about us. Today I will not talk much about the content of this bill because I think that much has already been said in the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. The first-signed colleague, Jasna Murgel, has already discussed this and will certainly continue to discuss it further, and there will certainly be some such substantive discussions. What I would like to say today is, in fact, those livers and obstacles that often await such a law after leaving the parliamentary bench and this Parliament. I'll describe it on the case. In 2012, in this National Assembly, I found that we had already adopted a law on children with special needs, not us, but that this law had not actually entered into force. Of course, I immediately triggered this question, not only in my parliamentary group, but also on the committee responsible and first received the answer – do you know what kind? – that they are not prepared for professional, legal, financial and I do not know what other grounds for the law to enter into force. Then, of course, I insisted on this, and I also discussed this on the committee, and I must say that I felt that I had a lot of understanding from the members and members of this committee. In fact, in my debate, everyone was nodding. While some looked at the ground, they may have felt a little awkward, but the real shock came after the vote. Of the 18 members, I think there were 18, 16 voted against the law coming into force. Just two, me and my ex-colleague Majda Pótt, and we voted in favour. Thus, of course, the law did not enter into force in 2012. Then came 2013 and if I say so, our government. Even then, I immediately triggered, of course, this question, once again, received more or less the same answer that all of the above-mentioned bases were not yet ready. Yeah, I didn't get an answer to the question either, but who's in charge of preparing these bases? In general, to shorten, I received, among other things, one letter stating at the top: “All the negative consequences for the country that you will cause by your insistence on the entry into force of the law...” Of course I didn't give up. Finally, at some point I just got the message, yes, but the law will enter into force or enter into force. I really hope something like this doesn't happen to this law. That is why, of course, I propose or in some way commit myself to everything that is going to happen to this law after it leaves this Parliament when it is, I think, published in the Official Journal, and when it actually has to enter into force after 14 days, of course, it will follow the day. I suggest that we do this to all those who are co-signers of this proposal, as well as those who are not co-signers, and that this proposal of the law will obviously be supported. Because it is important that we not only talk here about how we support it, but that the law, as soon as possible, actually begins to be implemented in practice. Earlier, it was said by a colleague from the SD that the position of the Ministry of Finance would also be important. Yes, of course, because this law will have financial implications. These financial effects aren't even that small, but I agree with my predecessors, these financial effects, I'll say, they're not important at all, and we're not interested right now. Maybe it's not the right term "we're not interested" but you know, if we're not able to find money in this country to implement a law like this, then I don't know if we still need one. What pleases me about this law is that the Government supports this bill. That's okay, that's great, actually, but you know, it's never the government that, and the Prime Minister of the government is the ministers who decide whether or not a marriage will then go down that path as outlined. I am, of course, concerned by this statement by the Ministry of Health, in which, for example, they said, and I have already said this in the position of the Group of Members, that we do not know the words “child with special needs” in Slovenia and that the Minister of Health believes that we do not need any specific legislation on children with special needs. I don't think there's really anything else to add here. Finally, let me just say that, of course, I speak from personal experience, we, in my family, as I have said several times before, live with this problem every day, every week, month, year, and we will also be in the future. And of course, we know what happens when you find in a family at some point that things don't work out with a child the way you imagined that something is happening to him, that things aren't going in the right direction, or that I'm simply saying that your child or your child is different. That's why we needed such a marriage not today, not yesterday, not a year ago, but probably ten or twenty years ago. It is now too late for some of us to be able to deal with the children we were dealing with at the time, and we are still working to go through this procedure, but I am extremely pleased and happy that all those who happen to them today and will happen to them in the future will now, of course, have this opportunity to get the necessary help through this comprehensive early treatment to get advice to get, if you want, hope that life with such children can also be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u49	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! As a cosigner, I will support this law myself. This is a law that defines more precisely the help in identifying in the first years of child's life, which, of course, is crucial for its further development, the larger forms of biological, physical, cognitive deficiencies, especially because today these children are being treated in some way and therefore cause a lot of discomfort, primarily to children, especially to their parents, as well as to the professional services involved in this phenomenon. In terms of scope, this phenomenon is divided into three ministries, which is why integration has so much greater emphasis. We have heard from some of the various criticisms in the ministry, which in fact did not literally conflict with each other, which will play a central role in this project, which is a socially sensitive issue. The most important thing I think is, as my colleague from Desus Wilfan has already said, that each ministry needs to really recognize, literally recognize its role, and also properly, with all the means at its disposal, to co-form this project as well. The law, of course, pursues the objective of providing and upgrading health, social care and education services for children with special needs, for children with risk factors and, of course, their families during the pre-school period. The main solutions to the law are to transform the development ambulance into an early treatment centre. It is a publicly accessible and regionally distributed network. This will also ensure a comprehensive legal treatment for children with special needs, for children with risk factors and their families from birth to entry into school. The law will identify early-treatment service providers and then their links through the assistance coordinator to the family, which will provide information to parents and performers for each child. In this way, it will also identify the very early treatment of children and how to identify and send them to an early treatment centre. Within these centres, a multi-disciplinary team will be formed, where their task will be further defined. The possible content of an individual family assistance plan will also be identified, simply because the needs for each child are of course different. I also think it's good that these centers will then connect with the professionals to kindergartens and social work centres. We are also very much talking in this mandate about long waiting lines and time limits for medical treatment. Here I would like to point out that, at present, about 18,000 children are being treated in the development clinics each year, about 900 in the infirmary and, of course, due to the specific development of the brain, it is important that the developmental neurological treatment begins as soon as possible, at least until 3 months of age. In the development clinics, as a consequence, they seek to have children in line for a review within at least one month, which, of course, limits only the number and shorter time of checks, which is therefore not good, since then any further necessary therapy may be delayed or not frequent enough. Therefore, in this context, I also welcome the law because the law proposes a solution to transform, as it is said, the development ambulance into a centre for early treatment of children, which then provides single entry points for integrated treatment and is thus also ensured to shorten time gaps in the treatments required, especially since these entry points are multidisciplinary. And that, as it were, is just one of the solutions. Of course, such a child needs a whole range of additional incentives so that from the start he can somehow compensate for his or her, say, birth deficit, and, on the other hand, parents will somehow try to ease their daily routine. Here I would like to stress further that it has not been forgotten that there are also remote places where children also need this treatment and have, in some ways, been neglected because of their geographical position. This will also make it possible for smaller regional units, which will somehow have well-trained therapists, to try to address this, if I may say so, regional or geographical question. The bill is certainly not a cure for all, of course we are aware of that probably all who are present today at this hearing. However, it is certainly a step towards actually taking such an inter-resortary and, above all, actually taking part in the work. I think that the colleague, Dr Jasna Murgel, has certainly done a great deal of work, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education as well as with the other two ministries, both for health, work, family and social affairs. That is why, of course, I think it is more than right for the law to continue to be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, get Mrs. Erika Girl ready. Here you go, Mrs. Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Ministry and others present! The draft law that we are considering today was supported by all Members of the Desus Group when it was introduced into the parliamentary procedure. I am pleased that the law is in line with many other stakeholders who support the law. Of course, it is very important for the law to be supported by the competent ministries, namely the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, both in the hands of SMC's party, and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The government supported the bill, but I was surprised by the restraint of the law observed by certain competent ministries. I hope these reservations are over. Without adequate cooperation between ministries, the law will not be able to live in practice. The Ministry has a very important role to play after the proposal of the law to ensure that the law is implemented in general. Not to mention additional funding to be provided. In Slovenia there are around 40,000 to 60,000 children with risk factors in development; 7% are infants, followed by children with postpartum complications, infections and so on; around 8 000 to 12 000 are children with mental impairment; children with cerebral paralysis are between 800 and 600; about 4,000 are children with autism; and between 100 and 200 children have epilepsy. Then there are children with hearing impairment and visual impairment, children with congenital disorders of the motion apparatus, with developmental impairment of coordination, and with impaired speech development. Their numbers are expected to increase. All these groups of children are treated in development clinics. In addition to the above mentioned groups of children, children with neuromuscular, neurometabolic and other neurological disorders and children after head injury are also considered in the developmental clinics. The fact that we do not know the exact number of children with special needs or children with risk factors in development tells us much about how this area is being cared for today. Although we have a network of healthcare institutions and institutions in Slovenia that are supposed to take care of this activity, they do not respond to the problems of these children and their parents. The needs of children and their parents are also not adequately met by the development ambulances, mental and hygiene departments or other specialised clinics and kindergarten development departments in Slovenia, which carry out some early childhood treatment programmes. The lack of existing early assistance to families with children with special needs is also the fact that the aid is provided by different laws or is not legally provided. There is also no transparent coordination of the necessary assistance. The existing network of development ambulances should therefore be linked with services and institutions operating in the fields of social protection and education and education. For the integrated treatment of children with special needs, the clinical pathways and treatment of children with developmental disorders and the protocols for the cooperation of health, education and social protection services should be further defined. The Law on the Integrative Early Treatment of Preschool Children is therefore intended to solve the problems of these children. Following the introduction of the Act on the integrated early treatment of pre-school children with special needs, there would therefore no longer be the current child guidance process, but at the Centre for the Early Treatment of Children with Special Needs or Risk Factors, a plan would be drawn up for an individual child to support the child and the family in different areas of life. The initial absence of a government representative and all three competent ministries, which are still working hard to bring the law to life in practice, is an unusual journey to the proposal of the law, but it points out that cooperation between ministries will still need to be strengthened. As early childhood is most important for human development, vulnerable children and children with special needs should be treated as soon as possible. That is why, in the Desus Group, we favour the law and we will vote that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Erika Dekleva has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here you go, Mrs. Girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. The indisputable fact is that we have heard many times today that the first years of child's life are the most important and that they have a key impact on its development, and this is probably all the more true when we talk about children with special needs. These children and these families certainly need an integrated treatment because they face some new way of life, and in this way of life the risk of social exclusion is even greater than in some other cases. That adequate treatment of children with special needs is very important, the World Health Organisation also warns and has therefore formulated and sent recommendations to countries to ensure that people with special needs in society are adequately addressed. And this law also follows these recommendations so that all will have access to all services and all systems, so that they can develop accordingly. The health sector may be particularly exposed, as treatments are not accessible at present, treatments are insufficient, and these are probably not high enough, which is why many parents are directing to the private sector or to therapists who are even acting in black. In the process of integrated early treatment, early treatment centres also play an important role and the law provides for increased capacity, capacity of human resources, which will further facilitate access to these services. The law thus integrates existing aid into a single system, as it is this integration of development ambulances with services and institutions in the field of health, education and social protection that is crucial to achieving the objectives set. The bill therefore establishes early treatment centres where the multi-disciplinary teams will work and also provide entry points for the integrated early treatment of children, as it is indisputable that children need even a range of services and additional incentives, and the Ombudsman also wrote in her report that each child is given the opportunity to make the most of its capacity, but certainly in a way that is in its best interest. I am pleased that the law has both political and professional support and represents an important and first step forward. Just yesterday, I read an article entitled Children far from equal opportunities where the family exposes their distress, because as a family with special needs, they were left to themselves and had to look for answers to questions about how to help the child effectively, where to get the right help for exactly his problems, how to make them easier. Mommy says that, in the first stage of dealing with the fact that her child has developmental problems, she lacked the help of experts the most. This is exactly what this law will bring, which will certainly change in the future, improve, and now offers the first systemic solution in this area, and also, on my part, commends the Ministry of Education, which recognized the need, if not the necessity of such a law, and of course actively participated in the creation itself. Of course, thank your colleague Jasna, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor, and Mr Branko Zorman and Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik will prepare. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Antonio Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. I have a very short period of time, and I said that I would only come by to commend my colleague, who has braved herself and, of course, with the others, managed to bring this law to light. I didn't think particularly about the content of the law, but I wanted to bring down some of my experiences from the 41st century, which was devoted only to children with special needs. In the first part of my service in Maribor I worked in a health organization and was then entrusted with a task, among other things, that toward the end of the 1970s and early 1980s I worked with babies. Really, with babies from birth and there for years, years and a half. Of course, they were extraordinary experiences because they were direct parents, sometimes just mom, sometimes just dad, sometimes grandpa, grandma. These ties worked and we cried together many times, but these are good experiences from this period. I must say, one of the girls today is a teacher of art at the elementary school for hearing harm, which is in my great joy and pride. Let me put it another way: the difficulties my parents have at first are extraordinary, and I must say that I have also managed to keep two partners together as a family, which is also in my great joy and pride, and we are still seeing them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Get Mrs. Irena Grošelj Košnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize in advance for not being as positive as all of you have spoken so far, and I will explain why. To understand the further debate and my thinking, let me say that I, like the proponent, am the parent of a child with special needs. And believe me, if I'm critical of any content, then there's probably some reason here, because I'm not a priori against anything or if I have any comment on something, but I'm not against it. Because I know this area very well not only through working in Parliament, but mainly through the life experience of the last 12 years. And so that it is not misinterpreted, I would just like to add that this is the law proposed by the proposer and co-signed by so many and so many Members, and this is not an SMC law, so it will not be interpreted by accident that I oppose our law or criticise anything in our law. This is my personal opinion and my personal thinking. From this address, I will try to be very objective, which is not the least of which is expected from the position of the Member of the National Assembly, not only to accept the content that I like, but also to be objective and rational with a distance. We are now addressing an area covered by three ministries. In each of these areas, both the social protection sector, the health field and education, we have systems that are relatively good and work relatively well. Sometimes the problem is the connection between these systems. The problem is that parents are too often left to their own ingenuity and information-gathering. I have to admit, again from personal experience, to find out today what kind of right we could use at some other time of age that we didn't even know about, but there's been a lot of years. In addition, we have NGOs with this area and families where children with special needs are already busy and helping in various ways, which is undoubtedly very noble and commendable. This law regulates the system in a way that is now before an empty sheet of paper and writes how we see a solution to this problem, both from personal standpoints and from telling other parents, as well as from comments made by the authorities of individual ministries, and then comes up with a legal solution. I have problems, as I will say below, in this law, that this law takes place: for the first time, it interferes with some sectoral legislation and skips some well-established systemic solutions, at the same time it takes someone who has powers under the law for many years, and it is given power to someone who does not have those powers under any law. And this is the first thing that as a Member can easily confuse me. Of course, it has been mentioned, I think, that it has been mentioned that a pilot project will begin to establish single entry points for integrated early treatment, which will be financed by EU funds, which, of course, will show by its findings how this early treatment system should function and what actual needs are. The agreement, when this area began to be discussed, was such that at least some of the results were waiting for this pilot project to run after at least a year and we actually see what we need. I will not start why the pilot project will run just now, but to accept and write into the law solutions only on the basis of what we think is right, it can be dangerous or irresponsible if you want. We already have in Slovenia some practice of some development ambulances which are already organised, as this law foresees. And it would only be necessary to deepen into this system how it works and within existing legislation, within existing legal options and within existing bodies to regulate what it is. Because if we need and know that it's too little, I don't know, physical treatment of these kids, then we don't need the law for that. We have the Health Council, under the Health Council, are extended professional colleges, which first propose something to the Health Council, which then proposes to the Ministry or ZZS, which, of course, is the payer of these services, and these existing ones can be extended, so we do not need a new law. We can do this already in the system of existing legislation. The fact that there is no link between a development ambulance, i.e. between healthcare professionals and, for example, developmental kindergartens or then the school children, is not practical and should be, is also a fact. I know about one developmental outpatient where it's happening, where developmental pediatricians and physiotherapists and logopedists go to kindergarten, go to school, and basically look at and treat these children. Even more, they also go to rehab with them, this is said in Soča's URI when a technical device is prescribed, for example, and of course they are actively involved there. This is undoubtedly an example of good practice. This is undoubtedly something that can also be done under existing legislation. Cooperation with NGOs as well. I come from the Gornje region, from Kranj specifically, where I must say that cooperation between the development ambulance and, for example, Sožić and Sunčko is extremely good, very exemplary. Every year, they also organize colonies several times a year for these children, and so on, and they offer help to parents. All that the law provides for a family representative to do is do all of this with us today by these NGOs. So instead of improving the existing system and actually people who are already in the system, they just activated to do what they should already do. I have been critical all the time, for example, to people at social work centres who make decisions from offices and judge the entitlements, injustices of certain social rights, instead of going to the field. They probably do sometimes, but you all probably agree to go too few times. Nor do we need this new law because nothing will change. In fact, we give them more comfort if we are in this area. Social work centres will work as they will, but as part of the multi-disciplinary team, a new social worker will be involved and he will provide them with all the information that they can do today and have time to do it today. Further, I was disturbed by this, and as an apology, which was given, I simply did not buy it. Last summer, a working group was formed to systematically regulate the integrated treatment of children with special needs for children from zero to 26 years of age. I agree that the area of pre-school children, says at this age, is extremely important, because then, of course, neuropsychotherapeutic treatments, logopedic working therapy and all these must be needed very intensively at that time and definitely have consequences for the quality of life of this child. But I tell you again from practice that big problems come in primary school, even bigger in high school and then beyond 26 years that after 26 years I do not even explain. And I do not agree that we are partially regulating something that could be spent months more, but we could arrange the whole area because the child does not stop living at 6 when he goes to school, but lives for the rest of his life. And just to give something away, and just to take what's relatively possible to settle, that just doesn't feel right to me. We have partially solved one group, and these same children from the age of 6, then fall down, and families, of course, with them, into another problem again, where they will not have these coordinations and all that. Furthermore, I have already mentioned, interfering with sectoral legislation and judging who will do something and who will determine what. The definition of the network envisaged for these integrated treatment centres shall be entrusted to the Ministry of Health in agreement with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Let me remind you that this is more my area to approve and propose the implementation of the new programmes to the Health Council as an expert body. We are not professional here to determine what must be on a health team and how much individual personnel must be inside. This marriage transcends all of this and what the law does. I wonder if we will now, in the health field, now I do not know, adopt our own law for patients with Parkinson's disease, where we will just determine how many doctors there must be, how many of these treatments there must be, and so on, and not talk about other groups of these patients, which are very large. And, of course, the organization of health care is also changing through this law. Again – here I have to defend the Ministry of Health, despite sometimes being critical of them – beyond their opinion, but we will come to that. Finally, I also miss, of course, the inactivity of the ZZS – the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which would be the largest payer after the entry into force of this law. An additional EUR 4.5 million per year is foreseen for the expansion of these development clinics. This does not pay the budget and we do not need the Ministry of Finance here, as you mentioned many times. ZZZ is usually very active and sends us opinions very quickly. Here I don't know if they've overlooked because it wasn't purely from their work circle, but I'm extremely interested in this feedback of course, but now it's not just about the finances; the finances are finally found, but the opinions of someone who has to pay, but of course I would be extremely interested. Then it was said that, of course, because we have a very emotional area, we all see these children with special needs and, of course, it is very easy to identify them and it is very easy here to awaken an emotional moment and of course we will raise our hands for all that will happen in this area and we will say that it is good. And it is true that this is how we perceive this area, but only in the final stage do we have to legalize something, make a decision, which, of course, must also have some objective coverage and someone, in the final stage even if you want, logic. Comrade Wilfan said that he pointed out that this marriage would save the fact that children with special needs would not wait so long for a dentist. That's not what this law does. This is a problem of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is on the way in and the problem of limited resources. This law doesn't solve it. Just so we don't misunderstand these solutions that are in here. As far as content's concerned, I'd only fly for a little while. I've already mentioned something. With a family representative, maybe he'd just stop. From the very beginning, when we coordinated this law, I asked who this family representative was: is he now a family lawyer, or is he now a mediator among whom, it is, I don't know, psychological consolation. Who is this family representative now? This text, of course, was then completed in preparation and writes what this family representative is supposed to do, but I ask myself again. First of all, I wonder who this representative can be: someone who has experience in the field of people with special needs or children with special needs. I'm sorry, but since I have the privilege of knowing the various parents of children and of course their characteristics are varied, I don't know what plus some of them might contribute. On the other hand, we have NGOs that are already doing this today, the Sun and Coexistence, for example, as just one of the biggest ones. With regard to the coordinator designated by the multidisciplinary team. I absolutely agree that there should be a social worker within the healthcare system or let us say so as part of the development clinic. Absolutely! But once again, this social worker is a deadlock, practically, a social work centre that obviously does not do its work as it should, and we need to introduce a new job to cover this need. I don't think that's right. With regard to the establishment of a protocol on how these children will be treated, they should be established by an extended professional college. Let me once again say that an extended professional college has no legal possibility of accepting such a matter in essence. The Health Council, as the main consultative body of the Ministry of Health, is the one who proposes an extended professional college, but only sub-organisms, consultative bodies somehow to the Health Council, and we cannot, in fact, skip two instances, the Health Council and the Ministry, because the enlarged professional college will take and decide on something. I know why this content is in there, but it doesn't need to be debated right now. Now there's one more thing, and I'm gonna end it. Yesterday or the day before, they adopted the government’s opinion on this law. I would like such an opinion to be in any other parliamentary law. This law covers the area of three ministries, prepared by the Ministry of Education of Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič. In this opinion, although we all know what the opinion of the Ministry of Health was, I do not see a letter from this opinion, but it imposes a left-wing share of both funding and organisation, human resources and so on. So at least what it is, I can say that this opinion is very questionable. Now for the end, as I said: to look at good practices, to wait, as originally agreed, for the first results of this pilot project, to take advantage of the legal options that we already have – this is what would undoubtedly bring what the proposer wants with this law more quickly, and it would also be properly regulated. Since, like the current proposal - but clearly, the content of this proposal of the law can still be changed in the course of the procedure - many things are incomplete, inconvenient and, above all, if you want this unkind word, non-systematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Before concluding, I also give the floor to Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! It was interesting to listen to your discussions, even on this subject, which concerns as many as 400,000 children, we can say that if we play a little bit with numbers, even up to a million and a half family members. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to my colleague Jasna that she was so self-sacrificeful that she insisted on seeing the light of the world. I am also pleased that she has received such effective support from Mrs Andrea Barle Lakota's Secretary of State, that they have somehow breached the barriers to cooperation in various areas. I hope that the co-signers of this law have also given us some support, at least morally, and perhaps with some opinion that we are in this first reading today. Clearly, as a mother, she took us to a world of families where she has to live with a child with special needs every day, I emphasize, just a little. I myself have thought a lot about how different the world is and that in fact, in this mine different world, they have to function and function effectively as individuals and as a family group so that they can come to a satisfactory conclusion every day. I think it is this support that is most important in this consideration. For when the family members are members, the parents, brothers, sisters, suddenly stand before the fact that they have received a relative who has special needs, surely the world is overthrown by everyone, this small world, which was so firm, so predictable. And when this world breaks down, surely all family members, especially parents and brothers and sisters, need some support to face it and to rely as soon as possible on their own capacities, so that they can function as quickly as possible as a group as a family. I think that's exactly what was missing so far, that maybe it was too partial, a medical-diagnostic-therapy approach. Of course, this is also important, but when we are talking about integrated treatment, we are also talking about psychological support and, lastly, also in connection with NGOs and social work centres, that there is also somehow material support and appropriate social transfers to such a family. Full treatment for me also means that this approach, this assistance, is as early as possible. On the one hand, due to the fact that the family as a group, as we have already said, is restored to normal; on the other hand, because the child’s brain and entire neurological and motor structure are being plasticed by about the age of six. The sooner we approach here, the better we can develop our healthy capacities and the more likely it is to get rid of the handicap, because it has been born a deficit. In fact, I also welcome the fact that the first step of the discussion is through European funds, says the European Social Fund, because here it will be possible to identify which services are as effective as possible for each type of child. We know that we have a very diverse population here, which has very different deficits and therefore has very different needs. It is therefore good to test this at this time and then to present this argument to the Health Council, inter alia, in order to be able to examine and approve certain medical procedures. Of course, there must also be adequate treatment at the same time in developmental, outpatient and psychological care, and some of this is also, of course, what the Health Council approves. So, the first treatment will go up. I am pleased that, with the single support of all of us, Members and with effective development, we continue to continue, in particular through successful testing and then the best possible definition of all services, including quantitative support and, of course, appropriate support in the health treasury and also in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'd just like to add something. As far as the pilot project is concerned. This is the basis for marriage, but I don't know; it's not even the first case to run a pilot project at the same time, but the law. We have a similar situation with apprenticeship, but I don't know, we're gonna wait another 15 years to get married maybe. I don't know if that makes sense to anyone — okay. As regards the Health Council, which, of course, I know, is responsible for the approval of health programmes. If we look at the text of the law, perhaps this can and can be collected, “the means of financing employment in early treatment centres shall be provided in accordance with the law governing medical activity or with the law governing health insurance”. So, there's nothing against these laws. I can say something here now about the Health Council, which for several years has not approved the proposal to extend the development ambulances with exactly the same team as envisaged in this law, which has been passed and endorsed by the enlarged College of Paediatrics. There's always a reason. Again, a new proposal has been tabled, including a special teacher and a social worker, and there is already a vicious circle to prevent this extension from being approved. I think that this is absolutely necessary and will make an essential contribution to the treatment of children with special needs, so there is no doubt about what is necessary and what is not. As far as good practice is concerned. I believe so. When I talked to my parents, experts, developmental pediatricians, also from Kranj, Ljubljana, Maribor, there are good practices, but I see no reason why we should not then legalize them. There are some, and then there are none in other areas and, above all, there is no institutional link between all three areas which would justify or permit integration. Yeah, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they can connect, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they have, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't, they And if we find that there is good practice, we can pass it on in marriage. Yeah. NGOs, and this is also mentioned in the law, are those who carried out early treatment. I also think it is good to legislate this practice, so that we can also allow them on a legal basis, so that they may be invited to participate in this area and thus complete this early examination. How to improve the existing system? The easiest thing to say is, we're going to improve what already exists. How? Where are the suggestions? Here's a concrete suggestion as to how. It is based on a proposal from the SDS. At that time, two years ago, we had a joint meeting of the Health Committee, and I think that, on the basis of this Committee's decision, it was a working group for the integrated early treatment of children with special needs. What's her result? What? That, finding that it is, I don't know, a jurisdiction, is all the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. That's her score. The president of this working group shall be from the Ministry of Health. If we had concrete improvements and proposals for existing arrangements to be implemented and that this is for the benefit of children with special needs and their families, but above all, it is focused only on the child and not on the whole family, then the situation would be improved and we would not need this law. But it's not true that we have all the elements. We have in the field of directing a specific decision, a special procedure which we will then simplify here in the process with an individual plan and without much formalisation, which we will then try during the preschool period in order to try it out for a further period. The Centre for Social Work and its role. The point is to expand the team. An expert, a social worker will be there to ensure that multidisciplinary treatment is not just an emphasis on health treatment. It's not like he's going to make decisions now and I don't know what. It is therefore to provide advice, psychological support and only what the social worker does, on the team and when the team discusses the child, that he is also on the team, that in the end he also supports and advises parents and families. The Centre for Social Work, to which the family and the child will refer, will perform its services, which it already has under the law, but, as the colleague says, there are services that I have heard for the first time now that they exist, and from this area this will also make it easier to connect and cover and travel, the Centre for Social Work will do its work, which is already being done, and the social worker will not give any silence. Just the day before yesterday, I spoke to a lady from the Medical Home in Maribor who said that she was a social worker in the pedoshiatry department, but she helped in the health care home in the development clinic and how much it would be necessary because once these workers were inside, on this team, to be a social worker precisely because of this comprehensive treatment. But when we get to social work centres, there's a kind of other aid that the Social Protection Act itself sets out and that's the area of social protection. What else did we say? With regard to the payment of these costs, the Health Insurance Office is not the shareholder that should be put in the process of any opinion here – I believe it will then give in a second reading. In the end, funds also go to the Institute of Health Insurance from the budget and this is what we pay all taxpayers. I always have bad news when I say taxpayers, because somehow I'm not in the real sector either, but the fact is that at the end of the day it's a state budget and an increase, an extension of the infirmary would cost if we extended all 21 outpatients, 4 million more. If at all costs we have given, with all the money we have put into health care, we don't have that money, and if that's the problem, then I really don't know what the problem is in this country. After all, if we provide better early treatment and more therapists, and this is the goal of this system, this law, there will also be fewer problems and even fewer costs later with these children and with these families. The adaptation of the legislation to which it is concerned is the subject of preliminary provisions. I dare to think, to say that I have some experience in the legal field, I have also completed some of the projects in this area and the things I've done, and it's not just to give it away. And also all of us who have worked on it have not only done so to give of ourselves, but we wanted to, and that is the purpose, and then you will decide about it, fellow Members, this is the purpose of ensuring one link between services. I am the first to say that there are many things in Slovenia; in all three areas they focus on the child and not on the family, that is a fact. The law itself has somehow also come from the civil sector, from these same NGOs and is intended to ensure an integrated treatment, the development clinics now do not have a comprehensive treatment, they do not have one, because they do not have complete teams, and they do not have members of the team who are not health personnel – workers; so they are not multidisciplinary. We don't have that, and with this law we're going to guarantee it, and then we're going to provide an individual plan or a record, if it's a risk factor, and that's it. Of course, we have the opportunity to amend the law in the next debate, in the second reading, and certainly we will, because the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service is still coming, but to say that we already have everything, just know what, it is not being implemented. Yeah, great! This is what the Ministry of Health is saying, but yes, we have the one in the Rules on the Implementation of Primary Health Activities, where it says that it treats disturbed children. [[…]] Excuse me! Can't even change this rule or what? Mottens! Physically and mentally disturbed children! I'm sorry, at least that's what you can do! So that we speak exists, exists, just is not implemented – it is also very helpful to parents and children. No, it's not! We have the opportunity to fix this yet, and all comments are welcome, the aim is to integrate this into the whole and ensure a system that will, of course, be upgraded with the validity of 2019, will be the experience of the pilot project and that is it. Ensure something better, connect everything we have into a better, comprehensive system. And that's all the wisdom we follow here. However, if necessary, the Ministry of Education has already said that it will also ensure that this money will burden the municipalities of this funding, amounting to a million 800 for the development departments of kindergartens, i.e. with an adjusted programme, but if the Health Insurance Office has to give something more, excuse me, excuse me, I think it can. And it is not even envisaged that he will immediately give to all ambulances, but the Ministry of Health will set up a network together with both ministries which are responsible in this area because why are two ministries? [[…]] This is not an intervention in competence, but we want to ensure the participation of all three ministries of the field, which must cooperate in this area in order to deal with this child and this family. And that's the whole story. I hope that we will all work together to further discuss the law and also to make a difference, and the Health Council does indeed accept the professional guidelines; I mean, not the Health Council, an extended professional college.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. Dr. Andrea Barle Lakota. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only like to explain that I represented the Government's opinion, which is that the position which was given to you was the position of all three ministries and therefore the position of the Ministry of Health was correctly described. It is indeed a matter of collisions; what we are talking about is whether this is already regulated by legislation that exists. Yes, indeed, a lot of things are regulated by legislation that already exists, but at the time of our talks and the preparation of the law we found that it is the collisions of the three systems and that this is the problem of the whole story. So we all know very well what we have to do for ourselves, but there is no such connection. And that's what parents feel, and that's what we wanted to do with this law. But it is also true that sometimes it seems like some super-institutions have appeared above the parliamentary will, of course, I wish this were not the case. It is probably the parliamentary will and representatives of the people who must tell where the points are where to improve the system with tax money. That is why I would like, in fact, to improve the law where it is still necessary, and, of course, to arrange everything necessary for the implementation and enforcement of this law through this pilot project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you very much. You've got your word. But we have some time left, and if anyone else wants to discuss it, then please sign in. This also applies to the applicant and to the representative of the Government. I'm asking you to sign up. I got it all wrong. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 24 May 2017, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking the 24th item of the agenda. We're moving to 40. Agenda item – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the conversion of the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andrei Barle Lakota, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. The decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor is prepared because we want to take into account the change in the seat of the member of the University of Maribor, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and Information Technology. The new address of the Faculty is now Koroška cesta 46, Maribor. This change must be aligned with the actual situation and therefore be taken into account in the decree. We have also informed the National Quality Agency of the Republic of Slovenia of the change in writing in higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! At its 27th meeting, on 10 May this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the proposal for a decree amending the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the proposal for a decision in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and has announced an editorial amendment to Article 2. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. As no amendments were adopted to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth proposed to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision amending the University of Maribor should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much. No amendments were adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a decree and the amendments could therefore not be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made on Wednesday, 24 May 2017 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with this 40th item of the agenda. We're moving to 41. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing the University of Primorska. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andrei Barle Lakota, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The reason for the proposed amendment and the amendment of the Decree establishing the University of Primorska is the accession of a member of the University of Primorska, namely the Faculty of the Building Environment, to a member of the University of Primorska, the Faculty of Mathematics and Science and Information Technology. As a result, in the Decree establishing the University of Primorska, a member of the University of Primorska Faculty of the Construction of the Environment is deleted. The amendment was confirmed by the Chamber of the University of Primorsk and the Administrative Committee of the University of Primorsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! At its 27th meeting on 10 May this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorska, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and has raised the question of the need for those amendments to Article 6 of the Decree relating to additional fields of study. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. Since amendments have not been adopted to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth has proposed to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorska should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you very much. No amendments were adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a decree and therefore no amendments could be tabled at the assembly meeting. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made on Wednesday, 24 May, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with this 41st item of the agenda. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the organ and the bank resolution arrangement. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to a representative of the Government who is not. Good. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Friends and colleagues, hello! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 37th session. 5. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Authority and Fund for Bank Resolution, a reduced procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 89th meeting that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The Committee adopted the following materials: opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services, opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD groups in Article 5. Representatives and representatives of the Council of State, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance pointed out the sole objective of the proposed regulation, which is to harmonise the provisions of the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund with the provisions of the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, in particular in the work relating to the purpose of using the Bank Resolution Fund. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the service had a comment in a written opinion on one article of the bill which had been repealed by the amendment tabled. The representative of the Council of State presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which does not support the proposal of the law, highlighting in particular the opposition to the existing system in line with bank resolution, since such a method of resolution has not proved to be effective in practice and has not helped to prevent bad practices. In the debate, a Member of the Group of the United Left expressed agreement with the Commission's observations and pointed out the insufficient resources available to the Fund, the mistaken approach of the European Central Bank and other European institutions to addressing the issue of the resolution of the banking sector and the adverse impact of those European institutions on it and announced that they would not support the draft law in the Group of Members, but would abstain. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups to Article 5. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that! Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, who has just joined us! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund, which is before us today, is mainly due to amendments to the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act. The Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund make it necessary to comply with the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act. The most important changes relate to the harmonisation of the provisions governing the purpose of the use of the funds of the bank resolution fund. The assets of the bank resolution fund will be able to be used for, for the first time, the payment of the capital of the company to which the funds, rights and liabilities of the bank are transferred in the process of forcible liquidation. Secondly, the payment of compensation to the bank where the fund as the acquirer assumes the assets, rights and obligations of the bank in the course of the compulsory liquidation process. Thirdly, the granting of loans of guarantees, guarantees or other forms of insurance relating to measures of compulsory liquidation. When we discuss the bank resolution fund, the main issues concern the Fund's ability to prevent bank holes and taxpayers' assets from being patched up. Of course, the need for bank resolution also depends on the irregularities that occur in credit institutions and in the banking system. In Slovenia, we have unfortunately had very negative experience in the area of irregularities in the banking system, as we have been abandoned by all the related mechanisms. The effectiveness of the prosecution authorities and law enforcement authorities in dealing with bank crimes is also said to be insufficient. It seems that only the parliamentary investigative committee is seriously involved in the investigation of irregularities in banks in Slovenia. On 22 November last year, the National Assembly voted on the conclusion of the interim report on the parliamentary inquiry, which contained, inter alia, the text, and I quote: “The National Assembly, in line with the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, proposes to the Government that it provide legal and materially for the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of an organised court.” End of story. 74 members voted in favour of the motion, and no one voted against it. In Novi Slovenija we took the issue of abuse in the banking system very seriously and, on the basis of the previously cited decision, proposed a amendment to the Law on Courts, which, according to a unanimous decision, established specialised judicial departments to deal with banking crime. Look at the fragment! Unfortunately, after we had a concrete proposal on the table, the government coalition has reconsidered the relevance of the specialised court and has not supported our law. If abuse in the Slovenian banking system from the past is not addressed by the perpetrators, improvement of practices in the future is also called into question. This brings potential great pressure on the ability of the bank resolution fund. Since the proposal for amendments to the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund only brings about compliance with the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! In December 2014, the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund were adopted. The law provided for Banka Slovenije to assume the tasks of the resolution authority. At the same time, it was stipulated that the Fund for Bank Resolution should also be established. This fund represents the total assets of the banks it carries out, represents and represents the Bank of Slovenia. The funds paid into the fund by the banks represent the investment of the bank. This investment shall be paid to the bank at the time of its liquidation or in the event of the liquidation of the fund itself. The law provided that the funds of the fund could be used exclusively to save banks. These funds will only be used if there is a public benefit to their use. The law provided that the Fund’s funds could be used to finance the implementation of exceptional measures governed by the law by banking and issued by the Bank of Slovenia only if it is necessary to ensure the stability of the banking system in order to ensure the availability of funds from the Fund in relation to exceptional measures in each bank. Thus, the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund set out in Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Law itself provides for the use of the Fund's funds for the resolution of banks themselves. The assets of the fund may be used as deposits to the capital instruments of the bridging bank for the purposes of the payment of its initial capital or for the purpose of ensuring its capital adequacy, payments to the capital instruments of the bank which have been issued to it by exceptional measures, provided that those capital instruments are issued for the purpose of ensuring capital adequacy covered by past losses of the bank. However, it may also apply to loans, guarantees, guarantees and other collaterals, to a bridge bank or to a bank which has been granted exceptional measures and which have previously covered past losses of the bank. As one of the resolution instruments, the Bank's Institute is now regulated by the Bank's Rescue and Forced Cessation Act. Therefore, the use of the funds of the bank resolution fund to secure the capital of the bridge bank is no longer necessary. The draft law deletes the remaining provisions of the law relating only to the provision of a resolution financing mechanism under the Single Resolution Fund. That mechanism is now governed by the Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u79	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund. We also supported this proposal in its initial vote. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we call on both the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia to manage the fund, as the best host, and we expect this fund to have a positive return at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u80	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everyone! Your Honor! The draft law, which will be unanimously supported by the Desus Group, aligns the provisions of the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund with the provisions of the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act adopted in June 2016. Both have a basis in the European Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive. With its transfer, we were somewhat behind schedule in Slovenia for objective reasons. At the end of 2014, only the most urgent were regulated in the law in force. A bank resolution fund has been established, a bridge bank has been designated as an instrument for bank resolution. The Bank of Slovenia was designated as the national resolution authority. However, the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive was definitively transposed into the national legal order by adopting the Rescue and Forced Cessation Act in June 2016. The law repealed the provisions relating to the bridge bank and part of the provisions relating to the resolution financing mechanism under the single resolution fund. At the same time, it changed the purpose of using the national bank resolution fund. The most important principle of the novel is the principle of providing funds for the orderly winding-up of banks, which is realized by the possibility of using the funds of the bank resolution fund in the process of forcible winding-up of banks. This will maintain investor access to their roles, access to basic banking services by consumers. In cases where access to applications cannot be maintained, the payment of claims will take into account the priority order. As has already been said, it is a matter of coordination with the provisions of the Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act, which is why we will support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The Authority and Bank Resolution Fund Act itself was established to establish a national bank resolution fund as an investment fund involving 14 banks and 3 savings banks. The Fund was set up to provide funding for bank resolution measures during the transitional period, thereby reducing taxpayers' exposure to potential future losses in the Slovenian banking sector. Since 2016, Banka Slovenije has managed this fund separately from its assets. However, with the adoption of the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, this Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund must also be aligned with the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, in particular as regards the change in the purpose of the use of the National Bank Resolution Fund. This law, which we are enacting today, provides that the funds may also be used for the payment of the company's fixed capital for the acquisition of funds established in accordance with the law governing the resolution and forcible termination of banks and to which the bank's assets, rights and obligations are transferred in the process of forcible liquidation. By adopting this law, we are talking about harmonising both laws and thus trying to avoid ambiguities and, above all, to ensure a coordinated functioning within the banking system. Let us hope that the system will work well, because there is still a lot to be done in Slovenia for confidence in the entire banking system sector to return to a significantly higher level than it once was. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The proposed law is part of the Brussels Banking Union project, which is harmful to Slovenia and many other EU members, so I can say from the outset that we will not support the proposal. At the same time, I would like to point out once again how the Government and the coalition have confirmed the Brussels directives and how European institutions and their banking rules in Slovenia have caused the greatest harm due to such measures. Let me remind you briefly of the course of events. In December 2013, the government of Alenka Bratušek recapitalised banks with more than three billion euros on the basis of forced stress tests. At least three circumstances confirm the suspicion that these measures were enforced. Firstly, the lower officials in Brussels explicitly requested that small shareholders be disbanded. Secondly, as early as September 2013 banks had positive capital under international standards, in December of the same year, which is 3 months later, stress tests showed just as much capital deficit that all small owners had to be completely decommissioned. Thirdly, the difference between the results of the two methods of stress tests was up to 45 %, while there was almost no difference in similar stress tests in Spain. The consequences of such an event will continue to hit us for 10 years. The public debt has increased significantly more than it should, so it is no wonder that Slovenia is currently ranked 4th in the European Union, although our debt is below the average of the European Union. Nevertheless, the European Commission did not approve Slovenia's aid centre, but requested the privatisation of 15 companies and all banks. Any approximately normal government would try to mitigate such demands at least if it were not already resolved. Instead, this government is accommodating the European Directive and is carrying out forced privatisation, pardon, sale. The sale of NKBM for EUR 250 million was nothing more than a sale, even recognised by the then Secretary of State of Dragonja. At least what Cerar's government should do would require an extension of the deadline for the sale of NKBM. This was achieved by Italy and Portugal at the same time, and in the end the government partially achieved this in the case of NLB, but Prime Minister Cerar and Minister Maramor did not do so, allowing the sale of banks to a speculative fund that operates through the "Kaslc" of companies in tax havens. Cerar's government is therefore directly responsible for the damage to the public property that has occurred. While the National Assembly, without discussion, is patching up banking legislation, the sale continues. This time it's NLB. This time, too, there is no economic reason for the bank to privatise itself, not to sell now that the price does not nearly cover the cost of recovery. We have invested more than €2 billion in it, if we subtract all expenditure, we will be able to make about 600 million for it, even after the government's optimistic expectations. I will therefore conclude this position by calling on the Government, as the SDH Assembly, to prevent the sale of NLB. It is still not too late to do so and to ask the European Commission to remedy the harmful decisions concerning the privatisation of NLB and the Bank. Why did I say all this? Because it is by means of regulations such as those we are transferring to Slovenian law today that the power of the European Union, which is directly responsible for everything described in this text, is still increasing over the Slovenian banking system. Therefore, we do not support such policies in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law on income under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on the draft decision, Ms Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! At its 37th meeting, on 9 May 2017, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Income submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the unrelated Member, Andrej Čuš. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. The service made some comments on the title of the law and the individual articles and pointed out that the status of the young farmer has been regulated. The Committee was also provided with the following material: the opinion of the Commission of the State Council and the opinion of the Government. In its opening remarks, the representative of the bill's proposer explained that the aim of the proposed law is to exempt subsidies as income included in the income base. It is also important to address the situation of young people who are engaged in agricultural activities. To that end, the State would exempt them from payment of the cadastral income for a period of three years from the acquisition of the farm. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the reasons why the Government does not support the bill, namely, with regard to raising the threshold from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 5 000, further exempts from taxation all payments on the basis of agricultural policy measures and all other payments received in connection with basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. Thirdly, the cadastral income of agricultural and forestry land owned by a young farmer under 37 years of age does not fall within the tax base of such undertakings for a period of three years from the acquisition of ownership. Fourthly, the expansion of investment investments in basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, including the purchase and construction of buildings for agricultural purposes. Fifthly, with regard to the proposal to intervene in Article 154 of the Income Act. In the debate, some Committee members lacked specific calculations or the financial impact of subsidies on the state budget. In response from the Government representative, it was further explained that the proposed solutions undermine the whole concept of the VAT system and that assessments or calculations also mean different approaches or choices of methodology. Only the correlation between tax change and growth rate is empirically difficult to calculate and prove. On the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, the Committee further proposed that the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. The Committee adopted the following decision with 11 for and 4 against: Proposal for a Law amending the Income Act, second reading, is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you very much. In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the motion for a bill to Mr Andrei Chuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u89	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In 2006, the Income Act introduced agricultural subsidies which were not intended for direct investment as an income base. Subsidies are intended to be paid for the implementation of activities, cross compliance, good agricultural practices and food production. They do not directly represent income on the agricultural holding, as subsidies are used to maintain and reinvest in activities. Subsidies are linked to the surface and not to production or product, which means that they are not a direct income payment, but a payment for agriculture as an activity. The main objective of the new Law on Income, which I came to on the basis of, I can say, one-month activities and meetings with many farmers and farmers in Slovenia, is in particular to return to farmers, which is theirs. The State distributes the subsidies in accordance with the European acquis and then we take them back. Such a system is intended primarily for the bureaucracy and maintenance of public finances and is not intended to improve the position of Slovenian farmer. The proposal to amend the law contributes to greater competitiveness and faster progress of young people in agriculture, as by exempting the payment of cadastral income for the first three years from the acquisition of young people, it will allow them to carry out the investment cycle and modernise their economies during this period. When it has been said that the emphasis of this law is also on young farmers who decide to become takeovers, I must say that the age structure in Slovenian agriculture is very poor. Only 4% of the farmers are in the age structure until the age of 35, which poses a long-term threat to Slovenian agriculture, as it is found that farmers no longer invest after the age of 50 and do not decide on new investments in agriculture, modernisation of equipment and could still be listed. This law will also contribute to higher farm revenues and will also reduce the negative effects of trade and market fluctuations on the agricultural sector itself. The law will also contribute to improving the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture, the conservation of rural areas and the need for economic growth. Above all, the economy is one that should open up new jobs in the future, not just the public sector or only the public sector. Agriculture is one important economic sector, where we have a huge potential for growth and development in Slovenia, as well as progress mainly in the Slovenian countryside, which unfortunately dies on meals. The main solution to the law is, therefore, the collection of subsidies as income, which is included in the income base. It is also important to address the situation of young people who are engaged in agricultural activities. To that end, the State would exempt them from payment of the cadastral income for a period of three years from the acquisition of the farm. To the conclusion. It is a bureaucratic and financial burden for all 70 000 Slovenian farms. The number of farms per year is falling, and this is also a reflection of some wrong agricultural policies. This law also follows the principle of the World Trade Organisation, which is in the position that subsidies are not counted as income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Tiln Bozic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, to present my position on the proposal of the working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u91	Dear President, honourable Members, welcome! This proposal provides for a number of actions aimed at increasing the benefits or exemptions for debtors who report a basic agricultural and basic forestry activity for which income is generally assessed flatly on the basis of the cadastral income and the flat-rate assessment of income on bees. With regard to the increase in the income threshold of the first stage of the production of own agricultural crops, the Government considers that the applicable threshold of EUR 3 000 500 of the total income to be exempt constitutes an acceptable threshold of exemption, which can be justified in comparison with all other activities of natural persons who do not have such benefits, since the threshold represents approximately the income of the minimum wage or the minimum income twice the equivalent of not so small quantities of products or income, which does not exceed 80 % of the farm households that are liable to income on a flat-rate basis. With regard to the exemption of all payments under agricultural policy measures, i.e. agricultural subsidies under taxation, I should explain that subsidies which compensate for market income or income by international classifications of income from agricultural activities, for example FAO, OECD and so on, are considered to be income from activities. International comparisons confirm that all countries of the European Union, like Slovenia, in one way or another, as part of the flat-rate taxation of the tax base or as a separate part of the income for the purpose of taxing the subsidy income as part of the income of the agricultural activity. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore considers that their exemption from taxation, both in terms of pursuing the principle of taxation by economic power and in terms of equal treatment of the debtors in a comparable income position, is not appropriate. In addition, we believe that the specificity of agricultural activity in the framework of the income is duly taken into account and that no subsidy is included in the taxation after the applicable arrangements to cover costs which are not taken into account in the calculation of the cadastral income. In this way, more than half of the subsidies which are of a nature of income but which are intended to compensate for income from environmentally friendly production, under difficult conditions or to compensate for the loss of income in the event of natural disasters are not already covered by taxation. With regard to the requirement for additional exemption of cadastral land income owned or used by young farmers during the first three years of business, it is appropriate to clarify that there are several specific support available to young farmers. The current European perspective also provides significant funds to young farmers. The granting of additional allowances in this group of debtors could constitute an unjustified advantage in relation to other natural persons who are in a similar situation at the start of their activities. In addition, let me explain that the extension of the investment relief to agricultural buildings is not in line with the principle of the principle of all types of activities, so that the investment relief is allocated primarily to investment, modern equipment and new technologies, but not to investment in land or buildings. With regard to the proposal to intervene in Article 154 of the Act, it is necessary to clarify that this provision has already been affected by the Constitutional Court’s decision, which concluded that the application of the average amounts of subsidies instead of the actual amounts of subsidies is unconstitutional and, in particular, that the provision of Article 154, which was regulated as a transitional provision, was to the regulation of the new system for the determination of cadastral income by the application of the Cadastrian Income Law in 2011, and that the law has therefore fixed its termination and application. Article 154 of the Income Act therefore no longer prejudices it. Dear Members and Members! In light of the above, the Government does not support the proposal for a law, as already presented on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! The proposal for a law amending the Income Act proposes to raise the income threshold of the small volume of the first stage of production of own agricultural crops, to which an income exemption of EUR 3 000 500 can be applied to EUR 5 000. The current ceiling is set so that comparable incomes with other espies and natural persons with activity are equally exempt and the threshold of EUR 3 000 500 of income is that ceiling which can be justified in the light of the principle of equality and the principle of taxation by economic power, as I have already mentioned, of all entities, espses and other natural persons with activity. However, it is also proposed that all payments from agricultural policy measures and all other payments received in connection with basic agricultural and basic forestry activities be fully exempt from taxation. It should be noted that payments under the measures of agricultural policy and other State aid which have the nature of the revenue compensation have been included in the income tax since 2005 when the available data have started to show that the share of the income from this Title in agricultural activities per year is increasing and that these payments represent already more than 40% of the income from agricultural activities. The decision is based on the fundamental constitutional principle that taxpayers in the same factual situation should be treated in the same way and on the principles of taxation under economic power and the rules of the Income Act, in order to tax all the incomes of the debtors in principle. The applicant also proposes that the cadastral income of agricultural and forestry land owned by a young farmer younger than 37 years of age shall not be included in the tax base of such undertakings for a period of three years from the acquisition of ownership. It should be noted that the proposed solution does not fall under Article 73 of the Income Act, which is intended to exempt land where income cannot be obtained because of different circumstances, which does not apply to land used by a young farmer. It should also be noted that income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities is determined on land in use and not on land owned by the debtor. The last proposal of the applicant concerns the expansion of investment for investment in basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, including the purchase and construction of buildings for agricultural purposes. In principle, in terms of promoting investment, direct support is more supported than the enforcement of tax reliefs, as direct measures can be much more targeted and selective in terms of actual needs, pursuing strategic public objectives. For all of this we support the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u95	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us an opinion on the law amending the Income Act tabled by Mr Chuš, a fellow Member of Parliament. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, they would initially protest the actions carried out by the coalition, the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats, as they are now generally repeating themselves on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that for those laws proposed by the opposition, one of the Members or Members then in the middle of the debate suggests that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that by doing so, the coalition is undermining the foundation of parliamentary democracy, which is the debate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we appeal to all three leaders of the parliamentary groups that these actions are unacceptable. In particular, they are unacceptable because Members and Members of Parliament are unable to hold a debate, with arguments about whether we support the law or oppose the law. More. The proposal proposed by Ambassador Sherganov of the Modern Centre Party did not explain in a single word why the law was not suitable for further consideration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such a coalition's attitude clearly reflects the attitude towards the opposition. That the attitude towards the opposition has been denied. We strongly oppose this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not mind if you vote against the proposed law. It bothers us, however, that after five minutes of discussion, you should suggest that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. As I have already mentioned, this is repeated on the Committee on Finance and Mounted Policy whenever such a proposal is made by the opposition. We regret that we cannot discuss today at the plenary session the proposal proposed by our fellow Member, Chuš.We do not really see this reason and we appeal once again that the foundation of parliamentary democracy is primarily the debate. We cannot force you to support a certain law, but we expect to make a decision by discussing where the arguments will prevail. Unfortunately, the argument of power, not the power of argument, prevails today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u96	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! Allow me to present the Common Position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act and the Amendment to the Income Act. The proposer took serious action to regulate the area of agriculture. In this case, it is serious to judge only by the number of legal proposals tabled on the same subject. Thus, we have at this regular meeting, in addition to today's proposal, five additional proposals dealing with identical areas. Unfortunately, the rest is merely superficial and non-systemic content, but we must admit it is very attractive. The concern for young farmers in all proposals is merely an unrestrained attempt to bring a certain interest group closer. As I mentioned, just an attempt, nothing more. Especially because of the very loose way in which things are handled. All legislative proposals, in addition to serious nomotechnic problems, do not substantively support any real financial structure. The same is true of today's proposal to introduce administrative benefits and tax advantages for young farmers. Specific conditions are proposed for such a group, such as exemption from tax and cadastral income and various exemptions. Above all, it is not realistic to leave an assessment of the financial implications of individual measures when designing or modifying tax policy. This is, I hope to say, a diversion, because the proposed solutions represent a less tax collection. We also consider the same behaviour in the Desus Group to be irresponsible, since if the applicant wants to be liked, he will have to tell the public how to compensate for the financial outflows with which the so-called anti-measures would build on the already existing tax advantage scheme. In the Desus Group, we have repeatedly reiterated that without tax revenues and social contributions, it is difficult to imagine popular social-state creators who provide all the needs of citizens. The applicant has also forgotten for a moment the equal and fair treatment of all other taxpayers. All the reasons mentioned above confirm that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We will also re-establish the decision at the meeting of the home committee in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u98	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law amending the Income Act introduces very large changes and additions, although no addition is included in the proposal itself. Above all, we want to first point out the status of a young farmer, for whom the bill sets the age limit of 37 years. Unfortunately, this change in the age limit of 37 years is not specifically defined and derogates from both the Agricultural Lands Act and the Regulation of the European Parliament which regulates the concept of a young farmer as a person who is not more than 40 years old. The adoption of this law would even narrow the circle of beneficiaries with regard to the status of a young farmer, and in particular would lead to ambiguities which would make the situation of agricultural holdings very difficult. The law also provides for the removal of the tax base of income from basic agricultural activities and relates to Article 154 of the Income Act. However, it should be noted that this Article no longer applies and therefore cannot be amended as this Article was in force as a transitional period until the implementation of the Cadastrian Income Act. When we adopted the Cadastrian Income Act, this 154th article was also consumed in the Cadastrian Income Act. Here I would only remind you of the discussions when we discussed the introduction of a new Cadastrian Income Act, the conclusion was, in fact, that it brought, in particular, the first phase of this Act more favourable conditions for agricultural economies than had been established before the adoption of the new Cadastrian Income Act. However, other content relating to the exclusion of subsidies which have the nature of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities would result in discriminatory treatment of the debtors and thus raises the question of the constitutional dispute of possible solutions, in particular in relation to farms which identify income from agricultural activities by bookkeeping. Those who maintain books on a regular basis would certainly be in a discriminatory position. In doing so, it is not too important to point out that, with different status within the position of a farmer resulting from the adoption of this law, it is also likely that there would be problems with entrepreneurs and others who are engaged in activities as legal persons. Thus, it can be found that, at the existing threshold for the first processing of own crops exempted from taxation – this threshold is EUR 3 000 500 – this threshold is quite comparable to, for example, the threshold for the exemption for personal supplementary work of EUR 3 000 150 per year. The current solutions are somehow consistent, harmonised and we must therefore be very careful before we interfere with the tax system, so that we do not create additional uncertainties and, above all, the discriminatory treatment of individual debtors. All these are the reasons why we voted in favour of not being able to deal with the law at the meeting of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u100	Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I will define myself on behalf of our parliamentary group right up to the entire package of laws proposed by unrelated Member Andrej Chuš. Unbound Member Andrej Čuš has tabled five minor legislative changes aimed at improving the state of Slovenian agriculture. In the United Left, we agree with the proposaler on the assessment of the bad situation in agriculture, but we will not support this package of laws. Let me first identify myself before the novels of the Value Added Tax Act and the Income Act. With these two laws, the proposer wants to lower taxes on farmers. In principle, in the United Left, we do not oppose changing tax rates and tax thresholds with a view to promoting greater agricultural production, but we believe that financial effects must be evaluated, which are not in these two laws. The deficit is therefore both an analysis of the situation and an assessment of the consequences of the adoption of these two laws. The Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which would turn the agricultural chamber into a private institution from which the interests of all medium-sized and small farmers would fall, is totally unacceptable for the United Left. The Novela of the Law on Agricultural Lands, however, aligns the law with sub-legal acts, although they should be the opposite, and puts young farmers first in the priority purchase of agricultural land. This puts them even in front of farmers whose agricultural activity is the only and main economic activity, which is the case for a young farmer, and so on and is the first on the list of priorities. In the second case, it is said that it is not, but it is not fair to a farmer who is solely and exclusively arable with agriculture. We also disagree with the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Fund Act because it proposes deleting the provision whereby, in the absence of an area of natural values and protected areas, the owners of the fund may, if it is not an area of natural values and protected areas, transfer the ownership rights to the municipality free of charge, provided that the public interest is expressed in the construction of sports, health, education, social protection, science, culture and so on. That would be deleted now, but we can't agree with that. With regard to the last law, this is the Public Procurement Act, and I must say that in the United Left we have already warned about the biggest problem at the time of the adoption of the third new Public Procurement Act. Although the new law has brought better solutions, it has redirected the essence of ordering exclusively from focusing on the lowest price and has set certain limits for companies that do not respect workers' rights. But all these positive solutions have a common problem, and this is the word “may”, so there is no obligation in marriage. Andrej Čuš correctly recognises this and in Article 71, the word “may” changes into the word “mora”, which we agree with, but only this change, and we have already warned about this in the previous reading, will not have the desired effect unless the 84th paragraph, which specifies exactly what the criteria for the award of the contract are. When we proposed these amendments, in particular Article 84, when we adopted the Public Procurement Act in the United Left, the drafter abstained from voting this time. In the United Left, we are aware of the importance of agriculture. We are in bad shape and through our warning to the committee responsible, and we are also proposing solutions in the form of amendments to the laws that are proposed. There is certainly something to be done to stop the negative trends in self-sustainment and abandonment of farms, but we believe that in the case of this package of laws, there are rather reckless and at some points also harmful interventions of existing legislation that would even eliminate the already achieved levels of rights and standards in this country. These are the main reasons why a package of laws cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u102	The last position will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Law on Income, signed by colleague Andrej Čuš, provides a set of measures that would bring a lot of good for Slovenian rurals and Slovenian farmers. If we take a closer look at the proposal, we find that it exempts income paid for agricultural policy measures from the payment of income, an increase in the threshold for determining the small amount of first-degree farm processing from additional farm activities from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 5 000 – the income from these activities is exempt from, except for support and subsidies for agriculture from the payment of income, a three-year exemption from the payment of cadastral income for young farmers when taking over the farm, taking into account investment in agricultural buildings as a relief for investments in basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, except for the contribution of subsidies to the area of agricultural land when calculating the cadastral income. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that solutions are on the ground and therefore we support them. From year to year, the Slovenian countryside is more and more deserted and has fewer and fewer people. Young people find it difficult to take over farms, as tax and administrative requirements are often too many obstacles, making it easier for young people to switch to other professions. It often seems that with its heavy, unpredictable and responsible work, several thousand agricultural rules must also prove to be a good lawyer. Not to mention climate change or various storms that have a strong impact on the income of agricultural holdings, since practically the farmer's factory is outdoors, it's practically under a nice sky, if I may say so. This country could have done a lot of things. Let me just mention the defense against the tide, let's say in Pomour this defense is not at all like a simple state has forgotten about it. But that's not the topic of this law right now. Christian Democrats argue, however, that for the future of the Slovenian countryside, tax burdens on young people who decide to take over the farm are very welcome. Unfortunately, instead of tax and administrative burdens from this government and this coalition, farmers only received a request for tax receipts. That is why we have already proposed in Novi Slovenija that farms carrying out complementary activities with less than €15 000 of annual income should be exempt from the use of tax boxes. The complementary activity of farms often means preserving different traditions, products, important handicrafts and other skills, increasing the supply of local products and consequently enriching the lives of our local communities, while giving farmers the opportunity to further develop and transfer knowledge to new generations. Unfortunately, this proposal has also not received the support of the government coalition. We Christian Democrats are disappointed that the coalition has proposed for this amendment of the law and has voted on the home labour body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In Novi Slovenija we would be happy to discuss the situation of Slovenian farmers. Unfortunately, there is not much of this will in the government coalition, which is also very bad for the development of the Slovenian countryside. In Novi Slovenija we will therefore vote against the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law amending the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. We will vote against the proposal for this decision because we are for young farmers. And whoever is for the young farmers is also for the farmers of the pensioners and pensioners in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u104	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the context of Wednesday's vote, 24. 5. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill amending the value added tax law. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Čuš. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on the draft decision, Ms Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you again. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 37th session. 5. 2017 was treated as a parent labour body by the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the unrelated Member Andrej Chuš. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. The service made some comments on the title of the law and the individual articles and pointed out that the status of the young farmer has been regulated. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the opinion of the Government. In its opening remarks, the representative of the proposed law-maker explained that the aim of the proposed law is to introduce a higher income limit for the mandatory management of bookkeeping and the exemption of young farmers from taxation for a period of three years from the acquisition of the farm. It is also important to contribute to the resolution of the existing situation of young people launching agricultural activities and to improving the age structure of the agricultural sector. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the reasons why the Government does not support the bill, namely that the thresholds of EUR 50 000 of taxable transport and EUR 7 000 500 of cadastral income over which both categories of small taxpayers are necessarily included in the VAT system are comparable. All income relating to basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in a farm household, as defined by the law governing income, is considered to be catastronomic income. The calculation of the threshold shall take into account all the taxable income of the farm household on the basis of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. The raising of the threshold of cadastral income for a household farmer to EUR 15 000 would put the other small taxpayers at a disadvantage, who are exempt from the charging and payment of VAT up to the threshold of taxable transport of EUR 50 000. As a result, the threshold in question should also be raised for these debtors. The threshold of €15 000 of cadastral income would theoretically mean more than €100,000 of taxable transport. Tax policy is one of the most important indicators of the attractiveness of the business environment and can be one of the tools for stimulating the economy as a whole. Nevertheless, tax policy cannot and must not be a key indicator of the attractiveness of the business environment of a given country, but can only support other measures to ensure an attractive business environment. In the debate, some members of the Committee expressed their misunderstandings about the opposition to the law, as the higher threshold would also be a higher tax profit for the state budget and would lack concrete calculations, as was the case in the case of the consideration of the proposal for an income law. On the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, the Committee further proposed that the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. With 12 for and 2 against, the Committee adopted the following decision: a proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act, a second treatment, is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u106	In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the motion for a bill to Mr Andrei Chuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u107	My colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! Government representatives! At this point and also at the previous point there were many discussions on a favourable business environment, opening up some new jobs mainly in the economy. Therefore, this time the question is whether the crisis is gone, as the coalition says, when will the government eliminate the increase in the value added tax at both levels to the pre-crisis level. When a person listens to these debates and when some candy is shared, each party for their own pool of voters and voters gets the feeling that economists, entrepreneurs, farmers and people who create in the real sector are class enemies for you. So once again, when are we going to return both levels of value added tax to the pre-crisis level? As has already been said, I have also tabled a new Law on Value Added Tax, this time with greater emphasis on Slovenian agriculture. When you talk as a politician, a Member, as a citizen with a farmer and ask him what he would like to do to improve in Slovenia, arrange, many people, especially in Styria, where I come from, says that it would be best to copy the legislation of neighbouring Austria and everything would work with us. Not that we have more bureaucratic obstacles, new regulations from day to day, and when an individual decides to be a farmer, it seems to him that he must do a doctorate or a Master's degree in law to understand everything we have adopted. This proposal, which has also been tabled, follows the pattern and principles of regulating tax policy for farmers in Austria. Here I would also point out that last year, 800 farms were forced to enter the value added tax clearing system. With this law, as well as with the previous Income Act, I want to help small farms, family farms, which are essential for the preservation of Slovenian rural areas, which have new obstacles, and, on the other hand, by restricting resources and opportunities for development, they die or are becoming less and less young farmers. The competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture is extremely weak. Natural resources do not allow intensive production, so fewer and fewer young people are taking over the farm. Young people do not decide to carry out agricultural activities and lose quite a percentage of farms per year. But not only do we lose farms, but we also lose land, agricultural land, biodiversity and food security. The most vulnerable group is the young individuals who set up an agricultural activity. This is linked to extremely high basic assets, while income is low. The country must therefore encourage and create an economic environment for the progress and development of farms at a time when a young farmer takes over the farm, at a time when it invests most in fixed assets. The amendment of this law will contribute to the country's objectives in order to provide jobs for young people and the restructuring of the agricultural age structure. The main objective of the law is to enable farmers to reduce their exposure to markets during the most vulnerable period of the establishment of agricultural activities and at the same time to reduce the cost of their production and, in particular, red tape. The main solution is therefore the introduction of a higher income limit for the mandatory management of bookkeeping and the exemption of young farmers from taxation for a period of three years from the acquisition of the farm. It is also important to contribute to addressing the existing situation of young people starting up agricultural activities and to improve the age structure of the agricultural sector. Colleagues and colleagues, especially from the Government, when we talk about who we're going to give to, because there's no crisis anymore, and because we can live on a higher foot and in a better standard, at least I miss the question, who will be the one who creates it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u108	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic, to present my position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u109	Dear President, honourable Members, welcome back! The proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act proposes a higher income limit for compulsory bookkeeping or registration for VAT purposes, resulting in 7 000 500 to 15 000 euros and exemption from VAT accounting for young farmers. There are several matters to be clarified in this regard. In accordance with the applicable value added tax law, certain taxable persons are exempt from VAT accounting on the basis of a specific scheme for small taxpayers. This is optional and is available for all debtors under the same conditions. Young farms can also be included here. The VAT Directive does not allow for exemption on the basis of the different status proposed when it comes to young farmers. For this reason, too, the possibility of a solution was used, which provides for the exemption of VAT accounting for taxable persons who do not reach a certain threshold for taxable traffic. This exception is therefore not linked to the specific status of the taxable person, but to the scope of the business and is intended for the administrative disposal of small taxpayers, irrespective of their status. It is also worth mentioning certain existing support mechanisms for young farmers, which, inter alia, provide for, for example, a sub-programme in the rural development programme, which provides support for the start-up of activities for young farmers amounting to more than €60 million in the 2014-2020 perspective. As a small taxpayer, rural households can be exempt from VAT accounting on condition that they do not keep books under the law governing income and that the cadastral income of all members of the agricultural household for the last marketing year does not exceed EUR 7 000 500. However, a special arrangement for other small taxpayers who are obliged to keep records in accordance with current economic legislation is possible if they have not exceeded or are unlikely to exceed EUR 50 000 in tax transport over the last 12 months. The marginal amounts are set in a way that compares them. This implements the principle of equal tax treatment of taxpayers. 7 000 500 Euros of cadastral income corresponds to about 50,000 Euros, resulting in 15 000 Euros corresponding to around 100,000 Euros of transport. As the Government, it is estimated that the current threshold of EUR 7 000 500 of cadastral income at this time is appropriate and comparable. Of course, we agree that the effects of the threshold of EUR 7 000 500 of cadastral income must be monitored and the threshold should be adjusted in the future, if necessary, to the changes in the amount of the taxable income of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities as a result of the transitional period under the law governing cadastral income. This assumes that this is gradually rising and is certainly an occasional reflection on whether this limit should also be adjusted. Talks will or will be under way. Taking into account the above, the Government opposes the proposal of this Act and also proposes that the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u110	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. The bill raises the threshold set out in Article 24, paragraph 2, of the Value Added Tax Act from EUR 7 000 500 of cadastral income to EUR 15 000 in order to ensure that farmers’ households no longer need to be led by bookkeeping up to the threshold of EUR 15 000. The relevant threshold for a farmer is the threshold over which those taxable persons are identified for VAT purposes and subject to the same rules as all other taxable persons, espies, parts included in the VAT system. Including the obligation to keep books. In the SMC Group, we believe that raising the threshold of cadastral income for a household farmer to EUR 15 000 would make it worse for other small taxpayers, such as espouses, parts and others, who are exempt from the charging and payment of VAT up to the threshold of taxable transport of EUR 50 000. These two thresholds are comparable. However, it is not possible to legislate in such a way as the Republic of Slovenia must submit a request to the European Commission for permission to introduce a specific measure and increase the annual turnover threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system and demonstrate that the impact of the measure on tax revenues would be negligible. Given that the cadastral income from a real level will be slightly reduced in 2017 and that the cadastral share of the cadastral income on taxation will be gradually increased only in 2019, we agree with the Government to monitor the effects of the threshold of EUR 7 000 500, but it would be appropriate to actually adjust the threshold to the changes in the amount of the taxable income of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities only when the results of the income analysis indicate this. However, it should be said that the comparison between EU Member States according to data on the level of the mandatory entry threshold for VAT in 2016 shows that Slovenia, with a threshold of EUR 50 000, is classified among Member States with a higher threshold for entry into the compulsory VAT system. It is thus clear that the current threshold is appropriate because in 2015 there were 52 000 495 taxpayers in the VAT system of a total of 106 000 8 debtors whose revenues did not exceed the limit of EUR 50 000. With a threshold of EUR 100,000, about 17,000 would be able to withdraw from the VAT system, with the government assessing that about a tenth of these taxpayers, that is about a thousand 700, would actually decide to withdraw from the VAT system. All these arguments were also presented on the Committee. For all of this we will also support this time the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending the Added Value Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration. I think all these arguments are credible and are on the table, so comments from the opposition will not go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u112	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this solution for the following reasons. Firstly, if we look at how the value added tax is charged in the agricultural field, then we can see that this solution is nothing bad for state finances. This is the first case, which means, in other words, that if someone is not in the value added tax system, he does not have the right to enter tax. Since he does not have the right to an entry tax, he actually pays all the entry tax, but of course he can get a compensation after a special arrangement, I think he is 4%. It used to be 4%, I think it's still this one. This is the first thing that says nothing bad is going to happen to the state budget, but it can be even better. The second is that we cannot simply agree with the Government's view that this will leave entrepreneurs, espouses and parts in an uncompetitive situation. Why not? Because probably an auto mechanic, a tax advisor, a lawyer, a painter, and so on do not compete with a farmer. That's why there's no argument here at all. These arguments brought by the Government are nicely unprofessional, misleading. All those who copy these arguments and do not “understand” what is in fact, simply do nothing good because these arguments are simply unreal. And to speak Slovenian, you're transcribing, but you don't understand. As a result, such arguments are simply unprofessional and have no sound logic. This proposal is perfectly okay and also fully in line with the directive, with that part of the directive setting out the limit amount when someone enters the VAT system and when they do not enter the VAT system. Even if you look at the other countries, these amounts are much higher. Here it is simply a caprica of the government and then some people repeat this opinion, which does not actually contribute to anything. And there's another thing. There was also a view from the Government that the tax environment is not part of the business environment, but that the tax environment is only support for other measures for a better business environment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another position of the Government, which some of you are rescribing, but you do not understand what it really is. But that's not true! The tax environment is part of the business environment and is part of the business environment, which still determines whether farmers, entrepreneurs, investors will operate in Slovenia or will not operate in Slovenia. Not only does the government here reject this proposal, which is completely harmless, rejects it in an uncompromised way, in an unprofessional way. More. In addition, it sets out certain positions that are, to say the least, very bad for this country, very bad for investors, and it gives the world and domestic investors a bad signal, a very bad signal. In fact, it is not necessary to do this at all, but such views are harmful for them to be found in Slovenia and thus only to worsen the business environment. With this, fewer investors in Slovenia, fewer farmers who would like to stay in Slovenia, fewer entrepreneurs who would like to work in Slovenia. Perhaps there will be more in the neighbouring countries that we actually have. We will support this proposal because it is simply good for farmers and does no harm to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u114	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Also in the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act, we find that the original content relates to a change in the status of a young farmer, which is also foreseen in this law at 37 years of age. As in the previous law of the same proposer, we would like to point out that the status of a young farmer is defined in the Agricultural Lands Act and also in the European Parliament Regulation, which lists the term "young farmer" as a person who is less than 40 years old, for example when he is making an application for the regulation of a particular issue. At the very beginning, we are faced with a fact that this law would in fact not be feasible or at least unclear, which is not good for the situation of the agricultural economy. With regard to other content relating to value added tax. The proposal foresees that the agricultural economies would be exempt from accounting obligations, with a €15 000 price – this threshold currently amounts to €7 000,500. It should be said that this instant at the threshold of €7 000 500 is included in the management of accounting of 0.6% of Slovenian farms. In doing so, we can find that the cadastral income also represents the size of a farm that is well above 20 or even 30 hectares. So it's hard to talk about small farms. These are larger farms with regulated business status as well as book management. In fact, the adoption of this law would lead to additional uncertainty as to who would even be liable to keep books. Before such a change, we believe that the implementation of the current legal solution or the threshold of EUR 7 000 500 should be closely monitored. If this analysis shows that this places an enormous burden on the agricultural economy and imposes excessive administrative obstacles on them, it would also make sense to adapt this tax system to the agricultural economies. Since we do not currently have such an analysis, this law has also been supported by us to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u116	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, tabled by Ambassador Andrej Chus, is meaningfully linked to the amendment of the Income Act of the same proposer. This is a pursuit of the aim of reducing tax and administrative pressures on Slovenian farms. The New Value Added Tax Law raises income limits for compulsory accounting of DDD from €7 000 500 of the cadastral income of all members of the farm household to €15 000 and consequently exempts the mandatory management of accounting for a larger round of Slovenian farms. However, all persons with the status of a young farmer up to the age of 37 years shall be exempt from the compulsory payment of value added tax for a period of three years from the acquisition of the farm. We see that the provisions of this bill help young farmers on the one hand and, on the other hand, contribute significantly to competitiveness for the operation of slightly smaller Slovenian farms. If we want to provide Slovenian farmers with a competitive environment, it is certainly good to study the good practices of one of the other countries. If we look at neighbouring Austria, we find that taxation of agricultural activities is, in principle, flat-rate. The flat-rate tax base is determined on the basis of the uniform value of the farm based on the valuation of land and other production conditions, such as the size of the plant or the transport position. As a result, the unit value also includes payments under agricultural policy measures, but these are not taxed on the basis of the amounts actually received. Completely flat-rate income recognition applies to farms up to a tax value of EUR 75 000, of which the tax base is 39%. Farms worth between €75 000 and €130,000 are subject to partial flat-rate income recognition by keeping a record of revenue and recognising standardised expenditure. The management of simple accounting is foreseen between 130 000 and 150 000 Euros of tax value. Only more than 150 000 euros in tax value or, in the case of more than 400 000 euros in annual transport, double accounting is mandatory. The proposal of this law at least improves the competitive position of our farms in a certain segment compared to neighbouring Austria. Colleagues and colleagues! We have a common European agricultural policy in the European Union. Here it would make sense that Slovenia actually draws closer to tax legislation and to the bureaucratic provisions themselves to those countries which are actually beneficial to the farmer, therefore, competitive. Given that the Government and the ruling coalition obviously do not have a hearing for agricultural policy, otherwise it would have voted that this law is suitable for further consideration and would have improved the law in the next parliamentary procedure, because there is actually a need for improvement, this is in some way a blow to Slovenian agriculture. Since Slovenian agriculture is based on family farms, it is also a blow or ignorance of Slovenian families. We have a very schizophrenic situation. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the first at this Ministry speaks Buy, let's buy Slovenian! Yeah, what if it's too expensive? However, if products from other countries are cheaper and certainly as good as those from other countries. Once in this area, it will be necessary to put matters in the right place, but we certainly cannot expect this from this government suit. Also in addressing this amendment of the value added tax law, the coalition proposed at the meeting of the parent working body and adopted a decision that the proposal was not suitable for further consideration. Unfortunately, this also means a message to the entire Slovenian public that the ruling coalition has no hearing to relieve the Slovenian farmer. As we are aware of the difficult situation of many Slovenian farms in Novi Slovenija, we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u118	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 38. On the day-to-day basis, this is an on-the-spot proposal for the adoption of the Authentificum Explanation of the third paragraph 33. Member of the Bank Stability Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u119	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! At the end of November 2016, you adopted a decision proposing that a proposal be submitted to the National Assembly for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, in order to determine responsibility for acts for which an absolute limitation period has not elapsed at the time of the commencement of the period under the sectoral law in order to apply the provisions of Article 33(3) of the Act. [[Incomprehensible]] The decision was taken at the end of the interim report on the parliamentary investigation carried out with regard to Factor Bank, Probank and Banka Slovenije, which concludes that there is a legal ambiguity in different interpretations as regards the exercise of compensation for members of administrations, supervisory councils and other responsible individuals. In the first instance, the case-law, otherwise unlawful, lists out-of-date deadlines under the Bond Code, which are considerably shorter, while the aim of the legislator was to provide for longer limitation periods by specific law in order to prevent those responsible for the creation of the bank hole from being held liable on the basis of outdated. In order to eliminate the confusion and different interpretations, the Government proposes an authentic interpretation of this Article. Avoiding liability on the basis of obsolescence would constitute an act and a violation of the general principle of compensation law, which states that everyone is responsible for his or her conduct and the damage caused. The recovery of the damage is in the public interest, as the recovery of this damage from the budget directly affects the implementation of policies in the economic, social, demographic and other fields of operation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u120	The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 37th session. 5. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In its opening remarks, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance gave reasons for the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation and explained that the purpose of the proposal is to remedy the confusion with regard to Article 33(3) of the Law on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The Legislative and Legal Service presented its findings in the written opinion and stated that the National Assembly shall adopt an authentic explanation when the legal standard is unclear. The Service pointed out that, in order to understand the provision properly, a language interpretation was sufficient, since the text of the provision could already understand its proper meaning. The department doesn't think there's any need for an authentic explanation. With regard to the admissibility of the authentic interpretation, however, the service has no comments, since the authentic interpretation does not extend or alter the meaning of the legal norm. Following an introductory explanation by the representatives of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee has moved on to consider whether the proposed authentic interpretation of the law should be adopted. Following the discussion, the Committee moved to a decision and adopted a decision: The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considers that an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is necessary. The Committee adopted that decision by 14 for and no one opposed. On the basis of the decision adopted, the Committee went on to examine the text of the authentic interpretation of the law. On the basis of Article 150(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also adopted its amendment proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. Since the Committee had already carried out its substantive discussion on the text of the authentic interpretation proposal in the course of the discussion on the above-mentioned proposal for a decision, it also immediately proceeded to the vote on the following proposal for a decision: the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33 of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and the amendment of the Committee amending the entire text of the authentic interpretation. The Committee adopted the above with 14 for and would not object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u122	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u123	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the article of the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this law, which has also been dealt with by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, is an article of the law, one of the key in the adoption of the Bank's Stability Act, to increase crime by a factor of four. Article 1: “Members of the Management Board shall be liable to any suspicion of criminal conduct by members of the management bodies and members of the supervisory authorities of the banks and the supervisory authorities of the banks that they are aware of in respect of the performance of their work, in particular when reviewing the credit cards referred to in Article 11, paragraph 9, of this Law, to be notified to the competent authorities immediately.” There are more reasons for an authentic explanation, as we have mentioned. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with the explanation that the law and article must be understood by the fact that the limitation periods for damages incurred prior to the entry into force of this law and before its entry into force have not yet expired, a quadruple of the general limitation periods laid down by this law governing offences and the law governing bond relations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, once again, we are convinced that this was one of the grounds for the adoption of the existing law and that it is necessary for the National Assembly to adopt this authentic interpretation, in order not to come forward in the future, I will say directly to the abuse of this, but that it is particularly important to stress that Slovenia is the only one of the transition countries that has already restored the banking system twice at the expense of taxpayers. The last recovery cost more than €5 billion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not sure whether this number is definitive. We do not rule out the possibility that this number will increase further. True and fair, those who misused this system are in fact responsible for it. However, we all know what it was like, and that in the event that old administrations, such as the Factor Bank and Probank, had acted, in fact, the announcements of potential crimes or indemnifications could not have been made. We are confident that this authentic explanation will also be supported by the National Assembly in its vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u124	Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much, madame. Very briefly. At the end of last November, we decided to submit a proposal to the National Assembly for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the ZUKSB or the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The decision was taken when an interim report on the parliamentary investigation was examined concerning the Factor Bank, Probanka and Banka Slovenije. It was clear that there was legal uncertainty as to the determination of the liability of members of administrations, of supervisory councils and that a variety of interpretations were taking place. The problem arose in practice when the courts referred to obsolete deadlines under the Bond Code and not under Article 33 of the ZUKSB at the first stage, or not legally. However, the prosecution of banking crime has begun, and we feel it is imperative that we dispel all doubts as to the discretion of the individual judge, by which law he will decide on the limitation of time limits for individual claims. The aim of the legislator is to ensure a longer limitation period so that those responsible for creating the bank hole cannot hide or avoid liability on the basis of outdatedness. This seems to us to be of great importance in the Desus Group because the culprits for the creation of the bank hole must be brought to justice. The fact is, in the authorities of the management and control of banks, the functions of the people who have committed their actions, as well as the abandonment of acts responsible for causing damage, have long been performed. Let there be no doubt, we are strictly following the commitments of the coalition treaty in our Group. One of the key issues in the Coalition Treaty is the responsibility for the resulting bank hole, which must be defined, and it must insist not only on the moral one that is very shallow, but also on the compensation and material responsibility of the members of the administrations and the supervisory boards of the banks that have been recapitalised with tax money. In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation, as supported by Desus' representative on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u126	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you once again for your word and once again for your greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. With regard to the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia for the stability of banks, which relates mainly to the deterioration of so-called banking crime, I would like to point out in the introduction the fact that it would be most appropriate to write down in the Constitution, that banking crime cases in Slovenia do not become obsolete, because we need to know that banking crime somehow occurs cyclically, given the financial and economic crises which are being encouraged in the financial world sector and that it is always the burden of such recovery and also banking crime that falls on countries and consequently on citizens and citizens. It is a constant process that has been repeated several times in the history of mankind and is likely to happen in the future. But right now we have before us the fact that in Slovenia we have passed a law on measures for bank stability, which in Article 33 also touches on the ageing of cases that took place before the adoption of the law on measures for bank stability and in the courts, as we have already seen, in all these cases, in particular in banking processes, whether there is a need to take into account obsolete deadlines in accordance with legislation that deals with such cases, or under this specific law on bank stability measures. Undoubtedly, it is necessary to take into account the law on measures for the stability of banks, but this ambiguity has emerged in practice, so it is right that the National Assembly adopts an authentic interpretation stating that it is necessary to understand that the limitation periods for claims incurred prior to the entry into force of this Act and before its entry into force have not yet expired, a quadruple of the general limitation periods laid down by the law governing the offences and the law governing the bond relations. According to the local authorities, instead of being obsolete in 10 years, this period is certainly only 40 years after this authentic explanation. This is also an important contribution to allow judicial proceedings to end when it comes to a justifiable determination of banking crime by punishing the perpetrators. This deadline will allow the courts to define themselves clearly within 40 years. It would be very important, however, that this will not take 40 years, but that this has been established, say, in four years, as it was in Iceland. We'll support the authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u128	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! We all know that billions of euros of taxpayer money have disappeared in Slovenian banks. With such disastrous financial consequences, it is, to say the least, strange that we cannot find the culprits after all this time. We can't find it or we won't find it. It seems that in Slovenia the same rules do not apply to everyone. For a minor offence, every citizen has to pay a fine quickly, which is right. On the other hand, the causes of the bank hole continue to walk freely across Slovenia and beyond, which is not right. However, at a hearing at the parliamentary investigative commission, a number of people suddenly lose their memory. On the one hand, the bank's claim management company, for example, requires additional payments from the unpaid subcontractors of Vegrad. On the other hand, no one claims anything from bank-hole agents. It is understandable that citizens feel great disappointment and anger. Double criteria in people raise doubts about the power of the rule of law and raise questions about whether we even know the principle of legality in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why the pursuit of conduct leading to a bank hole should be one of the priorities of the activities of the investigating, prosecution and prosecution bodies. In Novi Slovenije we have already proposed the introduction of specialised courts by law, so that the most experienced judges can deal exclusively with banking crime. Similarly, we have proposed the establishment of a Department of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, which would deal solely with the treatment of banking crime. These solutions would ensure that actions within prosecution, investigation and prosecution procedures in banking crime cases are carried out by the competent persons most qualified to do so, which would bring about an important strengthening of the judiciary and the judiciary. The activities of the most qualified persons within the banking departments would ensure a higher level of specific focus, improve the flow of specific skills and give the departments clear responsibility for dealing with one of the most demanding forms of crime. Responsible judges and prosecutors could devote themselves exclusively to banking crime, thus eliminating their burden on other broad areas of criminal law. The proposal for an authentic interpretation, which we have on the table today, clearly provides that a quadruple of the general limitation periods set out in Article 33 of the Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks shall also apply to claims arising before and before the entry into force of this Act. The possibility of pursuing the actions that have led to consequences in banks, as we see them today, also contributes to the extension of the limitation periods laid down in this law and clearly defines the proposal for this authentic interpretation. That is why, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u130	The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Center, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Several predecessors referred to the text in force of Article 33(3) of the Law on Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability, which was short-circuited by ZUKSB. If I repeat this briefly, the criminal offences and liability of members of the administrations and supervisory boards shall expire within an limitation period of four times the general statutes of limitation laid down by this law governing offences and the law governing bond relations. So it's a quadruple of general obsolescence. As a proposal for this text, the Government already stated in its explanatory memorandum to this article: “In order to determine the responsibility for the current situation in the financial system, this article provides for longer limitation periods of criminal offences and compensation for the liability of the management and members of the supervisory boards of banks with regard to the management of their functions in banks.” In the opinion of many, this provision is clear and understandable, and you probably agree, but some do not. In view of the different and contradictory interpretations, the National Assembly, having considered the interim report of the Investigative Commission on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, unanimously adopted a decision which, in point 5 of Article 149 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes that all those who may propose the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure be submitted to the National Assembly in order to determine the responsibility for acts for which the absolute limitation period under the Act has not yet expired, shall apply the provisions of Article 33(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Government responded and submitted to the National Assembly a proposal of an authentic explanation answering questions if I make it simpler whether the limitation periods referred to in Article 33(3) of the ZUKSB apply to compensation claims arising before the entry into force of the ZUKSB and before the date of entry into force have not yet expired. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy unanimously adopted the conclusion that an authentic declaration is necessary, an amendment leaving a reference to the law governing offences, since retroactivity in criminal offences is not permissible, and an authentic interpretation that reads as follows: “Article 33(3) of the ZUKSB should be understood to mean that the limitation periods for compensation claims arising prior to the entry into force of this Act have not yet expired, a quadrupling of the general limitation periods laid down by the law governing the bond relations.” By adopting this authentic interpretation, the National Assembly would finally and nevertheless adopt a completely clear, understandable and completely unambiguous interpretation of Article 33, paragraph 3, of the ZUKSB, and we will therefore support the proposal of an authentic interpretation and an amendment in the modern Centre's Group of the Parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u132	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation, the text of the authentic interpretation and the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which fully replaces the proposed text. First of all, Mr. Joseph Horvat has the word to prepare Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I remember when, in 2012, when we were part of the government coalition, we co-ordinated the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. At that time, the opposition collected signatures, threatened with a referendum, and in the coalition, we were somehow united in our opinion, probably in particular or because of this Article 33 of the Act, the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Why? Because a lot of people started shaking their pants. If you read this whole article 33, you will see that the management of the bank's claim management company has an important duty, an official duty to state the suspicions of the crimes it identifies in commercial banks where bank holes have been created, after domestic or non-profit claims. In December last year, so at the December meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the Minister of Finance, through an oral question, and asked the question: “The Thirtyth Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks regulates the responsibility of the members of bank management and supervision bodies and bank supervision bodies. The first paragraph of this Article, i.e. Article 33, lays down for the members of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company the obligation to immediately disclose suspected offences to the competent authorities of the management, control and supervision of the banks that it has become aware of in carrying out its work. The second paragraph of Article 33, however, provides for the suspension or termination of the employment relationship for criminal reasons as a sanction for the suspension of this duty.” Therefore, rather harsh provisions in this Article 33. I was therefore interested in the number of suspected criminal offences in accordance with Article 33, paragraph 1, of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which was already announced by the members of the Management Board of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the competent authorities. I stress, it was December 2016. The Minister's response was correct, very short. I am glad that she operated on the numbers, saying that the Bank Management Company announced to the National Investigation Authority by December 2016 57 irregularities and 6 complaints. Any layman can ask himself at this mega bank hole, which was created by the taxpayers, which, of course, means a fantastic developmental bar for this country, only, in my opinion, only 57 reported NPU irregularities and only 6 complaints. And then the continuation of my question of how many people from the DUB management have been sanctioned if they have abandoned their official obligation, i.e. the implementation of Article 33 of the Law, whether someone has been sanctioned or whether the employment contract has been terminated. None. Because of Article 33. Sometimes we say that we have bad legislation and the citizens mainly point to this house, to us Members, that there is bad legislation and so on. I think that this law is actually very good, and this authentic interpretation that we are adopting today has actually been presented in the spirit of the legislator at the end of 2012. However, it is also right that we have clearly written it down. So this is how these things work, which, when we talk about Slovenian justice, about the rule of law, we are all disappointed. And it is true, and that is what people tell me, it is true that in the country it is practical to look for “banksters” who drill a bank hole, practically the most serious of all is the parliamentary commission of inquiry led by Dr. Anžet Logar, who is in some way a toothless tiger. A lot of work is being done to investigate these irregularities. I believe and I know that the final report will be extremely good. I also wish that, on the basis of this final report of the parliamentary inquiry, someone would also be sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u134	Dr. Ange Logar has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mag. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go, Dr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I wouldn't agree with the forerunner that we're a toothless tiger because we're not a tiger. In essence, the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry is doing nothing but a job of warning and identifying the irregularities and responsibilities of political actors. However, due to an ineffective system of prosecution, it also essentially identifies individual offences which should already be identified in the operating system. I think it must be repeatedly stressed that the primary role and the task of the “bankmasters” to go once where their place is, is to get to know more closely what prison bars and those spaces with limited movement. The primary task is to prosecute authorities, criminals, NPUs, prosecutors and in the final phase of the judiciary. When these subsystems or these key systems of the state operate, there will be no need for any investigative commission. Given that the mandate is ending, and since no one among us can be satisfied with the tendency to prosecute this worst form of economic crime in our banks, I fear that a commission of inquiry on this subject will have to be established again in the next term. Again just so that this darkness will not be extinguished. I have already said many times, and I would stress once again that if the Commission of Inquiry had not been established in this mandate, we would no longer be talking about the bank hole today, we would be in the spirit of discussion. Let's let what happened once, let's focus so that this doesn't happen again in the future. That was roughly the case even with the statement of your government's internal minister or current government that we should stop dealing with what has been happening so far, because we cannot fix it anyway, let's focus on not going to happen again. I personally am personally at this debate today, and I am extremely happy with this point as well. If we are toothless tigers, today's debate gives us at least one tooth if I use this parable that my forerunner used. Finally, there is something that the Commission of Inquiry has proposed to the National Assembly, where members of the Commission of Inquiry have unanimously found that there are anomalies in judicial practice, not to take account of what the National Assembly has adopted, and that the spirit of the Law on Measures for the Stability of the Banking System is not taken into account. I am also very pleased that the Ministry of Finance has taken on a proactive role here and has prepared this authentic interpretation of this Article. In general, I can say that the Commission of Inquiry with the Ministry of Finance is very cooperative, and even when we ask for some materials, we are able to get them to the extent required. I can't say for example about any other organs or banks. There are significant problems in obtaining these materials. Why is this explanation necessary, this special explanation of this 33rd front? If you look at the case-law, the judges shall not take this Article into account in the compensation proceedings or by regular procedure and shall calculate the objective and subjective limitation periods under the Bond Act. And indemnifications are falling due to the statute of limitations or to those actions brought by the judges, such as the Merkur case, the Factor Bank, where Judge Maja Letonja did not take this Article into account at all in her explanation, but concluded that the limitation periods are calculated after that three or five-year limitation period, not with a quadruple as provided for by the ZUKSB. And it is this case law that calls for the judges to say: “Guys and girls, decide as the legislator intended.” And if this purpose, for me, is very clear, the 33rd articles cannot be understood, then the legislator obviously has to write to them in large letters on a large paper: “Decision according to the purpose of the law and understand as the legislator intended to prepare this law.” This change will have an important impact on the way in which those who prosecute banking crime and prepare compensation actions and those who are affected by it are, that is, bankers. I guarantee you the difference between having a feeling that in three years or five years, a story will wear off, or if you know that story won't get old for another 20 years. It's an essential difference. I believe, optimist, as I have always believed, that in a judicial cycle this productivity and the effectiveness of the rule of law will improve to a not too long period. There is likely to be some improvement in 20 years. And if someone is responsible for damages over a period of 20 years, a little less appropriate or sleeps well than if they feel that it will be obsolete in the next month anyway. In these cases, at least in determining banking crime, this longer limitation period is particularly important. I'll tell you why. Only after 2013 did all of this start to be discovered in banks, only after the state recapitalisation. Regardless of how banking governance structures changed, internal banking crime has always been covered. You know, "brothers and arms." We're bankers, we're not gonna beat those in front of us. Go look at the bank's damages and criminal charges before 2013. Practically nonexistent. The figures previously listed by colleague Horvat are all after the recapitalisation, after the introduction of the ZUKSB and after the change of administrations. Only after the extraordinary administrations came in and when the taxpayers paid for those jobs that they carried out in banks to the supervisory boards in front of their eyes, regulators in front of their eyes, did the company somehow get the idea that someone should answer. The bankers hold together, but maybe they'd call someone to account. If it is not until the end of 2013, that is to say 2014-2015, that is to say, the irregularities of banks have actually begun to be detected, you can easily calculate them. Indemnity responsibility – subjective responsibility for three years, objective responsibility for five years. So since 2013 it has been three years 2016. The largest deadline of five years, when all is old, is 2018. And then in 2018, all the things that happened in 2013 would fall. Not to mention those that happened in 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009, and so on. This law, or this authentic interpretation, is necessary in order to give the judicial authorities sufficient time to investigate matters and to sanction those responsible for this bank hole accordingly. If I said earlier that cooperation with the Ministry of Finance is and I also welcome this pro-activity of the Ministry of Finance, I must say that I am disappointed with the Ministry of Justice. While the Minister of Justice in one particular case is speaking if she is too old to fly heads, it seems to me that in other areas, such as banking crime, she is very sleepy. We, I think that this was the fifth decision on Article 33, in a partial report from the Commission of Inquiry, which was confirmed here in November in the National Assembly, mentioned, inter alia, what was supported by 75 votes, the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of financial crime. I wonder where the Ministry of Justice's pro-activity is. I would like to say that unless a specialised court for the prosecution of financial or banking crime is established, the prosecution of banking crime will be very difficult in the area of criminal work. If, for one article, paragraph 33, because the judges misinterpret it, we were obliged or had to make an authentic explanation, depending on how the current case law is applied, each article should be authentically interpreted for the judges of the criminal code to be able to convict bankers. In this respect, only specialization in a court where only a few judges specialize in a few specific cases can produce fruit in essence. Why were they so successful in Iceland? Because they specialized very quickly. Although they did make a specialized prosecution there, I say the focus was not on the regular part of the judiciary, but on the special group. This should also be done in Slovenia. It is incomprehensible that 75 Members supported the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, which provided or proposed the establishment of a specialised court, when Nova Slovenija prepared a set of legislative proposals, where the establishment of a specialised court was also against. For me, it's an incomprehensible revolution in the position of the coalition. I think that the Minister of Justice could cut this off with self-initiativeism, such as the Ministry of Finance, to propose this solution to the establishment of a specialised court, because then perhaps the coalition would support this solution and the commission of inquiry, although a toothless tiger, would get another tooth. Slowly, with two teeth, which must be one above, one below, because otherwise only in gum bites, this vehicle of persecution of banking crime and the establishment of an appropriate infrastructure base would have moved forward so that the taxpayers would finally begin to believe that the EUR 2 000 500 they gave out of their pocket to recapitalise the banks was not in vain. To preserve Slovenia above water and ultimately to win that those who are guilty of creating a bank hole are ultimately responsible for the creation of the largest robbery in the history of independent Slovenia. I guarantee you that today many of them sleep peacefully, more calmly than you Members, when you are preparing for individual agenda items. If you were willing to conclude such transactions with the criminal underworld at the expense of the bank's money, knowing that the credit will not be returned and can then sleep peacefully, you can still sleep peacefully today when the court mills are grinding extremely slowly and when individual judges do not interpret the legal provisions in accordance with the legislator's purpose. That is why today's point of view and the vote on the authentic interpretation of Article 33 will be important because, at least in a certain part, it will be clear that things are changing, that in a certain part of the matter becomes more rigorous, more serious and that they can slowly begin to sleep less peacefully, and we can slowly see that the law or purpose of the legislator has been achieved. I'm telling you, in the pursuit of banking crime, the state of law is either standing or falling. The task of the legislator, Parliament, us parliamentarians is to do everything in our power to believe in the rule of law, to use cases such as the authentic interpretation of individual articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u136	We have one more and one last debater, and that's mag. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will begin with words often used by interrogators when they say "I don't remember". My colleague Horvat warned me about this in his position. I don't remember what happened in 2012 when this provision was adopted in the National Assembly, but I remember what I was thinking when I went back to looking at the explanation of this article. This was then Article 32, which was later renumbered as Article 33. I thought it couldn't be true. I went to my brother the second time, the third time, the feeling stayed the same. Why? It's because of what I said in my position. The explanation of the article states that this provision is there in Article 33(3) in order to determine the responsibility for the present situation in the financial system. This Article provides for longer limitation periods of criminal offences and for compensation liability. In addition to the fact that, in the text itself, the article states that criminal offences and indemnity are overstated within an limitation period of four times the general statute of limitation, i.e. the Penal Code and the Bond Code. This surprise was also confirmed in some way by an interviewing witness, Mrs Jasna Iskra, head of the legal department at Banka Slovenije, who, among other things, is at a public hearing, now I am talking only about the public part of the hearing, in some part also under the terms of recognition of part of Banka Slovenije's responsibility, it is said over time for the formation of a bank hole. However, with regard to the interpretation of this provision, she said exactly what the explanation of the article said and, most importantly, that if she were a judge, she would, not likely, but certainly do otherwise. From what was the basis for the hearing, and these are undoubtedly the decisions of the courts to which Logar warned, and if this is said by such an eminent lady as the Head of the Bank of Slovenia Legal Department, then something is not right here. What's wrong is today we're correcting with the amendment as an authentic explanation. At this point, I cannot express my hope, or even my expectation that the courts will interpret this provision in this way, as we now provide with an authentic explanation. However, I would like to mention and point out what, in the debate in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Legislative and Legal Service in the work relating to courts has to say. She pointed out that the applicant, in this case the Government, but it seems that we will adopt all the reasons for the Government's authentic interpretation, so the ZPS points out that the applicant does not mention the recurring problems by applying this provision in the legal decisions of the courts or non-consistentity and raises the question of the branches of power how far the National Assembly can go in this particular case. I have already told the committee, and my opinion is still that in this particular case - I am not talking about specific judgments, I am talking about the specific provision of Article 33(3) - this is not a disproportionate intervention by the National Assembly in the work of the courts. I wouldn't mention any judgment here either. The media has written about this, not just one, about more of them, so it's in some way a recurring lack of consistency. But I would not, as I say, say, say that in any way I wish to influence the specific decisions of the courts. The judgments are not yet binding, the proceedings are ongoing and, last but not least, the question of whether the National Assembly is unduly interfering with the Courts' Institute of Authentic Interpretation will be answered by a court of law. As far as we are concerned in the courts, Mr Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, joined us just before that, which I must take to the defence. The Minister has already talked about specialised courts and visits to Iceland in the National Assembly. At that time we were assured that, together with other stakeholders, including the Bank of Slovenia and other experts, they are preparing the basis for the establishment of specialised courts. I must also express my own expectation that this will happen in this mandate. I hope it's very fast. I don't think I can say anything wrong if I say that this assurance was given by Minister Klemenčič and that this will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u138	We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the Government, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tilen Bozič, gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. I would only use it to thank Members and Members for their positive adoption of the solution to the authentic interpretation put into the parliamentary procedure by the Government, and you have then completed it a little. It appears that this solution, or such an explanation, will allow, at least so far, many cases to appear, unfortunately, when the possibility of imposing compensation liability in relation to members of administrations, supervisory councils and other responsible individuals who have contributed to the fact that this so-called bank hole has been manifested to the extent that it actually is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u140	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, the text of an authentic interpretation or the amendment to the text of an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law to determine reciprocity within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister of Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u141	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! The applicable Mutuality Act was adopted in February 1999. This is a law governing the method and procedure of determining reciprocity as a special condition for the acquisition of the property rights of foreigners in properties in the Republic of Slovenia. Since the adoption of a law that has not changed significantly in all this time, a number of things have happened. Article 68 of the Constitution has changed, Slovenia has acceded to certain international integrations and has concluded several EU, OECD and so on. As a result of these changes, the Ministry of Justice, under this law, currently generally recognises reciprocity only in cases where property rights are acquired by nationals of EU candidate countries. Earlier this, according to the domestic statement, was all foreigners, today the law is limited only to the citizens of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. The amended regulation on both the rights of foreigners to acquire property rights in our country and the experience after the long implementation of the law has shown that there are a number of unnecessary administrative obstacles to the law adopted in 1999 that this is no longer adapted to the changed conditions of Slovenia's integration into the European Union and amended Article 68 of the Constitution and the accession to the OECD. And that dictated the adoption of a new law. The draft law thus amends the amended provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and other international treaties to which Slovenia has acceded. Unnecessary administrative burdens are eliminated and legal procedures for determining reciprocity are streamlined. So much for a little while. Since the conditions are met, I propose to the National Assembly that it also carry out a third examination of the law in this reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u142	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear fellows! The Justice Committee is at its 37th session. 5. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on mutuality submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 24. 2. 2017. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the Court of Justice, of the opinion of the City of Novo mesto and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure. Ms Tina Brecelj, representative of the proposer and secretary of state at the Ministry of Justice, said in an additional explanation of the articles that the 1999 Mutuality Act in force had survived, as the current regulation on the rights of foreigners to acquire property rights on immovable property in the Republic of Slovenia had changed considerably from its application to today. Thus, the proposal represents a harmonisation of the current regime with other rules, a removal of administrative burdens and a rationalisation of the reciprocity procedure, which will allow for faster and easier enforcement of the rights of the parties. It also no longer lays down the Government's reporting obligations to the National Assembly, and the record of decisions issued will be published on the websites of the Ministry of Justice. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments made in their written opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Commission also supported the proposal and considered that the proposed regulation would better regulate the area under consideration. The Committee was also informed of the written opinion of the Court of Justice and had no comments on the draft law. In the debate, Members were particularly interested in statistics on reciprocity. The amendments to Articles 11 and 14 of the SMC, Desus and SD were also proposed below. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we voted on all the articles of the bill together. The Committee fully supported the amendment bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u144	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! The 1999 Mutuality Act has survived since the current regime on the rights of foreigners to acquire property rights on immovable property in the Republic of Slovenia has changed considerably from its application to today. On the basis of the provisions currently in force, it is no longer possible to draw up a report containing absolute information on the number of foreigners who have requested and acquired property rights in Slovenia. The current law also contains a number of obstacles that would make the procedure under the law of reciprocity faster and more effective. The proposal for a law shall be adapted to the amended decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the acquisition of property rights on immovable property and shall comply with other relevant provisions, the Real Law and the Land Book Act. In addition, it removes a number of administrative burdens and rationalises the process. The party in the proceedings will therefore no longer be obliged to attach a land register, the Ministry of Justice, as the contractor of the reciprocity procedure, will obtain it only after the official duty. Nor will a foreigner be required to declare for what purposes he acquires property, nor is the submission of the document of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia envisaged. The reporting to the National Assembly is suspended twice a year, as these reports are not integrated, but will be published twice a year in the future Ministry of Justice on its website on what the results were. With a view to shortening the procedure, the law no longer provides for a complaint against the decisions but only an administrative dispute. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we support adaptation to the changes and rationalisation of the regime, so we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u146	I give my word to the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Mutuality Act, which is before us, governs the method and procedure for determining reciprocity as a condition for the acquisition of property rights of foreigners and foreign countries on property in Slovenia. Reciprocality will still need to be determined for each property separately under the new law, and the so-called principle of material reciprocity will still apply. In accordance with this principle, a Slovenian national in a foreign country may acquire property rights on property under the same or similar conditions as that for the acquisition of property rights on property in Slovenia. The law brings the provisions into line with Article 68 of the Slovenian Constitution. Foreigners from certain countries may have the same status as Slovenian nationals in accordance with these constitutional provisions in the acquisition of property rights on immovable property, but only if the basis is the law or international treaties. In these cases, the condition of reciprocity does not need to be established. Since this is a case of compliance with constitutional provisions, we do not oppose these changes by Christian Democrats. With regard to the remedy against the decision, a regulation is maintained whereby there is no appeal against the decision and an administrative dispute is possible. Any other arrangement would be inadmissible and contrary to the constitutional order. However, unlike the regulation in force, it is no longer envisaged that, in an administrative dispute, the State Prosecutor would be able to bring an action. Given that the position and the role of the Attorney General falls within the area of criminal law and has the opportunity to raise an administrative dispute already in the municipality and, on the other hand, the Attorney General or the new Attorney of State, we do not object to this amendment. The bill also brings a novelty according to which reciprocity does not need to be determined in the event of the acquisition of property rights on the part of the property if the foreigner in the land book is already registered as a co-owner or joint owner on that property. This change brings meaningful simplification and prevention of duplication of administrative procedures, so we do not oppose it in Novi Slovenija. A key novelty is a simplification of the regime when the reciprocity of a foreign country has already been established in the previous case and it is a matter of obtaining ownership of the same type of property in the same area and of equal legal activity. In such a case, the Ministry shall issue a decision establishing reciprocity within thirty days of receipt of the full application to the party, which shall contain only a reduced explanation. In this case, too, we see a meaningful execution of the duplicates of the entire proceedings. If reciprocity for the same type of property in the same area has already been established and it is also an equivalent legal business, we also find it pointless to require long-term procedures to be conducted in full. Having gained experience with the proposed arrangement, it may also be appropriate to consider an even more simplified model of finding reciprocity in such cases. In Novi Slovenije we will mainly support the proposal for a law on mutuality due to administrative simplification.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u148	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Teja Ljubič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u149	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister, a very nice greeting to all! Since the adoption of the current reciprocity law, almost 20 years have passed. The application of this law then laid down a type of reciprocity which was a condition for the acquisition of the property rights of foreigners on properties in Slovenia laid down in Article 68 of the Constitution, and the procedure and competence to determine it was also regulated by such adoption of the law. However, since almost 20 years is certainly a long time, many regulations have changed during this time, which have had a significant impact on the regulation of the rights of foreigners so that they can acquire property rights in our country. Changes in the normative field are necessary both because of the experience and observations that arise in the implementation of the provisions of this Act itself, as well as because of the harmonisation of the law with other regulations, and many reasons also stem from the rationalisation of the reciprocity process itself and the removal of the administrative barriers created by the legislation in force. Today, citizens of the EU, EEA and OECD Member States may acquire real estate in the territory of Slovenia on the basis of all legal bases under the same conditions as nationals of Slovenia, and in order to acquire property rights in properties in the Republic of Slovenia they do not need a decision to establish reciprocity. On the basis of the list of decisions issued by the Ministry of Justice, it is not possible to determine the number of foreigners who become owners of property in Slovenia, nor their nationality. Such a review is significantly clearer in the report on recorded traffic and property prices in border administrative units. This is also a fundamental reason why the current reporting to the National Assembly twice a year by the Government or the Ministry of Justice no longer makes sense. After the proposed amendment, the suspension of the regular reporting of the Ministry of Justice will nevertheless at any time require the preparation of a special report. It will also provide public insight into the situation, as the Ministry will publish statistics on certificates and decisions issued every six months on its website. Reciprocality is also maintained after the proposed solutions for certain cases, and the essential novelty of the proposed solutions is to simplify the regime in cases where the acquisition of property rights based on legal business is concerned and it will be concluded that, with regard to the same type of real estate lying in an equivalent area and as regards the type of legal business, as dealt with in a particular case, it has already been found that there is reciprocity for a foreign country. In such a case, the Ministry shall issue a decision establishing reciprocity within 30 days of receipt of the full application to the party, which shall contain only a reduced explanation. The proposal for a law on mutuality certainly enjoys the support of Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u150	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that my colleagues have already explained precisely enough before me what the amendments to the Mutuality Act are, I will be very brief. The current regulation on the rights of foreigners in Slovenia provides that they may acquire property rights on immovable property. This legislation has changed several times since 1999, except in the field of inheritance. Also by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we are considering a new law because the 1999 law in force, due to significant changes in these contents, no longer corresponds to the current situation in this area. The bill therefore removes the administrative burdens that we have been alerting the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time and rationalises the process of mutuality, allowing for faster and easier enforcement of the rights of the parties. The bill also removes the obligation to report to the Government to the National Assembly, which, although regularly violated by the current government, I must stress this, since it has repeatedly delayed reporting and, in its justification, has merely stated that the provision has become, I quote, 'unreasonable and represents an unnecessary administrative burden because it does not reach its purpose'. Regardless of such justification for our apology from 2015 and the fact that the Government has had a change of law in its work programme already in 2016, we have a law to deal with with with no delay just now. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support the proposal of the law, but we will certainly closely monitor its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u152	We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place in the framework of the vote, which is Wednesday, 24. 5. 2017. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the criminal code under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u153	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a amendment to the Penal Code proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption. It means the fifth amendment KZ-1 in a row and contains three main sets of amendments. The first set of amendments concerns changes and additions due to the implementation of recent Council of Europe and the European Union documents, in particular in the area of the incrimination and unification of criminal offences related to terrorism. The Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which Slovenia has already signed, and the recently adopted Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against terrorism and on the replacement of the Council Framework Decision on combating terrorism require amendments to the Slovenian Penal Code, which are prepared in this draft law. The next point or content set is to propose the reintroduction of a foreign expulsion penalty. The third set, however, is about changes in the fight against economic crime. We propose a more appropriate step-up within the criminal offence of harming creditors, more appropriately determining the crime of abuse of position or trust in economic activities and the abuse of official status or official rights, in particular in ensuring a lower level of guilt, not the required direct intent, but the eventual intent. There are more appropriate and clearer signs of offences infringing the fundamental rights of workers and infringements of social security rights. In a similar way, practice has shown that this crime is extremely difficult to prove because of the requirement for direct intent, and by the example of foreign regulations, we reduce this intent to possible slander. It is also important to propose a newly qualified form of crime, the abuse of personal data relating to so-called “revenge porn”, or pornography from revenge, that is to say, the publication of videos and messages with sexual content without the consent of a recorded person. If I finish. The proposed amendment to the Penal Code aims to achieve a more effective response by the State to economic and banking crime, to enhance the protection of workers' fundamental and social rights, to criminalise modern forms of abuse of personal data and to intervene in private matters through a decision and to harmonise offences or incriminations in the field of terrorism with such international instruments in force in the field of Europe. Since the business conditions are met, I propose that a third consideration of the proposed law be held at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u154	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is in session 9. 5. as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Penal Code, where in the opening presentation we first took note of the proposed amendments, which briefly address the problems identified in practice, in particular in the area of the prosecution of economic crime and crimes against labour relations and social security. The novel also follows commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the Council of Europe and the European Union in the field of combating terrorism. The proposed definition of the purpose of punishment further strengthens the principle of humanity of punishment in respect of the fundamental values of the rule of law and establishes general and special prevention and resocialisation in respect of the human dignity and personality of the offender. The Council of State presented the opinion of the committee responsible supporting the proposal of the law, while stressing the importance of further coordination between the Ministry of Justice and trade unions in the area of infringement of employee rights and black work, as well as other solutions resulting from existing practice. The Commission also followed the warnings of the Slovenian Chamber of Lawyers concerning Article 23 concerning the amendment of Article 240 of the Penal Code. In their view, it would be more appropriate to sanction only those intentional acts that cause property damage. It is, in their view, a question of where is the free economic initiative, as provided for in Article 74 of the Constitution. Otherwise, MEPs generally welcomed the proposed solutions in the debate. They were particularly interested in why the applicant did not approach the abolition of life imprisonment and when a special law for juvenile delinquents would be drawn up. This was answered by a ministry representative, Secretary of State of Stara, that the abolition of life imprisonment was considered only in the initial drafting of the law and that the ideas were abandoned because of the opposition of the professional public. At the same time, the committee responsible has informed us that there is a special law for juvenile offenders in the preparatory process and that we will be familiar with it as soon as possible. Finally, the Committee adopted the amendments and all the articles together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u156	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President, again! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In this part, I can afford a little more freedom than in the previous one. The penal code that we accept, although only his novels, is really an important mirror of our community and shows us how we function as a society. Is it enough just to define as criminal provisions what is absolutely self-evident that life is sacred, that we must not steal, that we must not interfere with the rights of others, or that we have come as a society to the point that in the Penal Code I must specifically tighten the provisions that say that we must not interfere with the rights of employment in the social rights of people, that we must talk again specifically about exacerbations and the dissemination of provisions in the field of combating economic crime, because, again, in our community, it is not self-evident that the acquisition of property benefits to the detriment or at the expense of the situation that someone has is simply wrong and wrong. Unfortunately, we also face the need to redefine the acquisition of property benefits through abuse of rights on the part of officials in the new Penal Code. All of this points to what is in our community and should in itself be prohibited, and it is clear that it must not, to this extent, become present that we must resolve the Penal Code. In view of the changed global circumstances, we are unfortunately faced with the fact that, as a special category in this novel, we must consider travelling abroad for the purpose of terrorism, either training or implementation. Unfortunately, we have come to the point where the word tourism and freeway can also be the subject of a judgment, whether someone is going to either create evil somewhere else or to return, capable of creating and spreading evil. I would hope to say that all of this is conditioned also by what I was talking about at the beginning and about which this code speaks very intensely. The fact that it has become more common in our society and in the wider world, even in Europe and the world, is perfectly normal for people to be violated by fundamental rights at work in order to be violated by social rights. And more than today, I believe we will confirm this amendment, or on Wednesday at the vote, it would be important that all the key stakeholders of this society, which we are co-created in one way or another, realize that we will not solve these problems only by means of laws and that the key responsibility remains with all institutions and, above all, with each individual. In particular, we welcome the modernisation of the Penal Code in the work of humanisation and a more modern attitude towards criminal policy, with the aim of addressing the perpetrators, as a result also victims and their families, more comprehensively and with the aim of resocialising and normalising their lives, not merely in the role of repression with a view to punishing and forgetting as soon as possible what has happened. The Social Democrats will, of course, support the proposal for a new Penal Code. How could you not? Stronger persecution of economic crime, even stronger persecution of those who allow themselves to be encroached on the social rights of people. And although with a heavy heart, unfortunately the circumstances are such that we must also support the reintroduction of the possibility of alien expulsion. Unfortunately, as a community, we also face the fact that freedom of movement, when it can be used to do evil to others, is limited to preventing terrorism-related tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u158	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you, President. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Penal Code brings an important change for us, which is probably crucial, and this is the one relating to the exploitation of workers. We have already drawn attention to the urgency of changes in this area as regards the protection of workers' rights. That the exploitation of workers and the violation of their fundamental rights in Slovenia has become practically a daily practice of employers, statistics also prove. More than 33 000 infringements, 11 000 sanctions imposed, EUR 3.3 million of fines imposed is a black picture for 2016, and, of course, with the knowledge, these figures would probably be several times higher if they were to provide an appropriate number of labour inspectors and if they were to be given the appropriate powers. Although the government and the coalition are aware of both the human resources and the financial deficit of this inspectorate, unfortunately there has not been much change in this area to date. We have already heard the emphasis today on how important it is to protect workers' rights, including by the government and the coalition. Whether these desires or these opinions are genuine or a figment in your pocket, we will be able to see for the next month. That is when the proposal of our parliamentary group to amend the Labour Inspection Act will be considered. The amendment of the Penal Code is, on the one hand, an important and major step in the right direction, but without changes in the area of labour inspection, nothing will be in practice changed. Facilitating the prosecution of employers using unacceptable and unacceptable practices cannot, therefore, be the only or only change we will accept in this mandate as regards these problems. As for the other amendments to the Penal Code, we in the United Left were expected to end the life sentence. This solution, in fact, had neither the professional basis nor the support of the profession at the time of the establishment of this institute. In view of the senselessness and inefficiency of the imposition of such a type of punishment, the sole purpose of which is revenge, we certainly expected to accept its abolition today. But here too, apparently, the coalition has hidden itself for this deliberately changed security situation, which in this mandate, not only with us, but just around the world, is becoming a convenient excuse for the wrong measures and in this case the continuation and extension of some kind of repression. This excuse is partly linked to the reintroduction of the sentence of expulsion of a foreigner. The main issue in this regard is ensuring respect for the principle of non-refoulement and the related prohibition of torture. On the Committee, the Government's representatives assured us that all procedures would continue to take place in compliance with these principles. More. The Secretary of State has ensured that it is not possible to have a situation where these principles have been violated in any way. In this part, we will certainly follow closely the implementation of this provision, and if it turns out that it is not so that these principles are actually in breach, we will also act in this direction. As it is said, in the introduction, the essence of this law, at least for us in our optics, is to facilitate the prosecution of exploitative employers. I think it is high time for employers to be sent a clear unequivocal message that making a profit at the expense of exploiting workers is totally unacceptable. It is also high time for the first sentence, which, of course, we look forward to. That's why we're going to support this marriage. At the same time, we warn that this will not solve the problem. Again, without the staffing and financial reinforcement of the labour inspectorate, without the necessary changes to the labour inspection law, this pressure will not be resolved and statistics will not be rectified. The number of infringements will not decrease and the protection of workers will not improve. If the Government and the coalition, at least in part or at least a little bit, are considering how workers' rights are respected, we expect it to prove this in the coming months. First, by supporting the proposed amendments to the Labour Inspection Act and then by increasing the financial resources for the Labour Inspectorate and thus ensuring an adequate number of inspectors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u160	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u161	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code finally addressed the growing threat posed by terrorism to our society. It is unusual that, despite the fact that we have witnessed many horrendous terrorist attacks in the past period, the last of them occurred just yesterday in Manchester, with the preparation of a proposal for these changes has delayed for two and a half years. Finally, we have received a bill setting out a new crime in the area of the prosecution of terrorism. Prisons ranging from one to eight years will punish travel abroad in order to carry out acts of terrorism. Anyone who, while being aware of the purpose of terrorism, organises or even permits such travel shall also be punished with imprisonment from one to ten years. On the other hand, imprisonment will penalize recruitment and the provision or acceptance of training for this purpose. In particular, the functioning of the Islamic State with its network of co-workers has led to the recruitment of many individuals from Europe. These individuals later return to Europe and pose a security risk to our citizens. Unfortunately, so far, we have not had any criminal law instruments for the effective prosecution of persons operating in these terrorist networks. We also welcome Christian Democrats in this way the simplification of proof of the crime of protection and the public promotion of terrorist acts. In line with the proposed change in the handling of this crime, there will no longer be any need to prove the specific purpose of promoting terrorist acts. The Novela of the Penal Code also sharpens the criminal regime of illegal border crossing. Since the Directive of the European Union imposes such an obligation on us, the offence of crossing the border will already be given in the illegal way of bringing a foreigner across the border. In addition, the criminal offence will also be defined as allowing illegal residence in the territory of Slovenia for payment. Smuggling migrants is one of the more common and dangerous crimes in our time. On the one hand, it is based on the exploitation and threat of migrants themselves and, on the other hand, on non-compliance with our legal order, security and state sovereignty. In view of the acute migration situation, we hope that the crimes of illegal border crossings will be carried out by our authorities, in particular the police, even in practice, effectively and in particular strictly. Due to the high rate of technology development, there are also changes in the form of unacceptable and discarding practices, which often appear to be an abuse of private material or private information. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija we welcome the amendment which adds a more stringent form of crime to the public publication of recordings or messages by other persons with sexual content without its consent. In our view, if a person is seriously affected by this, it is only right that a more severe penalty is imposed for this form of criminal offence. In the past, we know cases that have tragically ended with such blackmail and the publication of such materials. We also welcome those measures that are aimed at greater protection of workers from unfair employers. The proposal for the amendment of the Penal Code in the relevant areas of criminal law strengthens the criminal code, so in New Slovenia we will support the amendment of the penal code.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u162	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mr Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u163	Your Honor! One of the basic legal provisions of the criminal area is the Penal Code. Today's amendments to the new Penal Code are more than welcome. By implementing them, we will move forward to strengthening the rule of law, strengthening the responsibility of individuals and the effectiveness of prosecution and criminal responsibility on some of the key elements that plague today's society. The proposed solutions address the problems identified in practice. Above all, these are problems that arise in the pursuit of economic crime and crimes against the employment relationship and social security. The draft amendment therefore deals more with infringements of fundamental workers' rights and social security rights, misuse of trust in economic activities, damage to creditors, abuse of sensitive personal data and terrorism, and introduces some other important solutions. Unfortunately, today too often violations of the fundamental rights of workers are severely violated, so in the Modern Centre Party we welcome higher penalties for mass violations of workers' rights and social security rights, and it will be easier to prove criminal offences, infringement of workers' rights and the imposition of the criminality of damage to creditors, even in cases where the damage to property will amount to less than 50,000 euros. Under existing legislation, only the actual intention of promoting terrorist acts is taken into account for the protection and promotion of terrorist acts, and from now on, the fact that it was a matter of protection or public exaggeration will be sufficient to prosecute. It also defines the offence of travelling for the purpose of terrorism. Today, when the Internet is used every single day and used for all generations, it is a welcome change that lays down a higher-risk penalty for the publication of recordings or for the communication of other persons with sexual content without its consent to publish. We must do our best to prevent such blackmail or harassment. A foreigner's expulsion is also reintroduced and, of course, this must be justified in the circumstances of the offender. These must pose a serious threat to public order or public security. The changes are also intended to facilitate the prosecution of economic crime, particularly in cases of abuse of position or confidence in economic activity, which is one of the most positive developments in the modern Centre Party Group. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party are aware of the importance of the appropriate regulation of criminal sanctions in the most important areas of social life, so today's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u164	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much. There are also amendments to the Penal Code that are about 18 months behind. It is simply because we proposed some solutions in the SDS last year or before last year, in particular those relating to various matters related to the travel of our citizens to areas where the war is raging and where these citizens could or could participate in foreign armies. At that time, the coalition vehemently refused. I believe that the coalition and the minister first look at the signature and then the title of the law and the law, and of course they rejected it all. The procedure for dealing with the law is different with us. We read the law first, and the signature doesn't even matter because the content of the law is important and not a signatory or a proposer. The text that's in front of us is like this. The expulsion of a foreigner from the country — expected, desirable, necessarily long ago, not just now. It's just a real move. Travel abroad for the purpose of terrorism – desirable, expected, too late, necessary. In short, we welcome you. Also in 196, where these crimes are related to workers' rights, the deletion of the word knowingly, I think this is a necessary matter, and we welcome it. The misuse of personal data is also likely to be regulated in the way it is now proposed, okay. In short, we welcome the matter. We are also pleased that the ministry, the minister or anyone has not already submitted to all those mentalists and NGOs and has not abolished the death penalty. Because I believe that this article is more of a backup, but we have it, and it is right that we have it, because Manchester can be in Ljubljana tomorrow or some truck on Prešeren's market. That is why we may just need this article and it is right to have it. In the parliamentary group, as I said at the committee meeting, we have some problems with article 23 – illegal property benefits, slander, possible slander and similar issues. Although we have proposed deleting this article, but according to the State Secretary's explanation, in accordance with what Mr Jenul said on the Committee, it can be concluded that the article is well written, that the article is also correctly written. It is true, Minister, that I must say for the sake of the record, that this article could be misinterpreted by judges, and that proceedings against people in the field of banking crime could be halted. I do not claim that the article is misspelled, the article is correctly written. But the time we accept it is a risky time. It would therefore suggest that the Ministry of Implementation of this Article in practice, in relation to banking crime, is monitoring with all its strengths. And if this article had been misinterpreted, which we believe is possible and possible, in these banking criminal proceedings, to react with some authentic interpretation or amendment of the article or any other. In accordance with our customs to read the law, to compare marriage solutions, whether such marriage solutions are necessary for the state and citizens, we will support this law because we are not a coalition watching the signature and not the content of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u166	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u167	Your Honor! At first glance, the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Penal Code, which we are considering, does not look very extensive in terms of the scope of the articles, but it must be said that the content is an extremely important step forward towards strengthening the rule of law, strengthening the responsibility of individuals and the effectiveness of prosecution and criminal responsibility on some of the key elements that plague today's society. This exacerbates penalties in the most important areas of social life, in particular violations of workers' fundamental rights and social security rights, abuses of trust in economic activities, damage to creditors, abuse of sensitive personal data and terrorism. Given that there are more and more crimes due to technological developments, the proposal for a law is also moving forward in this area over time. The Minister has already spoken more precisely about the changes and additions, so I will focus only on some of the more important areas for the Desus Group. In the Desus Group, we welcome changes in the area of infringements of fundamental workers' rights. We are convinced that proportionality is not sufficiently taken into account by the law in force in infringements of workers' rights, since, for example, the perpetrator who committed the crime against a large number of workers is actually punished in the same way as the one who committed the act against three workers. However, the proposed amendment takes into account the proportionality of the penalty according to the extent and intensity of the infringement. As we read in the media every day, some employers choose the best way to save, since there are usually no worse immediate consequences in the first round. In the hope that this change will help to reduce crime in the field of labour relations and social security in the Desus Group we welcome this amendment to the Penal Code. The fact is that in this area there has been too many violations of the labour legislation which have remained unpunished. The proposal for amendments also strengthens the definition of terrorist offences. The protection and public magnification of terrorist acts will no longer be limited to the actual purpose of inciting terrorist acts, but the fact that it was a matter of protection or public magnification will be sufficient to prosecute. It also defines the offence of travelling for the purpose of terrorism. Next. In Slovenia, for example, we have a crime of abuse of the position in the conduct of economic activity, which is the typical and most frequent crime in the field of economic crime, criminalised by the most severe or evidential form of guilt, that is, the so-called coloured slander. In the new case of a crime of abuse, it will be necessary to prove the situation as possible, not as a direct plot. In other words, today, the Slovenian law enforcement authorities must prove the direct intent of the perpetrator, for example, that he intended to harm the bank, while, for example, in German law, any slander is sufficient, so that the perpetrator was aware of the consequences of his conduct, and in this act or conduct, he agreed. In the Group of Members, we are most convinced that this will facilitate the work of prosecutors mainly in the prosecution of bank crimes. Thus, in the Desus Group, we fully support the proposal of the Penal Code. However, questions were raised in individuals as to the adequacy of the proven possible pattern. For the sake of this, respected and respected, I announce my majority support for the amendments to the Penal Code in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u168	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place in the framework of the vote, which is tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the agricultural collection of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Member of Parliament, Mr Andrej Cuz. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Tomaž Lisc, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you, President for your word. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, submitted by Mr Andrej Čuš, as a working body at the 19th meeting on 4 May. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments on Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law. In addition, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out in her supplementary explanation of the written opinion that the replacement of the current mandatory membership in the Chamber of Voluntary Members into the legal regime introduces a substantial conceptual shift, since the obligation or voluntaryness of the mission represents one of the dark elements of the definition of the system of assembly. Such an important substantive change always requires a comprehensive assessment and consistent legislative implementation, which would be more appropriate in the new law. A representative of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia also participated in the discussion, explaining the reasons why neither the proposals of the Law nor the Chamber nor the Commission support them. The fact is that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber is established by law and that membership is compulsory and a membership to which the Government agrees is paid, which gives the Chamber representativeness. The abolition of compulsory membership would result in a drastic decline in membership, so it would be difficult for the Chamber to remain a representative organisation of farmers. In addition, due to the adoption of previous amendments to the House Law, the number of members decreased by 60,000 and thus also to membership fees. The abolition of compulsory membership would also mean that the Chamber would become a representative of only large farms and no one would represent the interests of small farmers who need the most assistance. In view of the rejection of the Government's opinion and the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, I myself, as Chairman of the Committee, have proposed that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a decision should not be considered as suitable for further consideration, in order to allow both the proposer and the parliamentary groups to present their views at the meeting of the National Assembly itself and that the law may also be voted on. With regard to the proposed decision, some members of the Committee stressed that the proposal for a law on the grounds of defective, incomplete and inadequate solutions is indeed not appropriate for further consideration, but that it is appropriate for the Government and the Chamber to consider the urgent reorganisation of the Chamber. The proposed amendment raises an important question of how to reorganise the assembly system in the future, in order to better follow the needs of small farmers in particular, to participate more actively in increasing self-sustainment and reducing the growth of agricultural land. They also asked why the Chamber does not have an organised forestry service, although forestry is mentioned in the title of the Chamber, whose presence on the ground would be urgently needed. These and other issues will need to be opened as soon as possible, and the initiator of these discussions should be quite the chamber itself. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber is not suitable for further consideration." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u170	In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the bill's proposer, Mr Andre Couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u171	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the representative of the government! Indeed, a few weeks or months ago, I introduced into the parliamentary procedure the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which is of course one purpose, this is the introduction of voluntary membership in the said Chamber. Otherwise, there are far fewer Members and Members who have already supported in the National Assembly today, I think that in the previous reference voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia, and I think this was a step in the right direction, especially if we want to follow and respect the principles of the other Republic of Slovenia as Members and politicians. Just to remind you, under Article 42 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to freely associate with another. I stress once again: freedom. The proposal for this law is not an attack on the agricultural forestry chamber; indeed, it could be taken as an initiative to reflect and improve the services of the said Chamber. Even when we introduced the voluntary membership of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, there was a lot of fear, criticism, attacks on us, who supported this, that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia would fail. Let's see what happened until today. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry continues to function, raised the level of its activities, responds to all activities within the Economic and Social Council, including politics, and there was no entertainment. So, of course, those reasons that have been said or why it opposes this bill are not in place. However, it should also be added that when we accepted voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, already in that mandate of the National Assembly, there were several initiatives to introduce voluntary membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, and there were, of course, arrangements and efforts to put this in place, but unfortunately, the government fell and what happened happened. However, if everything is not as ideal in Slovenian agriculture as some members of the National Council or representatives of the Chamber speak, see, less than 7% of farmers participated last year in the elections of the bodies of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the worlds of agricultural institutions. Less than seven. If that's representative, then we have really low standards. If, for a reason, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber mentions, inter alia, the distance of voters, it is more and more common to hear that it is owned by large farmers and should be more decisive in the negotiations. Therefore, at least in the field, there are calls for voluntary membership in the Chamber following the example of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Even when I am talking to a Slovenian farmer or a young takeover or some professor or other agricultural experts, everyone advocates this model of solution and I do not know why such a proposal has not already been in the National Assembly at least in this reference before. One of the natural farmers who processes about 40 hectares of land stressed: “At our farm we pay about 160 euros in membership fees, but for this money from the chamber we get nothing. For example, when the pig fell, they did not prepare any measures, nor did they help to find a solution. We also had a breeding center for breeding farmers, and their advice was simply to look for internal reserves. They don't stand for a farmer. They don't do anything but collect membership fees. Let membership be voluntary as it is with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia.” The membership of the Agricultural Chamber of Slovenia is mandatory. In the case of natural persons, religious communities and legal persons, the contribution shall be linked to the ownership of agricultural land and forests. The basis for the assessment of the contribution of 4.8 of the cadastral income, when it amounts to more than €106.88, or the lowest membership is 8.35 euros. At the same time, if ever, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber tells farmers that the internal reserves are sufficient, but only this information. The Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber, for example, completed its operations in 2015 with a surplus of revenue over expenditure of up to 300 000 euros, recorded 3.4 million euros in revenue and slightly more than 3 million euros in expenditure. Of course, there is more than one place, given all the problems that are taking place in Slovenian agriculture, there is also a legitimate criticism and a desire to raise labour standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u172	For the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u173	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As presented, the aim of the proposed proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is to abolish the current mandatory membership. The government considers that, by introducing such a change in law and by introducing voluntary membership, the status of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber would change from a public-law to a private-law chamber into an interesting association of those who would pay membership fees. The applicable law defines the position of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which is a person of public law who has public powers to decide on the rights and obligations of members. Compulsory membership, as well as the obligation to pay membership fees, the amount of which is under the control of the State, are legally defined. It follows from the current legal and system regime that the Chamber is a representative body representing the interests of those engaged in agricultural or forestry activities in the broadest sense. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia represents its members and also cooperates with its institutions with an expert opinion on the procedures for regulatory regulation of the economic system, in particular the area of agriculture, forestry and rural development. The Government further considers that the statutory membership and the obligation to pay the membership fee ensure the number of memberships and thus the representativeness of the Chamber. The number of members in the proposed amendment would be drastically reduced and the representativeness, independence and professional functioning of the Chamber would certainly be compromised. The second fact is that the membership resulting from compulsory membership has the character of a public benefit. If the membership of the Chamber were voluntary, the level of membership would also be a matter of agreement between the members, and thus the level of membership should be in proportion to the extent of the activity of the Chamber for which membership is compulsory, and the level of this contribution should be given by the Government on an annual basis. In the light of the above, in the opinion of the Government, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u174	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We will probably all agree that the current state or current arrangement of membership and operation of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not optimal. We can say that although something has already improved in recent years, in Novi Slovenija we believe that there is still a lot of reserve in the operation of the Chamber. We expect something to do with the new government agricultural law, with some concrete changes in the field of public agricultural advisory services. Today we can see the positive consequences of the organisation of voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, also in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we therefore believe that the Slovenian farmer should be allowed the constitutional right to freedom of choice, to choose whether he will be a member of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber or not. Repeatedly we hear Minister Dejan jeedan saying that farmers should decide on this on their own. In fact, we support this position. Although the proposed novel by our fellow Member Cuz is almost identical to the novels that we have already submitted in Novi Slovenija twice in the past, it is much less comprehensive than ours, as it leaves out important provisions regarding the simplification of procedures for the conduct of elections in the offices of the Chamber. The elections are indeed a problem and we cannot say that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber represents a representative of agriculture in Slovenia. This was also discussed by the proposer. Let us look at the rapid results or participation in last year's elections in the offices of the Chamber, when the participation of natural persons was only 6.75%, 6.75%, slightly higher legal persons, 17%. And now we ask ourselves here whether it's still representativeness or not, whether it's actually torture for these farmers, by the way, to go to the polls, and I'm sure that many people who run with cars, vans drive to the polls. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that by voluntary membership he would obtain both a farmer and a chamber that will have to do more, offer more to its members than ever before, and present the interests of all Slovenian farmers more decisively and fairly than ever before. If the chamber is doing well now, there is nothing to be afraid of, for the vast majority of members will certainly be motivated to remain in the chamber as voluntary members. The public agricultural advisory service, financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, will be given the opportunity to make a good leap forward for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer. The New Slovenia Group supports and believes that it is suitable for further consideration. In addition, I would like to add to the comments of the Pomur and Podraval farmers, who in fact explain each year that they contribute a large majority, a large majority of them, I do not know the exact figures, all the revenue from membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and, in their opinion, only the small bits are received. Such and many other anomalies point to the urgent need to regulate the Slovenian agricultural assembly system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u176	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Novela Act on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is part of the package of poorly substantiated and prepared proposals for the laws of the unrelated Member Andrej Cuz. In the SMC Group, it is recalled that in the case of this novelty, it is essentially a semi-product which, in the proposed form, is not even possible to introduce voluntary membership. The applicant does not seem to be aware that the novelty interferes with one of the fundamental elements of the current system of assembly arrangements. Such an intervention or introduction of a new concept requires consistent legislative implementation. The abolition of compulsory membership or the introduction of voluntary membership cannot be introduced with two articles in nine rows. If we decide to abolish compulsory membership, we should redefine in the next step the organisational structure of the Chamber, the composition and the manner in which the Chamber body, quorum, decision-making, the payment of contributions or memberships and could also list them. It is worth noting that the amendment contains only one transitional provision which does not address the issue at all, which the applicant should address with a whole new chapter of transitional provisions. Not to mention that the applicant has not even made an effort, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, to prepare additions, which would appropriately address their more than substantial comments and warnings. In the SMC Group, we will reject or support the conclusion that it is not suitable for further consideration. We expect the proposaler not to have to deal with such bad proposals in the future. We inform the proposer that he is not the first to propose the abolition of compulsory membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. And if you did a little bit of trying, you could take up the proposal that you made in 2011 and 2013 either really or New Slovenia, which dealt with the issue more appropriately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u178	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u179	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome to all! Since we are rational in the Desus Group, we have decided to present a common position on all four proposals for the amendment of laws that touch agriculture in one way or another and are prepared by an unrelated Member. These are proposals for amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Law on Agricultural Lands, the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Public Procurement. Our position is uniform for all four proposals for novels – we agree with the decision of the parent working body that none of the proposals is suitable for further consideration. All four proposals for novels are prepared, according to our assessment and also according to the assessment of the Legislative and Legal Service, inadvertently and flawed, both substantively and nomotechnically. When we read the proposals, we got the impression that it was a unique inspiration from the author of the novels, and then he was unable or able to complete the project in order to make the proposed solutions meaningful and complete. However, the proposaler has certainly shuddered at topics that are important and which will need to be addressed in concrete terms in the future in terms of changing sectoral legislation, but in a comprehensive, systematic and search for consensus between farmers, their representatives, institutions operating in the field of agriculture, the ministry and all those interested in agriculture. The Ministry acknowledged that it is aware of transport and agricultural land acquisition problems and that a comprehensive reform of the agricultural policy area is under way. In doing so, the Ministry shall cooperate with all interested parties and shall organise a meeting to prepare a change in the agricultural policy with the greatest possible agreement. Finally, I would like to reiterate that Members and Members of the Desus Group at the 15th, 20th, 21st and 22nd agendas of the National Assembly will unanimously support the conclusions that the proposals to the law prepared by the unrelated Member are not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u180	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia provides for the abolition of a valid mandatory membership in the Chamber in voluntary. It is probably not too much to point out that this proposal is actually based on the thinking of many members of the Chamber who find that they do not receive sufficient quality services or advice or guidance or, finally, discussions on the subject and problems they are experiencing. Let me say in the introduction that the Social Democrats are also, in principle, reserved for voluntary membership in the Chambers, and we have always expressed this about the status changes in both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. The problem with the Agricultural Forestry Chamber in the case of the creation of voluntary membership is also shown by the fact that the small number of members of the Chambers would likely have also lost representation status, thus leaving the agricultural sector in particular the possibility of at any time establishing a dialogue with the Government or with the Minister responsible for agriculture. This is certainly one of the issues that needs to be cleared before a difficult decision can finally be made, as it is before us. However, I think that this bill must also be taken seriously and, above all, we expect those who have taken responsibility for the management of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber to also analyse and try to have a dialogue with membership and to achieve a form of organisation that will be at least large if not all of them, because this is usually difficult to achieve. In this situation as it is, we consider this to be a more appropriate form than the immediate abolition of compulsory membership. Finally, if we are to make this change, the law itself must be amended in its entirety. Which means that we should have before us an entire text, a new text of the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which is, of course, one of the extremely extensive and demanding projects, and probably one of the Members or other Members of the National Assembly, we find it difficult to create in a way that takes into account all the aspects that must be fully aligned, not least, with the members and, of course, with other professional institutions, especially the institutions that operate within the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. One of the important dilemmas we had at the time of the establishment of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber was, after all, the status of public institutions, agricultural and agricultural institutions, which, of course, came under the auspices of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. This was a very serious transition and, in fact, sometimes this relationship is being distorted, because, of course, when this transfer was carried out, the State budget obligation to finance these institutions was also assumed. Finally, the legislation we have recently adopted on this subject prolongs such validity and would therefore also take into account adopted laws that extend the status of the agricultural chamber to the future. All of these issues are extremely serious and challenging, and in particular, we reiterate that we must by no means allow farmers to lose their representative representative, as this would actually lose them in the further development of agriculture as well as in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u182	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 21. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the law on agricultural land within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Tomaž Lisc, for a further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you, President, for your word. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands, submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Andrej Chuš, as a working body at its 19th meeting, on 4 May this year. In accordance with Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the local communities. Two opinions were sent to the Committee, namely the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, which emphasises that the proposed partial solution to the Agricultural Lands Act in the chapter on Agriculture Transport would indeed improve the position of young farmers in improving the possibility of purchasing agricultural land, but they estimate that it would be better to fully open and redefine the chapter on agricultural land transport. The opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has also been forwarded, which emphasises that the proposal for a law partially addresses or improves the situation of young farmers, which they do not object to, but considers that it is necessary to seek integrated solutions while improving the situation of local communities by including pre-purchase beneficiaries in the purchase of agricultural land. Accordingly, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia proposes that in that Act Chapter 3, the transport of agricultural land, forests and farms be fully opened and redefined. At the time of presentation of their written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service reiterated that due to the clear and unequivocal determination of the entity, the concept of young farmers should be defined at the legal level, taking into account the content of the regulation and the purpose to be achieved. At the same time, it also pointed out the nominal shortcomings of the proposed text. The Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia stressed that the proposed solutions stem from the action plan for young farmers and are similar to the solutions proposed by the Chamber. However, given the debate on land policy reform relating to agricultural land transport, it is reasonable to wait for comprehensive and systemic solutions in this area. Therefore, the House does not support the proposed legislative text. The representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia pointed out that it would be necessary to include local communities on the list of pre-purchase beneficiaries for the purchase of land. With the right to pre-purchase agricultural land, local communities would acquire land where they would be more controlled to guide the development of all activities, in line with current needs, reduce land speculation and enable farmers to realistically relocate sealed farms to the margins of settlements or to open spaces where this would be acceptable from other aspects. In the context of the debate on individual articles, I, as Chairman of the Committee, on the basis of the rejection opinion of the Government and the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, invited the Committee to discuss and decide, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, so that the proposer and the sending groups are given the opportunity to present their views at the meeting of the National Assembly and that the law is also voted on. After a brief discussion in which some members of the Committee supported the Community proposal of the municipalities of Slovenia on the necessity of including local communities on the list of pre-purchase beneficiaries in the purchase of agricultural land, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u184	In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the bill's proposer, Mr Andre Couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u185	Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives or representatives of the Government! For 26 years we have been hearing about systemic solutions in Slovenian agriculture, Slovenian justice, Slovenian health care and could also list. And I believe that none of these people here or the '90s are satisfied with what we have. The agricultural proposals tabled last month, I believe that there were eight of them coming from the sector, by competent credible people living from agriculture, who are agricultural experts, at the end of the process, some have higher, greater ambitions, but of course from people who are merely accompanying them, and some from farmers and, of course, from young entrepreneurs. And if we are already talking about some of the comments I have been receiving, I am pleased that someone will also table a proposal for a voluntary membership law in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which will systematically address this problem or solve it and, of course, will be nomotechnically flawless. Then, obviously, we can expect the coalition's unanimous support. Once again, I would say that all the proposals that have been tabled by me come from the sector. Perhaps it is for someone that they are some partial interests or one or two articles, but I am working with one of my professional colleagues to the best of my ability and to listen and to listen to people's wishes, in this case farmers, but I do not have 30 Members of Parliament, and about so many professional colleagues who make such or other laws, but still have to fix half the law. That's right. In short, if you allow me, I will present the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Lands and the Proposal for a Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia at the same time, so I will act on my own time, in a rational manner. If I move on to the first proposal, i.e. the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands. The purpose of the law is for young people to increase their farms easily. Today, while I am a member of the Lower Podravje, I am also a member of the countryside. When I talk to young takers, young farmers, everyone says they want to work harder, make it easier for us to access the land. This law is equivalent to that of young farmers, not just those who receive the subsidy because many young takers have not received the subsidy but have become masters. On this basis, the Ministry would also regulate and define young farmers by means of a regulation. As I have already said, I am in daily contact with young farmers, who, of course, are masters of family small farms, everyone wants the state to listen somehow to make their way to additional land easier. It's about people 30 to 35 years of age motivated to work on a farm, but what if their growth is disabled? However, if we also go to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, I would add here that by this law I would suggest that the Fund should sell several land, of course owned by it, to move primarily to own family farms. In particular, family farms are those that preserve Slovenian rural areas that care for self-care and, of course, which also somehow in this centralist policy, which is always guided by Ljubljana, ensure that all young people do not escape to Ljubljana. And I have nothing against Ljubljana, I agree and it is very nice and it is right that Ljubljana is well developed and successful, but we must also look at other municipalities, if you want Juršice, Kostel, Kočevje or Cankovo and could also list. However, by selling more of these land to the Fund, they will, of course, get a motivated owner, and the Fund will also be able to take care of territorial integrity and preserve Slovenian land really Slovenian. See what happened months ago in Goriček, when Slovenian land became Austrian, and more such cases were, unfortunately, in the past. And I think that the task of the Fund is primarily to, of course, to be established with the aim of protecting Slovenian land and, of course, territorial sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u186	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food mags for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. Member Andrej Čuš proposes to amend the first paragraph of Article 17a of the Agricultural Land Act in such a way as to enable the owner to conclude a gift contract, the subject of which is agricultural land, forests or farm, with the holder of a farm which is the holder of a farm in accordance with the law governing agriculture and which is a young farmer in accordance with the Regulation on the Register of Farms or has acquired funds as a young farmer if it has not been more than 5 years since the acquisition of the farm. As a second amendment, the second paragraph of Article 23 proposes that, under the same conditions, the right to purchase, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 23, be determined in such a way as to first place a farmer who is a young farmer referred to in Article 17a of this Law. In this regard, I would like to clarify that the Government is familiar with the issue of transport and the purchase of agricultural land and has already approached a comprehensive reform of the area of agricultural land policy and relevant legislation. With a view to preparing professional starting points for a comprehensive renovation of the agricultural policy area and at a later stage also for the preparation of baselines for the amendment of the Agricultural Land Act, a professional basis for the re-regulation of agricultural policy was developed in February of this year, following the request of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, prepared by a group of experts from various Slovenian agricultural, higher education and other research institutions. This sets out three possible models of legal regulation for agricultural policy and proposes solutions, both in terms of agricultural land transport and in terms of the rules for the lease of protected farms and in the management of state land. The technical basis was first made public and then forwarded to the public on 24 February, with a deadline for comments by 30 June of this year. Five regional discussions will also be organised and, on the basis of the conclusions of these discussions, will be followed by the drafting of amendments to the relevant legislation. In view of the above, the Government therefore does not support amendments to the law that only partially address the area of agricultural land transport in one segment, and considers that a comprehensive approach should be taken to address the agricultural policy issue. In view of the above, it also considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u188	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u189	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, all present, welcome! According to the proposer, the main objective of the proposal for amendments is to increase the purchasing power of young people in the purchase and purchase of agricultural land, thereby reducing the cost of farming and preserving biodiversity. The law is intended to help preserve farms, rural areas and landscapes, while at the same time helping to improve the development of family farms. In the New Slovenia Group, we support these stated objectives of the law, as well as the proposed solutions for young farmers to access productive resources and create jobs for themselves and their family members on the farm. With greater economic efficiency, the net impact on the farm is positive, thus avoiding social problems and allowing for higher production and better self-sustainment. Otherwise, we are extremely critical of the current Ministry or Minister of Agriculture and its team, because it does not do much to preserve, but to increase the area of agricultural land in Slovenia. Due to excessive red tape, misunderstandings about the needs of farmers and, as a result, totally inappropriate agricultural policy measures, and not least because of continuing natural disasters such as colds and droughts, farmers, especially young people, are no longer motivated by farming. The self-sustainment of Slovenia with food is at a catastrophic low level. In New Slovenia, we believe that any measure, any change in legislation that goes hand in hand with farmers and their needs, can at least slightly improve the agricultural situation. For this reason, we support the proposed amendment. The natural conditions for farming in Slovenia are not ideal. Slovenian farmers, however, are miners. The task of the State is to establish as best as possible conditions for farming and remove administrative obstacles so that farmers can work and survive their work. Unfortunately, this government places more obstacles on farmers than good solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u190	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u191	Your Honor! The novels of the Agricultural Lands Act also form part of the package of poorly founded and prepared laws of the unrelated Member Andrej Couch, which is intended to include measures to revive rural areas and promote agriculture. Let me mention that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has taken a harsh and critical position and rejected them all as unfit for further consideration. We agree with the Government's view that the amendment to the law on addressing the issues addressed is only partial and that a comprehensive approach must be taken to address the agricultural policy issue. Ambassador Chuš submitted his package of laws to the National Assembly in mid-March this year without mentioning in explanation government plans to reorganise agricultural land policy. The latter surprises us, as already in February 2017 the competent Ministry of Resources produced and publicly published the professional basis for the reform of agricultural policy, which gives three possible models of legal regulation of agricultural land policy, as well as a public presentation of the professional foundations produced by the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, with the participation of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, the Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Sciences and legal expert Miha Juhart. The technical basis presented for the renovation of the agricultural policy includes an analysis of the existing situation and identifies the difficulties of existing arrangements. At the same time, they carried out a comparative review of the situation in some neighbouring and comparable European countries. Following the weaknesses and advantages presented, three models have been developed, one foresees an emphasis on the development of family farms, the other more favours support for the development of viable agricultural economies, and the third foresees an equal status for all farms. In the SMC Group, we are aware that agricultural land is a natural asset, important for food production and environmental protection, preservation of the cultural landscape and rural settlement and the exercise of ecological functions. Therefore, Slovenia is ahead of the difficult task of developing a land policy to ensure that agricultural land is processed and adequately protected. In this regard, we would like to point out that public consideration of these models for the reform of agricultural policy will take place by the end of June this year, five regional consultations will also be organised, two on Ptuj, from which Andrej Čuš comes, and the Murski Saturdays have already been held in March and April. Similar public presentations will take place in New Town, Kranj and Izola in the coming months. Since we have so far not had a good enough and professional review in Slovenia, and on a well-designed model of agricultural land policy at all, we will certainly wait in the SMC Group for the results of these consultations. We believe that the proposer will also be welcome in these deliberations and that he will be able to work constructively with his initiatives. For these reasons, in the SMC Group, we will reject or support the decision that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u192	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u193	Dear President, the esteemed Secretary of State! Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands – The main objective of the law is to increase the power of young people to buy and buy land and to reduce costs on farm. The novel seeks to define the young farmer now defined in the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013 measure, which is no longer in force. In particular, the aim is to improve the situation in agriculture and to target more young people in agriculture. The rural age structure is not favourable and measures must be taken as soon as possible to encourage young people to stay on farms. Agriculture is active in Slovenia for 4% of young people and over 50 years of age are less likely to modernise farms and acquire land. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the conclusion that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration. In our parliamentary group, we have already proposed many laws and regulations that have been in the best interests of the Slovenian farmer, the Slovenian countryside and, above all, the young people on the farm, but of course, we have most often heard from the Minister, the Ministry, the Government that this is being resolved systematically. The situation in Slovenian agriculture on Slovenian farms is certainly not positive. We will therefore support in the Slovenian Democratic Party all proposals and laws that will go to the benefit of the development of Slovenian agriculture, the Slovenian countryside and we firmly believe that the future of Slovenian agriculture is in youth. That there will be as many of them on our farms as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u194	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands is within the framework of the entire package that we are considering at this meeting of the National Assembly, the laws that have been tabled by colleague Andrej Couch, certainly the closest support that could be achieved in the National Assembly, as it highlights an extremely important issue of how to enable a young farmer to start farming. If you do not have agricultural land, you do not have the basic conditions to deal with agriculture, regardless of the fact that you have all the expertise, the will and not least, young people develop a life’s goal then also through farming. Of course, this is one of those issues which is extremely important for the further development of not only agriculture, but also rural areas in the Republic of Slovenia, which is characterised by the fact that we have the most recently inhabited rural area compared to other countries of the European Union. So that's what we're getting out of. However, the concept of a young farmer must be truly well defined within this system. In the law itself, as with others, this concept has not been cleared and the only concept that is very well explained at this moment, especially for the needs of financial support for which agricultural economies run, speaks of a young farmer as a natural person who is not over 40 years old who meets all the professional conditions and who for the first time establishes a farm. This is defined in order to obtain financial support. Whether the same definition satisfies and allows a natural person who would have the status of a young farmer to take precedence over the conclusion of gift contracts or pre-purchase rights is certainly one of the issues that will also need to be cleared within a broad public debate on the reform of agricultural policy, which is finally taking place during this period. In the Group of Members, we expect this public debate to give an answer in this sense that, above all, young people are allowed to take over farming and thus maintain that long-standing tradition of Slovenian life, which, after all, has survived precisely because we have always had decent farms and, finally, sometimes very many children on farms that have been difficult to survive. It was used almost every inch of the earth. There was a time when it was less. We would also like new knowledge, new technologies, with a new understanding of plant cultivation, to turn this confidence in farming back to the future in the countryside. As I said, we would like the public debate on the reform of agricultural policy to confirm precisely this direction proposed in this law. We believe, however, that the amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act is then significantly easier to accept when this public debate is held, so unfortunately this law will not receive support for further discussion on our part at this moment, but it is a good starting point for public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u196	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On the other hand, the amendment of the law on the composition of agricultural land and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Tomaž Lisc, for a further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you, President, for your word. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, everyone else good-bye! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has considered the draft law amending the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Andrej Čuš, as a working mother at its 19th meeting on 4 May. In accordance with Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the local communities. Two opinions were mediated to the Committee, namely the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, which estimates that the proposed partial resolution of the Law on Agricultural Lands and Forests would significantly improve the position of young farmers when purchasing and leasing agricultural land, but it would be better to draw up amendments to the law on the basis of the conclusions of the public debate on possible models of legal regulation in the field of agricultural policy. We have also received the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which considers that the proposed Article 2 does not guarantee the purpose and purpose of the bill under consideration, i.e. the increased power of young people to purchase and purchase farm land owned by the Fund. In addition, the proposed novelties have direct and pronounced negative consequences for municipal budgets, as local communities would be forced to buy back the land they were forced to transfer to the property of the Fund for the purpose of public interest. In an additional explanation for the written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out in particular the ambiguity of the proposed regulation to Article 2 of the Law and the unresolved relationship to the provision of the pre-emptive rights regulated by the Agricultural Lands Act. The Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, however, stressed that the Chamber advocates mainly solutions which will define the Fund as an active holder of land policy and will also be managed by users, i.e. farmers. Since the Chamber expects the Government to define fully the role of the Fund as an institution of active land policy, and this is as soon as possible, the House of Law does not support it. The Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, in the debate on the proposed provision of Article 17b of the draft law, explained that the Fund was already in its internal acts, i.e. in the development strategy and in the leasing rules, taking into account that priority should be given to young farmers or farmers. Thus, on the conditions laid down by law in the case of equivalent beneficiaries, the Fund ranks as a priority owner of an agricultural holding which is less than 40 years old and has acquired funding from the Rural Development Programme as a young acquirer. The second place, however, includes a young acquirer or agricultural operator, who is also under 40 years of age but has not run for funds. However, both are considered to have an advantage if they have less than 20 hectares of land to purchase. In the context of the debate on individual articles, as President of the Committee on the basis of the rejection of the opinion of the Government and the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee proposed that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it should discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration, so that both the proposer and us parliamentary groups would be able to present their views on the draft law, as well as that the law should be voted on. While we agreed in the debate on the proposal by Cuz's colleague, two members of the opposition parliamentary groups agreed that the text presented was weak and does not improve the current situation in the area of prudent and cost-effective treatment of agricultural land, the aim pursued by the proposer is good by the amendment of the law. We also expressed our conviction that the Fund is doing well, but it is not good legislation that governs its functioning. We have therefore called on the Government to prepare a new system law as soon as possible to deal with the issue of priority rights in the purchase of agricultural land, taking into account the interest of all stakeholders, including local communities, in the re-regulation of agricultural policy. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u198	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition for the opening presentation of the views on the proposal of the parent working body. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The proposer in the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 1 proposes an amendment aimed at increasing transparency and publicity of the Data Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests on the transport and leasing of agricultural land managed by it. In this regard, the Government explains that the Fund has implemented measures in recent years to increase the transparency of its operations and thus upgraded the web portal in January 2014 with a detailed presentation of transport with agricultural land as well as building land and forests and leased agricultural land, so that it is possible on the Fund's website to review such traffic with agricultural land, the sales programme, the rental relationship records and the public publication of potential leased land. However, the text and explanation of Article 2 of the draft law we are discussing show that the applicant misinterprets the first paragraph of Article 16b. On the contrary, it follows from the explanation of the proposal by the law of Mr Andrej Couch that the proposer would like to provide the municipalities with agricultural land, and that the proposed amendment actually deprives them of the opportunity to acquire building land free of charge for the purposes of public interest. By deleting the first paragraph of Article 16b, the municipalities would lose the opportunity they now have to acquire the land building free of charge, provided that the public interest is expressed for the purposes of the construction of public sports, health, education, social protection, science, culture, public administration, transport and energy, municipal and water infrastructures and facilities serving before natural and other disasters. The proposal is also flawed, since it is not appropriate to repeal only the first paragraph and leave three paragraphs which are substantively linked to the first paragraph of this Article. The following amendment refers to Article 17b, where a new second paragraph is added, which states that in the case of the purchase or purchase of agricultural land owned by the Fund, a natural person, or a young farmer, who is aged 40, is entitled, in this case, to take account of the Agricultural Land Act. We point out, however, that the legal system does not belong to this law because the acquisition and purchase of agricultural land is governed by the Agricultural Lands Act. Otherwise, as I have said in the course of the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act, I repeat that the whole agri-land policy, which covers both the management of state land, which is the content of this Act, and the general transport of agricultural land, which is the subject of the Agricultural Lands Act, and the Law on the Succession of Agricultural Economies, which regulates protected farms, has prepared a study on the basis of expert proposals prepared by the special group. Let me just add that young farmers are still an important concern of the agricultural ministry, and we also have a number of other measures in this debate on the future of agricultural policy that highlight the importance of preferential treatment of young farmers as a potential for agricultural development, and we also have a number of other measures to promote the existence of farms and, in particular, young entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u200	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u201	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, let us first express that, of course, it is very clear to the liberals that if someone makes a decision, he must also take responsibility for it, although the proposer is no longer among us, he will, of course, have to consider his own conduct and not tell us the conditions in which he works. As far as we are concerned, I believe that we have taken care of him as well as everyone else and that he has the same conditions for his work. Since something has already been said about this package of laws in previous points, I should limit myself only to the presentation of the position on the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Already in the amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act, we have mentioned that we need to tackle the problems of agricultural land in a comprehensive manner, not partial or ad hoc solutions, as the proposer does. Even the entities in the novel, i.e. local communities, have given their opinion to the novel, both the Municipality of Ljubljana and one of the representative associations of the municipalities, namely the Community of Slovene municipalities, oppose and propose that we approach the development of integrated solutions. These entities also point out that solutions are non-professional, since in a work where municipalities are supposed to facilitate the development of land policy, they even make them worse, which, of course, even the pre-deciers have specifically pointed out. It follows from the explanation that the applicant would like to provide the municipalities with agricultural land and that the proposed amendment actually deprived them of this option. It appears that the applicant does not understand or is not aware that, with its solutions, the municipality would lose the opportunity to acquire buildings free of charge, provided that the public interest is expressed in the construction of public buildings for the purposes of sport, health, education, social protection, science, culture, public administration, transport, energy, municipal and water infrastructures and facilities that serve to protect against natural and other disasters. This means that local communities should buy back the land they transferred to the public infrastructure fund. In addition, some of the solutions that should be part of the Lands Act's matter are also introduced into the novel, namely the purchase and purchase of agricultural land. Please note that the inaccuracies cited by the proposer regarding the transparency of the public data of the Fund on transport and on leasing with the agricultural land managed by the Fund. The Fund has already upgraded or renewed the information system in 2014 and in this context a real estate register can be found on the Fund’s website, where all legal transactions in land transport are published both by 2014 and after that year. The Fund also publishes on its website a record of the leases, where data can be found by buyers, partial numbers and so on. In addition, the Fund has published on its website all the free land eligible for leasing and all the land that can be sold. The proposer should only look at the Fund’s website prior to the creation of this novel. For these reasons, we will reject the amendment of the law in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, which means that we will confirm that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u202	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u203	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! Ambassador Andrej Čuš in the Proposal for Amendments to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia highlights three segments. As the first provision to the public of legal transactions of the Fund of Agricultural Lands of the Republic of Slovenia, then the availability of agricultural land for local communities, where it is exclusively an activity of its own, and as a third with regard to the classification of young farmers in pre-purchase rights. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has taken several measures to ensure the existence of farms, including the action "young farm taker". In view of the fact that all the land funds are leased, the young farm taker does not have any opportunity to acquire the land to be leased. This is because there is always a priority right for an existing tenant. As a result, we propose that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u204	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you for your word and once again a nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the possibility of leasing young farmers may first be highlighted from this point of view, in order to return at the time of the creation or adoption of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands, which was primarily intended to bring about the return of land which has been nationalised. Denationalisation is one of those processes which, of course, has marked the agricultural policy strongly since the operation of the Agricultural Land Fund. We have repeatedly warned that the fragmentation of agricultural land complexes must not occur, as this, of course, significantly weakens their economic production power, capacity, but this has not been taken into account to a large extent. That is why today we also have a great deal of needlessly fragmented land, as well as a lot of such agricultural land that has been returned, but not, say, to young farmers, which would have made sense when the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted and formulated. The consequences are, of course, also evident today in the fact that young farmers find it difficult to reach land, but it is also true that the priority right in the lease is regulated in the Agricultural Lands Act, so that the amendment itself in this part of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Act of the Republic of Slovenia would not be carried over by an appropriate solution. In particular, I would also like to highlight the efforts that have been made all the time within the party of the Social Democrats to allow the municipalities, however, to transfer or acquire buildings which are in the management of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, provided that there is a public interest in the construction of public buildings in the area of sport, health, education, social protection, science, culture and, of course, energy and municipal infrastructure. In short, it's a public benefit, a public need. It is right that the congregations maintain this opportunity to acquire unpaid building land for this purpose. This law, of course, removes that possibility. These are the reasons why the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia cannot be supported or we have already voted on the Committee on Agriculture as the Committee on Agriculture in favour of finding that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u206	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u207	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we support the main objectives of the novel under consideration. The proposal provides that the Agricultural Land Fund shall make public the data of buyers, sellers, buyers or tenants from the register for the purpose of providing legal transactions to the public and for the public with economic management of the property. The data shall be deleted one year after the publication or termination of the lease or lease relationship. The possibility for the fund to transfer the ownership right free of charge to the municipality where the public interest in that land is expressed is deleted. Here in the parliamentary group we do not understand this, probably the proposer does not think of the facilities of the municipal and transport infrastructure, for others, as the speakers have already said here today, but I think it is time that such facilities are not affected by agricultural land. “In the case of the purchase or purchase of land owned by the Fund, priority shall be given to a natural person or a young farmer up to the age of 40.” Here it would be right to go to the Agricultural Land Fund with a policy such as that of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is to take care of more self-sustainment, to better farmland processing and to get land for those farmers who have a perspective and will provide better self-sustainment. In our Group of Members, we also believe that the time of the Fund of Agricultural Lands or the purpose of the Fund has already expired, as a colleague said earlier, for what purpose the Fund was set up. In our view, it would be better for these lands to be transferred to the municipalities, as well as to the forest that is now in the state company, because it would certainly be better for the municipalities to manage these lands better. It would be better for the municipality to know who to rent agricultural land, to make more use of it, or to be better able to manage these land, because I think that individual farmers need these land, to be able to provide some economic scope to survive, rather than to rent the Agricultural Land Fund to some former combinations, to companies that are not even in Slovenian ownership, and then to use this land to produce food that goes abroad, and to us we are fighting for more self-sustainment. Even in the case of, say, Magne, if the municipality of Hoče owned land there, which is now owned by a fund and rented by a foreign company, the municipality could easily provide replacement land or transfer the necessary location to less-quality agricultural land, not to those 6% of the best agricultural land we have in Slovenia. At the same time, the proposer proposes some changes, but I think, as has already been said, that complete agriculture should be systematically saved. However, I should point out to the Government that what they will have on the ground, that the end of the third year of the mandate is a little late, that we should do so in the first year of the mandate and then take certain measures, not in the end. It is therefore the intention of the proposer to improve the situation for farming and, above all, to motivate young farmers to continue farming. In New Slovenia, we agree with these objectives and we will support this proposed amendment, although it should still be thoroughly finalized in order to serve its purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u208	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the housing law after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u209	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! The Government has adopted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Housing Law. A reduced procedure is proposed for the consideration of the draft law as it concerns amendments and additions to the law relating to a decision of the Constitutional Court which found that Article 28 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is inconsistent with the constitutional principle of equality. In addition, there are fewer difficult changes and amendments to the law. In view of the Constitutional Court’s decision that, with regard to the amount of the subsidy, the tenants are non-profitable and the tenants of commercial and household apartments in different situations, it is proposed to amend Article 121.b, which lays down general conditions for obtaining a subsidy for payment of the market rent. With a view to equating the situation of all beneficiaries of the subsidy, it is proposed that the beneficiaries of the subsidy be granted a non-profit share in addition to the market share of the subsidy. The new law also provides more clearly that applicants who pay market rent and have not only applied for a public tender are entitled to a subsidy for the payment of market rent, but have also been included on a priority list on the last public tender for the award of a non-profit flat for rent. It is proposed that the subsidy shall be paid at the time of payment of the market rent by the competent authority of the municipality of permanent residence irrespective of the municipality in which the applicant has a commercial residence and a fixed temporary residence. In this way, municipalities will be stimulated to receive housing programmes and to provide non-profit rentals. It is also very important that a provision allowing all tenants of non-profit dwellings, except tenants who have entered into a lease prior to the entry into force of the Housing Law, i.e. former tenants of housing rights, is required to provide evidence every 5 years of compliance with the general conditions for obtaining a non-profit lease. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Housing Law introduces a provision which would allow municipalities, public housing funds and non-profit housing organisations to obtain and process personal data from official records and personal data databases that are considered tax confidentiality and sensitive personal data that are essential for the performance of tasks in the housing field. In view of the need to promote greater activity of housing funds, additional debt is also proposed. The proposal of this Act gives the possibility that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to the 10% of the debt already granted by the Public Funds Act, will be liable to an additional 20% of the declared assets of the Fund without limitation. In addition to this increased level of indebtedness, the amendments and additions to the Housing Law also make it possible for public housing funds to be additionally indebted to the performance of residential tasks. This follows the objective of increasing the non-profit housing unit fund, which is in the public interest. An additional debt of 10 % of the declared earmarked assets of the public fund, namely the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, is proposed, as well as a gradual debt of 2 % per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u210	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Danilo Anton Rance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u211	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! At its 28th meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. In the supplementary explanation, the Secretary of State, Mrs Lidija Stebernak, stressed that the main reason for the proposed amendments to the law was the Constitutional Court's decision, which notes that Article 28 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds was inconsistent with the constitutional principle of equality before the law. More detailed amendments to the bill were already presented by the proposer during today's consideration of the proposal, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Mr Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal of the law, but points out that, due to the re-subsidisation of the non-profit work of the market rent, the financial sub-municipalities will be even more burdensome, especially given the increasing number of beneficiaries, which is also due to the lack of non-profit housing. In addition, he stressed that the only savings under the Law on measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities resulted in the abolition of non-profit rent subsidies, which are reinstated by the proposal for a law. In the debate, MEPs and Members supported the provisions of the bill following the Constitutional Court's decision, which concluded that Article 28 of the law was inconsistent with the constitutional principle of equality. They expressed their support for the solution contained in the draft law, which eliminates and equates the beneficiaries of the subsidy in non-profit and market housing. With regard to the content of the bill, the amendment to Article 121a, which imposes subsidies on municipalities to their municipalities, no matter what municipality the applicant has in which to rent a commercial apartment, was exposed. In this respect, it has been pointed out that there is a potential for significant costs for municipalities if their citizens rent apartments in regions where recognised commercial rent is higher than in the region of permanent residence. In this regard, the State Secretary replied that there is also a problem in the opposite direction because there are some municipalities with a higher influx of temporary residents. From this point of view, it would be unfair for these municipalities to be burdened further, so the proposed decision of the bill is aimed at encouraging municipalities to provide more non-profit dwellings themselves. With regard to a notice from the Legislative and Legal Service that it would be appropriate to consider that the obligation to pay subsidies to its citizens, irrespective of the municipality in which the applicant has a commercial apartment, is imposed on the municipalities only if the applicant does not receive an adequate market apartment in that municipality, she stressed that it is very difficult or virtually impossible to determine how much rent is available in the individual municipality. In addition to the proposed provisions in the draft law, it was also pointed out in the debate that there are several other problems in the area of housing policy that the proposal does not solve. Among other things, some cases of irregularities were noted, which were to be used by multi-housing building managers in relation to the floor owners. The view was also expressed that a change in the value of the point to determine the non-profit rent would have to be faced sooner or later. The Secretary of State stressed that, in addition to other content, the issue will be addressed comprehensively in the proposal for a new law, which is expected to be ready by the end of this year. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u212	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u213	Dear Vice President! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes the adoption of a law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law following a reduced procedure, as it is a matter of minor amendments and additions to this law. The Constitutional Court finds that Article 28 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is inconsistent with the constitutional principle of equality before the law, and there are even fewer difficult amendments and additions to the law, which are also related to constitutional implementation. In view of the Constitutional Court’s decision that, with regard to the amount of the subsidy, the tenants are non-profit and rentable commercial and household apartments in different situations, it is proposed to amend Article 121.b, which lays down general conditions for obtaining a subsidy to payment of the market rent. It is proposed that beneficiaries be granted a non-profit share of the subsidy in addition to the market share of the subsidy. The new law also clearly provides that applicants who pay market rent and have not only applied for a public tender are entitled to a subsidy for the payment of market rents, but have also been included on a priority list on the last tender for the award of a non-profit flat for rent. It is proposed to abolish the requirement that the applicant be required to have a tenant of a market apartment in a municipality where he asks for a subsidy, permanent or at least temporary residence, or that the Centre for Social Work rejects the application for a subsidy. The proposal is that the subsidy for the payment of a market rent shall be paid by the competent authority of the municipality of permanent residence, regardless of the municipality in which the applicant has a commercial residence and a temporary residence. This amendment allows all tenants of non-profit housing other than tenants who have entered into leases prior to the entry into force of the Housing Law, i.e. former tenants of housing rights, to be required to provide evidence of compliance with the conditions for obtaining a non-profit apartment every five years. An appropriate basis for obtaining and processing personal data from official records shall also be added. The current Housing Law does not provide an adequate legal basis for the acquisition and processing of personal data for the purpose of deciding and carrying out tasks in the residential area. It is also proposed that both the Republic and the municipal housing funds be additionally indebted. The proposal of this Act gives the possibility that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to the 10% debt already granted under the Public Funds Act, will be liable to an additional 20% of the declared assets of the Fund without limitation and to the municipal and housing funds for 10% of the declared state of the public fund, which can only be entrusted to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. In the discussion, it was pointed out that the rent subsidy was included in the rights of public funds. The rights of public funds are to be regulated systematically, transparently and in one place, meaning that the subsidy is a rental case that is to be regulated by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. The Commission of the State Council has pointed out that, due to the re-subsidisation of the non-profit part of the market rent, the financial well-being of the municipalities will be even more burdensome, especially given the rise in the number of beneficiaries, which is also due to the lack of non-profit housing. With the financial support of municipalities and additional financial obligations, it is difficult to talk about promoting the construction of non-profit dwellings, since the municipalities do not have enough resources to carry out legal tasks, let alone build housing. The bill brings some improvements that will show legal value in the implementation practice. We will not oppose the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u214	Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the outset of the presentation of the position of the Desus Group, let me say that in our Group of Members we will unitedly support the proposal for the amendment of the Housing Law. One of the main reasons for the novelty is the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision requiring the reintroduction of the subsidy of part of the rent for those who do not have the opportunity to live in non-profit apartments, but have this right and pay the market rent. A year ago, the deletion of the provisions of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, in order to grant subsidies to beneficiaries in market and household homes to a subsidy to recognised non-profit rent, led to non-compliance with the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Thus, the beneficiaries of non-profit rents that do not receive a non-profit flat and have to pay a market rent will receive a subsidy of no more than 80 % of the non-profit rent in addition to the subsidy, in contrast to the difference between market and non-profit rent. It will be paid by the municipality in which the beneficiary has a permanent residence, regardless of the municipality where the beneficiary resides and where the registered temporary residence is located. The Ministry hopes that, as a result of such a provision, the municipalities will be further stimulated to receive housing programmes and to provide non-profit rentals. Every five years, municipalities will be able to verify compliance with the conditions, including those of the non-profit tenants who entered into a contract prior to the entry into force of the law in 2003. This obligation exempts those tenants who entered into a contract prior to the entry into force of the 2003 Act and who had a so-called residence right under the 1991 Act but did not then buy the apartment or stayed in a non-profit lease in denationalised apartments. These tenants are also protected by a judgment of the Constitutional Court protecting the position of such tenants with compulsory non-profit rents. If this novel is adopted, housing funds will be additionally indebted to the Republic for an additional 20% and municipal funds for 10% of their intended assets, and all will remain within the framework of ensuring the sustainability of the fiscal rule. This proposal of the novel does not touch once again on many pressing topics that will be urgently opened in the near future, but rather on the unfair practices of some building managers, as well as changes in the charging of rents, the under-involvement of high-level owners in the management of buildings and could also be listed. The Ministry promises that these major changes will take place at the end of the year, which, according to our assessment, will not be an easy task, as it is an area where there are many different interests and views, so the Ministry of the Environment is facing a difficult task. Finally, let me mention the opinion of the State Council, which does not support the proposal as a whole, while the competent Commission of the State Council supports it. If we can conclude from the practice of past examinations of laws, where different opinions have been reached by the competent commissions of the State Council and the Council as a whole, we may expect a veto again, which will delay the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the elimination of injustices. As I said at the outset, Members and Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u216	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Jan Škoberne. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law that is before us in fact merely enforces and writes already consummated, i.e. already established in practice at least a constitutional decision, the basic idea of which is that Article 28 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is inconsistent with the constitutional principle of equality before the law and that, as regards the amount of subsidies, the tenants are non-profitable and the tenants of commercial and household dwellings are in different situations, so it is proposed to amend the relevant 121.b law, which lays down general conditions for obtaining a subsidy to the payment of market rent. Everything's nice and well and there's no way to argue with it. However, it is likely to be recalled that this same principle of equality before the law has been violated for more than two decades by those who are holders of the right to housing, and that despite numerous attempts by the few holders of this right in the twenty years, the National Assembly, despite some of the legislative initiatives that have been tabled by the Social Democrats, has not abolished this unconstitutionality and non-compliance with the principle of equality before the law. With each consideration of this law and laws related to acquired housing rights, it is likely appropriate to point out and to express our disappointment that, for example, the Ombudsman has found that it is not a large group enough to violate the constitutional rights of the crowd or group and would be prepared, on behalf of these weak, to submit a constitutional assessment and protect their interest. But this is something that after two decades of speed, except for a different constellation, perhaps the next call of this congregation will remain as it is today. If I return to the law before us and wish not to repeat everything that my colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Government have already told me at least three times before me, it is a law which, in addition to the established constitutional decision, provides for some self-determination, which, at least to all those who have operated in local communities or operate, is perfectly clear and self-sustaining. Thus, they speak of the need for permanent residence or at least temporary residence to exercise the right to non-profit housing as a basic condition that the law imposes the possibility of checking for five years to meet the basic conditions for obtaining this non-profit, which has been a problem in a number of local communities. Many have benefited from non-profit housing or subsidies under this heading, even though it has long failed to meet these conditions, and this is, of course, something that should be self-evident and, of course, welcome in the law. At the same time, we welcome the possibility of additional indebtedness of housing funds, but at this point we point out that, not in the way that it was in one of the last stories, where dwellings for young people built by the public housing fund are sold at a price of 4 thousand and more euros per square metre. This is probably inexorable under the Penal Code, but it is common crime, theft, and wickedness. I believe that I know the Minister that she will also take appropriate action against this. And I am looking forward to the residential law that is being prepared from this title. However, those who are able to make a business decision and are the leaders of a public institution selling 4 000 euros per square metre for young people, I hope that it is endless and very embarrassing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u218	Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, chairman! Nice hello to you all! Since it has been told many times what the essence of this novelty is, I will follow the predecessor in part, and I will not repeat myself. The fact is, I must point out that in the United Left a year ago we proposed a solution with the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights to public funds, which would not lead us to this amendment, which essentially eliminates the unconstitutional nature and equates beneficiaries and the right to subsidy in market and non-market rental apartments. At that time, the government objected to our proposal with some typical excuses that I will quote: "...it will re-arrange the area of rental apartments" and, with the promise, I quote, "that we can expect a complete overhaul of the housing law by the end of last year". Now, of course, just before the expiry of the deadline for the abolition of the anti-constitutional system, we accept a minor amendment to the Housing Law, because, of course, the Constitutional Court somehow, if I remain polite, forces us into this. In addition to the abolition of this anti-constitution, there are some minor changes. The public housing funds are charged with checking the tenants of non-profit dwellings, but it is a correction of an article in the original WHO, where it was written that those who obtained rights before the law was enforced are somehow exempted from this. And this fact today allows some who no longer meet the conditions for obtaining a non-profit rent because they have better incomes to still stay in non-profit apartments. In the United Left, it is also noted that the ceiling for the allocation of non-profit rent is high. In Ljubljana, for example, a non-profit apartment can obtain a single-member household or one person who has income of twice the average Slovenian salary, although of course two thirds of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia work for lower wages. Another novelty we support, in fact, in the United Left, is that public housing funds will be able to obtain information on applicants for calls for non-profit housing on an official basis, which will facilitate the application for such calls. In fact, we also support the increase in the possibility of borrowing housing funds. We have even proposed an amendment to increase this level of debt by 40% and not just by 10%, aware of, of course, all the responsibilities and the fact that we urgently need to encourage the construction of such apartments because they are chronically lacking in Slovenia, especially if we are looking at it in the light of the fact that we will not have property taxes which could be regulated by higher taxation of vacant properties in a smart way. But of course, since this amendment of ours is obviously not in the interests of the ruling class, it was rejected. We will, of course, confirm the proposed amendment of the law in the United Left. Once again, we point out that, in essence, we could and should eliminate the anti-constitution by adopting our law last year, not because it was ours, but because it was an urgent remedy for some unconstitutionality. But the rule of this government is that every time the United Left wants to protect the most vulnerable groups of people, our proposals with promises of a comprehensive, comprehensive system solution are rejected. Then, somehow, some kind of fire-extinguishment occurs and in partial solutions to emergency or reduced procedures. I hope that the next call by the National Assembly and the coalition will be more social, and that there will also be a United Left on the government team, because after a quarter of a century, someone has to get serious about housing policy. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u220	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u221	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We have written in our programme, each citizen, and in particular families with children, must have a realistic opportunity to ensure at least a minimum standard of housing in their own or rented home or apartment. The country needs to help young families solve the first housing problem. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law follows a constitutional provision that requires us to abolish unconstitutionality. In addition, the proposed amendments and additions provide for a simplification of the process of obtaining personal data due to the needs of the authorities in the decision-making and performance of tasks in the housing sector. In practice, many times this system has proved to be being played. In addition, all beneficiaries of non-profit dwellings shall be levelled so as to allow all to verify that the conditions for obtaining a non-profit flat are met. Since we have several applicants in Slovenia for renting non-profit apartments, such as their availability, this amendment also proposes a greater commitment to public housing funds. Public housing funds justify their proposal in a larger debt ratio with record low borrowing rates. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the bill. However, we are joining the opinion of the State Council, which establishes an article of the law which provides that the subsidy to the payment of the market rent is paid by the municipality in which the applicant has his permanent residence. In practice, a tenant may rent an apartment in a region where the recognised market rent is higher than in a region where he has a permanent residence. We join the municipality's proposal to limit the practice so far, that the applicant must have a permanent and temporary residence in the same municipality in which he will apply for the granting of an apartment. We are pleased, however, that the amendment we have proposed to this law has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u222	Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u223	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Representatives of the Government, Honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The novelty of the Housing Law, which we are considering, brings about changes and additions relating to the Constitutional Court's decision, which points to the inequality before the law in the enforcement of rights from public funds, thus to the more precise contradictions found in the field of subsidies, non-profit and market rents. The Constitutional Court has found that there is an inequality before the law in how to determine the amount of the subsidy for tenants in non-profit apartments and tenants in commercial and household apartments that meet the income and other conditions for the acquisition of a non-profit apartment. The main solution to the proposal removes this inequality and equates the conditions for both groups of tenants. Equalization of all non-profit housing tenants is also an important contribution to the bill. It happens that some tenants do not actually meet the prescribed conditions for the acquisition of non-profit rental apartments, but, according to the existing legal provision, their status as tenant is virtually inviolable and that they no longer meet the criteria for the allocation of non-profit housing does not constitute a ground of guilt for the cancellation of the lease. The amendment of the law is equivalent in terms of the principle of equality for all tenants in non-profit apartments, irrespective of when the rental relationship has been concluded. The exceptions are the tenants of former tenants of housing rights who did not buy the apartment in which they were entitled and the former tenants of housing rights who remained in non-profit rentals in denationalised apartments. The existing practice has shown that there is no adequate legal basis in the current Housing Law for the acquisition and processing of personal data from official records for the purpose of deciding and carrying out tasks in the housing field. So it happens that in the records there is irregular or simply outdated data. The proposal removes this irregularity by allowing municipalities, public housing funds or non-profit housing organisations to obtain and process personal data on tenants and other participants in the procedure under the Housing Law and the regulations. In this way, in addition to the credibility of the data, it also affects the reduction of the burden on applicants who, in practice, had to obtain this information for themselves and their family members and to submit it to the competent authority themselves. And the last. In view of the lack of public rentals, the law also allows for an increase in the level of indebtedness. The possibility is therefore opened for the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to 10% of its debt, which is already available under the Public Funds Act, to be charged with an additional 20% of its declared earmarked assets without limitation and with the municipal housing fund for 10% of the dedicated assets of the municipal public fund, which can only be owed to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the bill adequately eliminates the anti-constitution found and can have a beneficial impact on the real estate market, both at national and municipal level, so we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u224	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Housing Security Schemes and Subsidies to young companies for the first settlement of the housing question. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members, first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u225	Dear Members and Members! If anything, then Nova Slovenija in this house wants to open up topics that are crucial for the future development of Slovenia. This is certainly the future of the Slovenian people. This is definitely demography or demographic indicators. If the Slovenian people want to survive for a long time, it is clear that in Slovenia the birth of at least 2.1 children per mother should be at least in the child age. The sad truth is that the current birth rate of 1.5 children per mother is at birth. Even more, the average age of a woman, when she gave birth to her first child, has risen in Slovenia for over 30 years. If we want to pursue the goal of having 2.1 children per mother in Slovenia at birth, 30 000 children per year should be born in Slovenia. Unfortunately, they're born 10,000 less, that's 20,000. So this country, this National Assembly, should focus on things that would help young people decide for more children. We should take measures that would encourage young people to still have these missing 10,000 children. When you ask young people in various polls what it is that doesn't make them decide for more children, they most often point out three things. First, values, second, jobs, and third, apartments. In the past, New Slovenia has presented a package of different laws that address these three challenges and provide solutions. And today there is a law before you that will primarily help young people to solve the housing problem or the roof issues, how to get to the first apartment. As we have already said in New Slovenia many times, the situation in the country has matured to return to the families a set of family policy measures that families have already had. Families among them, especially those with multiple children and single parent families, bore the left share of the savings burden during the economic and financial crisis. And thanks to the current government, that doesn't change much. The government of Mira Cerar has been talking a lot over the past year about improving the economic situation in the country. As a result, it also releases a number of austerity measures while at the same time increasing budgetary expenditure in a number of areas. Let us only mention the recent recapitalisation of SDH and DUTB amounting to EUR 250 million, for which it was money. Let us also mention the increase in public sector wages, the re-introduction on 2 January as part of a day off and the increase in the minimum pension for a full retirement period without totality. Certainly, these are welcome measures. However, there is one important part missing, that is that austerity measures should also be released in the area of family policy. And that is what we want to follow in New Slovenia with the law before you. By this law, which we are going to address today, we want to make it easier for young people to access housing loans, thus allowing them to pay less credit and also to help them financially to pay for housing costs. These are two very concrete solutions that we are proposing in law. While the government is mainly referring to the negative effects of the solutions we are proposing, we are focusing on the positive effects. Many young families turn to us with a good experience, which they have experienced in the past with such assistance and are described as an extremely good solution, and most importantly, the measure has been linked to the number of family members. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we sincerely ask you to respond positively to this proposal and allow these families and young people to make it easier for them to get to their first apartment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u226	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and Space of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u227	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies to Young Families for the First Resolution of Housing Issues proposes the re-implementation of provisions which have been deleted from the Public Finance Balance Act. We would like to point out that the Government is aware of the accessibility of dwellings for young and young families and is addressing it in the context of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme, which was adopted in December 2015 in the National Assembly. At the Ministry of the Environment and Space, we pay particular attention to creating conditions to ensure the quality of living and the constitutionally recorded choice of housing for all, intertwined actions in various priority areas and detailed action plans in the resolution to address housing problems, especially for young and young families. The resolution does not provide for the re-establishment of instruments which are the subject of the draft law, but provides for a number of other instruments and measures for target groups, which the proposer does not mention, but are already being implemented and will be listed below. In addition, the resolution adopted housing policy follows the objective of increasing the public housing fund. Furthermore, the Government does not support the proposal of the law because of the past negative effects of the scheme, which have been shown to alter the terms of the savings and premiums, resulting in a lower interest in the entry into the austerity scheme, the non-adaptation of interest conditions to the current financial markets, the conditionality of the borrowing of loans – the savings scheme should be for savings only and loans should be left to banks and the conditions applicable at the time of borrowing the loan – and the high costs for the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia as the operator of the national housing savings scheme and the subsidy payer. In order to prepare and implement measures to improve the housing problem of young people, a Youth Working Group was established on the basis of a decision of the Government in April 2016. Under the direction of the Ministry of the Environment, the representatives of the Housing Fund, the Office for Youth, the Youth Council of Slovenia, the Student Organisation of Slovenia, the Community of Municipalities, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia are also composed. Two pilot projects are currently being implemented within the Youth Working Group. A pilot project to provide affordable housing for young people who first solve the housing issue and a pilot project to provide housing for young people. We believe that the housing problem of young families could also be addressed indirectly through housing cooperatives, and a working group has also been set up to prepare for the implementation of the pilot project of the Housing Association, which ended with the preparatory phase. Finally, the Ministry of Environment and Space is preparing a new housing law. Platforms have been developed, which have also been made public, and the law will pay particular attention to young and young families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u228	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken. Here you go, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings, honourable Members, Secretary of State with a co-worker! When we read the material that we are currently dealing with, we automatically asked some questions, how I grew up alone and my peers, how we put ourselves on our own feet, how we made ourselves independent and walked with the belly for bread, what opportunities we had and what opportunities we had today, what opportunities and what opportunities our young people have today. Well, I have to say, we weren't getting laid with the flowers. We had to quickly take off our baby shoes and put on grown-ups, sometimes even too big shoes. But we found each other, despite our lack. True, social values were quite different, there was solidarity, help, genuine friendship and collective spirit All for one, one for all were accompanied by our growing up. And without illustrating that period, even though it was difficult for us, the wages were lower, there were more unemployed, we lived in more modest conditions, but everyone who wanted to work was almost able to choose for an indefinite time, and we could live by the principle of the stable, and then the cow. Today, but today, everything is different, and I don't think we can point to youth as the culprit here. Youth, on the one hand, is pushed into a completely different world. A world that, in my opinion, magnifies education to the extent that young people can no longer work with their hands. So we get masters, double doctors, and so on, which sometimes they can't turn on, I'll say, under the nickname, the washing machine or something. Above all, flexibility, the laxity of work, has been absorbed into our society to the point that young people have virtually no longer had any security, no future, their future is a blur. The logical consequence is that they remain dependent on their parents, that only Hotel Mama can offer them safe shelter. This makes them individual, apathetic, lost and incapable of taking responsibility for themselves, let alone for their family. It is true that youths today find it very difficult to afford a decent apartment. There are no regular jobs, as a result there are no credits, real estate prices are unattainable for these young people. Therefore, extended parental stay is self-evident. I was concerned that in our country more than 44% of young people under the age of 34 still live with their parents. Slovenia is about the length of the joint stay of parents and children in second place, immediately for Slovakia, and you will not believe, we are exceeding Italy. I cannot help but overwhelm myself with the latest invitation to tender for the Housing Fund, which has recently been published. This is about selling more apartments and houses, and young families, larger families, have the advantage. Everything's fine and fine until we look at the details. Housing prices range from 141 000 to 480 000 euros and house prices range from 380 000 to 470 000 euros. Your Honor, let me ask you, which young family can afford such an apartment?Oh, my God! Let there be such benefits in renting a loan, and some additional subsidy at the top, but it's not going to work. Does the proposal for a law proposed in New Slovenia not contribute to a better position for young people, but rather to better opportunities for young people to get on their feet before they become independent? In Desus, we wouldn't be able to say that. In all too many traps, young people have already been plunged into these austerity schemes in a situation like today, when they do not have regular incomes, when they do not have jobs to do them a bear service. We do not say this; we simply point out that caution and meditation are not excessive. On the other hand, it is surprising that such a proposal has brought exactly the party whose minister has abolished housing relief, a relief for solving the housing problem, in 2005, if I am not mistaken when we have not yet been subject to austerity measures. More than 100,000 debtors and 8.1% of them have made such a relief. The same party promised this income reform with a fig in its pocket under the pretext that no one would pay any more than they did because of the higher general relief. He was, and is still, at the blow of a lower and middle class, to which no later regrets of the Minister for such a measure would be helpful. Let me finish this slowly. The concern of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia does not only include the elderly, only pensioners, their pensions and the coordination of these pensions, the annual allowance and so on, and we are increasingly concerned, and given where this society is taking us, we also have reasons for this, including the flood of public health, the unemployment of not only the elderly, especially the young, the vanity of the work, the insecurity of the youth, in general a system that is not favourable to young people, such as the introduction of spar programmes in social, pension, health and other areas. In the Desus Group, we will not go against the proposed law. We believe that such a policy, a social climate, must be adopted so that we can raise our children to be independent, responsible and mature. Whether the proposed solutions on the national austerity scheme would help to this extent in order to cut the cord, and I cannot say. We will therefore closely follow the debate that will take place and, on the basis of the arguments presented, take our final position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u230	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Although it may also sound strange, Slovenia had its time to have an almost ideal housing fund that could become a housing fund for non-profit, rent-free, rent-free, whatever, apartments for the benefit of society, apartments that this company would use to avoid being confronted with the issue that we are facing today, this is how to provide young people and families with access to housing, and let it be at least a rental to start with, because the truth about the loving majority of young people in this country does not even want to think about ownership. But of course, there was a law of Jasbinšk, and some of the apartments they lived in received, and many who took advantage of it also enriched, and generations who did not have opportunities and opportunities to take advantage of the opportunities of transition are now faced with a reality that has not been blamed on themselves. But it is not possible to mourn the past, there is a present ahead of us, and the New Slovenia action and proposal must be seen through this prism. Although it seems to be a useful and good move at first sight, after a thorough study one may wonder if it is agreed with banks and with which. Of course, in the world there are proven methods of housing policy, modern ones, those with positive experiences and those with negative experiences. And one of the basic and fundamental models in modern times, which has also been adopted in this country's national housing programme, but this is a strategic document that would be read and taken into account here and there, is the commitment to establish a tenant's fund, preferably non-profit housing, rather than strengthening the equity fund, which generally allows only the accumulation of capital and opportunities on the part of those who already have the opportunity to settle their position, while all others are equal and equal before the market, mostly in their own detriment. Therefore, the problem is that young people need to be credited, if possible in the long term, before they get into the labour market and even before they succeed in creating a family or when they are just creating a family, and be aware of them in the long term, and by a subsidy which, despite everything at the beginning of their lives, puts them in a position that they do not leave enough or any exit at all, is probably wrong in the core. On the contrary, it is necessary to develop a tenant housing fund that can have a medium-term perspective for a young person, so that, with the support of the State, for a reasonable proportion of his monthly income, he can solve his or her existential difficulties and, at the same time, think more about ownership. Of course, the fund's moves, which builds ownership apartments for 4 000 euros and more per square metre, as I said at the previous point, do not contribute to this. It will also certainly be necessary in the Housing Law to address this issue and to determine whether it makes sense for the Housing Fund to build ownership apartments, when this is contrary to what the Government has adopted as a strategic direction on the proposal of this esteemed assembly. If we leave the country's policy and intervention behind, there are many other options that appear to be credible and good alternatives in the world. To begin with, let me mention housing cooperatives. Not only in this area, but also at many other, completely marketed, economic points during the crisis have shown exceptional resilience and a sense of social justice and solidarity. The data from Italy, France and the United States show that cooperatives have survived significantly better and in a sustainable manner the financial and economic crisis that is supposed to be behind us, even though I do not really know where it comes from. The same will have to be done in housing. Prior to incentives and additional incentives for this kind of integration of young and older people, i.e. the intergenerational problem, is much more at stake than another austerity, a national scheme that is in fact only suited to those who already have a regular job and a stable life. If you look at the labour market, you will see, of course, what is far from what is desired, that most young people do not have a job for an indefinite time, not only in Slovenia, but also everywhere else in the world, and that unfortunately, although this reality is difficult to face, the prospects for this to change are not very good. We are fighting penetrating, even at today's meeting, we have considered the amendment of the Penal Code, in which we have had to further strengthen the criminal provisions, tighten the criminal provisions and make it clear that the deliberate intervention in social rights and the labour rights of this society is unacceptable. And yet it happens. And there's gonna be a lot of these interventions. Since the proposed measure was short and, in fact, there is not enough to say about the housing scheme, I would also conclude that loans, although subsidised, do not solve the situation. It may be saved for banks, for young people who face a high level of mobility in order to see their lives not only through the prism of their first permanent residence, but mainly through the prism of a permanent search for new opportunities will need to be done significantly more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you for saying that again. Basically, I am pleased with the way the predecessors were taken, and so will I in this personal way. After all, I would like to have a parliament where there are parallels where we would basically speak from the head and not read, except when we refer to some data, which is done in slightly more serious parliaments. I will also be like chili, even though after EMŠA the oldest colleague among us, I too started in person. This Sunday I took the youngest of our children, our eight-year-old whom I often call, the one who follows me on Facebook, a consultant, to visit the Wurnik Workers' Colony in Maribor. Vurnik planned and built this colony in 1928, in those days he was in the House and the world, and where he wrote about these issues, and perhaps if a few of his texts were read at the departmental ministry, we would have a different housing policy. Of course, with the current standards of living, those few less than 40 square feet twice seem relatively small, but at the time it was essentially a rather high standard for employment and it was also planned in a way that the tenant would pay back this kind of house in 20 years and become the owner without having to financially die, according to the household. Recently, I met one of the world's best young photographers, a Slovenian who doesn't want to give him his artistic status, just came from London, where he studied for a year, said he was happy to come back. If you read the English media, you can't literally solve the housing issue in urban areas under 40 years of age. Last year, the Slovenian Youth Council held a consultation on this subject and I was kind of appalled there, because also, I'll say, that part of the youth policy, social-democratic, if I put it that way, and here I have to admit that my colleague and I talked to him earlier, he was also kind of criticizing their young man, and they all were saying, "Give us a chance to get credit as soon as possible." But you know, we're talking about two things here. We are talking about a political economy that is not necessarily what it is, and which should not be what it is. And we're also talking about a housing culture that should definitely be different. I always say that I would be the happiest person in the world, that I would not be megalomanic and mention the universe if I never owned a property and a means of transport, except for a bicycle or a roller. And the countries are relatively close to allowing you to do so. In particular, the so-called right hand, Slovenian, is very fond of talking about the other Switzerland. In Switzerland, there are over 5,000 housing cooperatives, and one fifth of the population lives in cooperative housing. Certain practices are even such that for Slovenians this is an unimaginable universe, that you never own a particular apartment. I will tell you in a way that New Slovenia will understand. Their defined family, their children go to their own, and their parents will go to a smaller apartment unit within the residential cooperative. One day, when I mentioned this at one of the previous meetings, a refugee from the SDS, now an independent MP, shouted that this was a socialist I don't even know something about Venezuela. We have a very similar situation in Austria. My colleague mentioned some other countries before me. Even in America, when NATO takes you somewhere, we could go for a syringe and take a little look at how this problem is being solved. It saddens me that a client who also represents a pensioner at the same time turns to young people here. Look, I come from Maribor, just like a colleague who spoke before me, where we have a big problem with assignments. Usually Opa dies before Oma, Oma has a low pension, this year has been cold winter, the radiators are closing because they are poor, they're heating up a little bit of electricity – and we have a problem with the operation. We have owners who don't have money to pay basics, what we used to call directing. What are we gonna do about it? We have practice here, too. For these people, the home housing community, where everyone has their own apartment unit, also has a garden so that they can have some pedals while they can, have shared rooms, have a protected, have a nurse. We are a wealthy society enough that all these practices should be implemented and you have not implemented them for a quarter of a century. For this reason, you should also be sent on some extended leave to your retirement and leave the solution to the housing problem to some who do know this area, as well as if you think what I am saying is actually vehement. What's the actual situation? See, the actual situation in some better version, I remember a few years ago, actually with half of my top graduates somehow happened so that my parents moved on weekends, I speak more about Ljubljanans with surroundings that kids could go live in an apartment. Watch out, and this is the higher medium, if not the higher layer in Slovenia. That something crazy is inappropriate with our housing policy and ownership structure, it also shows you, if you're looking, I don't know where the ministers live, Minister. The reality is actually even more morbid. For many young and few younger people, the only way to get to their own apartment is when I'm almost 50 years old, and I'm too old for Jasbinska to literally have someone die for you, a parent or a relative. And this is essentially due to the housing policy that you've all gone through, and everyone who's been and you're in the government now should be silent about it, in fact, because you haven't done your homework, and even if someone back then gets hurt. If we go to see what he's somehow trying to suggest back to NSI, some restoration of the national housing savings scheme. What was it like with the scheme that was introduced? Following the expiry of the first five-year saving period, 61 savings were made by owners or co-owners of apartments. So they had a housing issue solved. Of these, 52 claimed, according to a housing fund survey, that they were satisfied or very satisfied with the quality of their stay, given that they were still moderately satisfied, that is already 84%. We can see that this scheme didn't work at the time. The market went crazy, these boxes, usually poorly made, were overpaid and prices rose by three quarters within 5 years of the scheme. And in this context, I agree, this proposal is somewhat reckless and does not understand the housing problem, but unfortunately, colleague Tonin does not understand the demographic problem in essence. After all, we went to college, we didn't have a kid when we were 18, we had them a little later, well, I had him in college at 24, a colleague there at about 30. These are some facts, and you won't turn this cycle of history back. I can also partly – I will burn all the time here – I agree with my colleague, but, you know, somehow say, people who would have two doctorates, I mean, if I didn't fall into Parliament, I would have two doctorates, but I can iron, I can cook, I can also plant some tomatoes, but of course our school system is reckless and that often higher education is a social shocker. Yeah, what else should young people do? Otherwise we'll have them on the street, and they'll really break this temple of democracy. These are some facts and, in fact, some policies that should be considered and dealt with. Now, at the end of the term of office, we will obviously get one serious material that has been neglected for a quarter of a century. Despite the best intentions of the Ministry, how much knowledge they have, how much knowledge they lack, will in fact be the ultimate extraction of one in the best case semi-scrupulous. And that's also why I say that we need five-year mandates, and at least three years later, if not four, we have to work seriously. This is a topic that should be brought to Parliament after one-third of the term of office and seriously dealt with because, after all, it shows the attitude towards this issue. At the Ministry, they know very well that some of my best students and students have taken a serious bite into the housing cooperatives that some of you mentioned before me. At the Faculty of Architecture in Ljubljana they brought in a whole range of experts, and there was also someone from your ministry there, including some secretary of state with the President of the Government, but some movements I actually don't see. You know, everyone we know a little bit about this expertise when it's called Red Danube knows what time it is, but now the right one can start swinging, because then the Social Democrats, while the Social Democrats, after World War I, were solving the housing problem, but they write down, it wasn't just housing policy, it was basically urban policy. We have neither urbanism for 25 years nor housing policy. And I'm very afraid that this law that you're about to bring in now is not going to save. We will not solve demographic policies in this way either. Because of all this unreality, we will be in the United Left against this bill. But I'm gonna save some time for the replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u235	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today, I have so many points that I could mix them up a little, like one of my colleagues once said. As my colleague Tonin said earlier on behalf of the proposaler, today we are considering the next draft of the law in the family package prepared by our party. Anti-crisis or austerity measures in many areas have been released, and the current government or ruling coalition has been putting a loud emphasis on the end of the crisis. Families who should actually feel this first are still faced with the loss of family benefits, but at the same time with significantly higher expenses. In view of our findings that three factors influence parental decision-making for a child or more, these are the values of the environment in which the family lives, then the job or employment and the third housing issue, we also propose changes to the law that follow. Our findings are also confirmed by the documents of the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. The main purpose and objectives of the proposed novel are to enable families to optimize their family budgets and the corresponding socio-economic situation, to support young families in the first resolution of the housing issue, to ensure a fairer distribution of public finances, to encourage domestic consumption, to improve the demographic picture in the Republic of Slovenia. Solutions are well known and are already tested: encourage young families to save and provide them with more favourable housing loans and help them with concrete financial assistance in the first resolution of the housing issue, regardless of whether they buy or hire the apartment. The Government does not support our proposal in its opinion. It cites several alternative points to address the housing problem of young and young families. In this position, we will not touch these points in concrete terms. We suggest that the Government ask young families how effective their current measures are and what they promise from written plans. You'll get the answer that this is inconceivable, useless. The Housing Fund currently sells equity apartments for the market, which range from EUR 2 000 189 to EUR 3 000 per square metre. How many young families can afford that? Also, there is still no possibility of renting with a later buy-in, where rents would also be included in the purchase. Young families need concrete measures to support them where they need them. Financially, their budgets are extremely burdened and assistance in resolving the housing issue would be very welcome. Families are our greatest wealth, our greatest value, which is why we need to support them and enable them to make easier decisions for more children and help them care for them. Members of New Slovenia, of course, support the proposed solution and we will vote in favour of this law. If I did not read everything, as my colleague Trček said earlier, because I do not have this task anymore alone, I would say that I agree with my colleague Trčko, that we do not have real spatial legislation and building legislation in Slovenia, that we have too much administration, red tape, too much costs for the construction papers themselves, let alone the price of municipally equipped building land and so on. According to statistics, we have over 150 000 empty residential units in Slovenia. I don't say apartments, but the places where the accommodations are arranged, empty, they're not used. Or they do not have the right permissions to be used for certain things, but they are built. It would be urgent to put these housing units on the market or to young families to resolve the housing issue cheaply and to focus on something else, perhaps even raising their own children, raising their own children better, or giving these housing units to tourism, where the most promising economic activity would also come to life with us and would raise as much resources as neighbouring Austria in the budget. We've got built units, and we've got empty units. It's not all about that. The nicest thing is, the state supplies money to build a house, then it'll be all right. That's not true. I think that the thinking that is changing very quickly with us young people should, to our happiness, be followed by power and adapt to it. We have certain advantages. If we didn't have this already built, which was a lot of money invested in 30, 40 years ago, it's no good now. Therefore, I propose that the Government devote itself also to those regulations or laws that will make it easier for these young people or older people to withdraw from the places where the services are located, to the countryside, where they want to spend their third life in quality, in order to have built-up municipal infrastructure, transport infrastructure and everything else they need to live there legally, not illegally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u237	Once again a nice greeting to all present! The proposer proposes to adopt a proposal for a new Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Grants to Young Families for the First Resolution of the Housing Problem in a way that reintroduces the national housing savings scheme and subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue and rental subsidies. We already know such a solution from the past, as an identical arrangement was repealed by the Public Finance Balance Act, so-called ZUJF, in 2012. This fully deleted the articles relating to the granting of subsidies to young families and the subsidisation of commercial rental of dwellings. Even though the proposal of the law at first sight brings the solutions we like, we cannot ignore the fact that such solutions have not proved to be the most effective in the past. In particular, the negative effects of the austerity scheme have been shown to alter the terms of the savings and premiums, resulting in a lower interest in entering this austerity scheme, not adapting interest conditions to the current situation in the financial markets and facilitating the rental of loans and high non-refundable costs for the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia as an operator of the National Housing Savings Scheme and the payer of subsidies. In view of past negative experience with the system that the applicant wishes to reintroduce, new, different orientations have been established in the area of housing policy. Finally, in this mandate on 24 November 2015, we adopted a Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, which sets out the guidelines for housing policy, by which the State contributes to the achievement of the guidelines and objectives in the housing sector, which, in the first place, seek to ensure long-term quality of living for all people and also define in their individual parts the areas of young population groups. The resolution on the national housing programme during the first phase of the bibian self-reliance in young people is primarily encouraged by rent. The measures therefore relate to increasing the accessibility of the rental housing fund. The National Housing Programme plans to regulate the rental relationship and to establish a new rent policy to increase the supply of rental apartments from the existing housing fund; on the other hand, the new building measures focus on the provision of public rental apartments in larger employment centres where the need for housing is greatest. Thus, according to the existing system, we know different subsidies for rents, but they are naturally linked to certain income conditions, with families with fewer employees, young and young families specifically listed as a priority category. Today, we already know subsidies for non-profit and market rents, which account for up to 80% of the non-profit rent on the basis of the tenant's entitlement. The Ministry of Environment and Space also reports on activities in the area of housing problems for young and young families, where alternative solutions such as affordable housing for young and residential cooperatives are examined through pilot projects. For these reasons, and especially because the proposed solution in the past has not yielded the expected results, we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration in the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u239	Dear, Vice President, Your Honor, colleagues and colleagues! Applicants, the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Housing Saving Schemes and Subsidies to Young Families for First Resolution of Housing Issues justify the novel, with data on the improvement of the economic situation in the country where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia releases a number of austerity measures while at the same time increasing budgetary expenditure in a number of areas. It would be logical for the release of austerity measures to start in young families. The new law reintroduces the national housing savings scheme and subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue and rental subsidies. The proposal provides, inter alia, for the termination of Articles 207 and 208 of the Public Finance Balance Act, which are irrelevant to the re-introduction of the housing savings scheme and subsidies to young families for the first settlement of the housing issue. The possibility of entering into new savings contracts in the national housing savings scheme is introduced. The motion for a new law justifies the amendment by arguing that the problem of resolving the housing issue in young families is even more difficult. Young people, when in many cases they also support their parents or old parents, cannot save their own money to buy apartments. Moreover, because of unemployment or on-the-spot forms of employment, they cannot rent housing loans, while business banks also require non-life insurance for loans and marriages, and they reject the possibility of hiring loans even with an argument of excessive numbers of children. For this reason, it is necessary to reintroduce the possibility of saving and renting more favourable loans under the housing savings scheme. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members in general. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u241	I listened attentively to the views of the parliamentary groups and somehow the expected story, if any, is an opposition proposal. First of all, let me thank all those who have supported this proposal and see it as a well-meaning contribution to solving the housing problem of young people. But as for the coalition and the United Left, it's a standard story. At first glance, you say it's okay, but there's always something that doesn't make this thing work. You've been exposing all sorts of things, but the fact is, in those things that you've been exposing, things just don't work. And when you look and look, what would work, you come up with this solution that we've proposed. Various possibilities exist in the world for young people to reach their homes. Absolutely. Unfortunately, many of these options are not available in Slovenia. It is not my fault if there are no more social housing available to young people at affordable prices. And instead of criticising our proposal, it would be better to ask ourselves why there are no more social issues. I think that would be a much more appropriate question. With regard to housing cooperatives, we do not oppose them. I wish there were as many as possible. But perhaps the country should also have its own housing policy, tax or otherwise promote this activity in order to establish these housing cooperatives. Just talking about them, such as a Member of the Social Democrats or some others, is unfortunately not enough. If the coalition is serious about housing cooperatives, then some concrete measures will have to be taken to reach these housing cooperatives. Some other solutions were mentioned, say – I don't know what to call this, but – optimisation of the use of current apartments. If I look at my generation, say those who are between the ages of 30 and 40, I think that the vast majority of their first housing problem solves us by optimizing their parents' apartment houses. This is already a practice today. At least my case is such that my parents, who now have all the children we married and my sisters moved away, a smaller need for squares, moved to the ground floor, because my family can have two floors. This is how we optimized in my family. And, of course, many of my peers do. But a lot of young people don't have a chance like I did. That I had parents who built the house, and then we redistributed, optimized. Many youths do not have it and are forced to go to a rental apartment or buy an apartment. That conspiracy that a Member of the Social Democrats has drawn, how this proposal has been made in cooperation with banks or even with banks, as he said. Give me a word or let him come back to the hall and say so himself. [[…]] In young people, if they don't have rich parents to buy them an apartment or a house, okay, one option goes away if they don't have parents with a house to give them a piece of their house, and if they don't inherit anything, then the only option is to rent or buy an apartment. There are no other options. And then we come up with a question about how to get the money back. Let them know if any other institution gives money other than banks. In Slovenia, I don't know any institutions that would pay huge sums to buy or rent an apartment. If he knows, he should come and tell. I don't know. Given that this proposal of ours has been made for the benefit of the banks, it would be good to read only Article 5 of this Act. Article 5 because he spoke, why just buy, why not rent apartments. Let me read only Article 5, which states that this solution is intended for the first resolution of the young family's housing issue and is considered the first purchase, construction, reconstruction, change of destination or rental. So it's also about renting apartments. Article 2 of this law is also important – because it was scary how we are now working in cooperation with banks – which says that the bank must not charge additional costs for the conclusion and management of the savings contract, the approval and conclusion of the loan contract and the management of the loan. I don't know how we could limit the law of the bank any more. I can't imagine. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to spit out the opposition proposal if it's a worthless proposal and then dream of some solutions. We have come up with a concrete proposal, and this concrete proposal is such that young people are given lower interest rates or specific financial assistance. We are not smart enough to think of it ourselves, but we have only used what many young families have warned us about. That such a solution could in the past have taken them either saved or unloaded them for up to two instalments of credit per year. These are already specific aids and specific amounts. Our professional associate, John Brickler the King, and I agreed that I could tell him a purely personal story about how these things work in young people today. He was not fortunate enough to have parents with a large apartment or to have parents buy him an apartment or inherit anything, and he had to solve his own housing issue. First by rent, now in later periods with long-term housing loans. It's amazing what things banks go into when you negotiate for interest rates. You can imagine, because he has three children, a bank employee told him that this is a big risk, that three children are standing up and that it's not exactly a whim to be granted credit at all, but, above all, that he's a risky customer. Now there are four more children on their way. What am I trying to say? That this law is meant for families of this kind. For families that have more children today because they have more children and because they do something good for Slovenia, bullied everywhere, from country to bank. And if we wanted to make a law through the procedure that would allow young people to have a slightly lower interest rate or even a concrete financial contribution, there would be a thousand comments or objections. I find it interesting that I've been waiting for someone here to expose the financial consequences of this law. According to our assessment, these financial implications are EUR 3 million, which is ridiculously low compared to how austerity measures have been reduced in many other areas so far. But look, all of this is commendable on the side of the coalition, that at least there are no financial consequences, I certainly have to admit that. The debate by the representative of Desus seemed to me somewhat underestimating to the young. As today’s young people themselves are incompetent, they can’t wash or cook, double doctors and the like. To make the best of our lives at the Hotel Mama. I don't know what kind of young people the Ambassadors of Desus hang out with, but those young people I'm hanging out with, they all want to go on their own, they all want to go to their apartment or their house. Only if they have a chance. Most likely it is not their fault that the situation is such that these apartments are difficult to reach. I think it is our duty in Parliament to look for alternatives and opportunities for young people to get to their homes as quickly as possible, because there is no great science fiction here. I'm sure this is where specific actions count. Maybe the United Left has a terrible problem when we're talking about demographics? And here, too, the numbers are very exact. If we want to survive as a nation, we need 30,000 children and we have 20,000. Ambassador Tomić once taught me to look at demography so very old-fashionedly, that these 10,000 can be replaced by migrants or those who are new to Slovenia. I admit we're different here. Perhaps in the United Left we would open the borders a little bit more, and we are looking for solutions for Slovenian families to decide for more children. I don't think it's blasphemous, and that because of these desires or desire, no one should be offended or attacked, if we're some badass because we're trying to have more children in Slovenian families. Those of you who are sociologists, I believe you've read a social survey or research. Neither do young people philosophy, but they say: job, apartment. As a policy, we can still agree that things are a little bit more complicated in the service, because from today to tomorrow to 20, 30, 40 thousand new jobs, it is, I think, much harder than creating conditions for young people to reach housing. If we look at it, we will probably find that the housing fund is relatively solid or that the apartments in Slovenia are relatively solid. Access to this can be very problematic and questionable, especially if you look at older generations in the countryside, for many of them who built houses in the 1970s and 1980s and are alone in the house today, these houses are too large. But, of course, they built it with their hands, and they won't just give it up. I believe, however, that it might be easier to do this or trade it for a smaller apartment, a more convenient apartment, if we made an environment that would also encourage tax or otherwise people to do so. I'm going to count again the options or solutions that exist to get to the apartment. The proposal on the table is that we help young people with loans and with some concrete money. This is the proposal that's on the table today. Those who disagree, tell us how we will get to housing cooperatives as soon as possible, where are the tools or laws that will encourage this activity. Also, say a word about how you imagine optimisation, the use of current apartments. And another thing no one's ever talked about today, and especially we see it as an opportunity, is rent-to-buy. So that you're paying the rent and that this rent is included in your final purchase. But here, of course, must be the owner's interest in enabling you to do so. Even if the owner is not encouraged by any tax matters, it is likely that everyone prefers to rent all the time or sell it in one amount. I would like today's debate to focus mainly on the issue of how to make it possible for young people to come to their homes. Let this be the debate. Because it seems to me that if we have a lot of ideological debates in this House, where we can argue on the living and the dead about ideology, history, 1945, and I don't know what else, but the solution to the housing issue of young people is a subject that is difficult to slightly over-potentiate in an ideological sense. When you listen to the views of the parliamentary groups, no group has forgotten to mention a great deal of concern for young people. The same parliamentary group that says that it is mainly in favour of the pensioners. If we take a step forward in today's debate to make this concern for young people concrete, then we have done a lot. This seems to me to be an essential thing and an essential achievement of today's debate. New Slovenia put this proposal on the table, the coalition can rightly say that we do not agree to make such a proposal. However, if everything remains at the level of some declarations and declaration stories, of course we do not go far. I will listen with interest to what the debate will show today, and I hope that things will move forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word to prepare for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Dr. Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I would only remind Mr Trček, who spoke of all those who were sitting in the government who had introduced the situation in 25 years, that SMC had been created in 2014 and could not tackle the situation before its creation, but was sitting in the government. So maybe a little more detail in the debate wouldn't hurt, despite all the scale and let's say this is a little more scenic. Mr Tonin said that all the debaters point out that at first sight this is also like or good. This is not good for me at first sight, and I am not saying that this is a good proposal that you are offering. You're saying that you want to encourage young people to have babies, and that's why they need apartments, and that you want to facilitate access to housing loans. That's what you said in your opening debate. You have further led this into this direction that this system has already existed and has been good and how these former young people are now walking — apparently formerly because they are not so young anymore, since your own government has abolished these incentive measures to alleviate the housing problems of these young families, you have done it yourself — to you and tell you how great this has been and how this action worked and how to give it back because it is so good. That this measure is so very good, I'm not quite sure. And I'm going to read from an online portal that I don't advertise because it's a commercial portal, but the description of the actual situation is pretty graphic, and how this system didn't work as perfectly as those young people who are going to sue you for how beautiful and beautiful it was. I quote, 2005: “Last year this savings scheme expired. The savers, who actually saved for the purchase of real estate, were on the market. Those who were planning to buy property somewhere in the countryside, and they were, of course, in a minority, still quite satisfied, and those who were planning to buy property in Ljubljana or its surroundings had a shock. Prices of real estate have increased dramatically in these five years, especially in the last year before the end of this scheme. The savers realized that they could not actually buy any more real estate than they could afford using credit, before they started saving in this national scheme, even though they now took the promised favourable loan. In fact, their money invested at that time has grown as much as the prices went up. The desired property, those who so desired it, cannot afford it despite promises at the beginning of saving. These five years they had to stay somewhere and now they will have to pay for the loan.” It also says here that if instead of saving it themselves, they took the loan somewhere else and bought the property, they would have had it for five years, and at that time this property would have increased the price and would have been more favourable for them than if they had entered this savings scheme, which is now so much sang and you want to return it. It's one of these traps, so I wouldn't be so crazy sure that it's great and that it's a good way forward. The other thing that is quite obvious about this is that you promote this traditional principle first the crutch, then the cow. But it's my barn. It's got to be my barn, even if it's either with credits or a savings scheme, but it's got to be mine. Then you made a mistake to write in one article somewhere, so that this savings scheme could also be used for a rental apartment. I don't know who's going to pay for some savings scheme so he can go for the tenant. That seems a little illogical to me, but good, okay. What do I want to point out? In Slovenia we have this cult domestically, my crutches embedded in the subconscious of everyone. In Slovenia this is so strong that only 8.2% of the rentals are inhabited and only every 15 inhabitants of Slovenia live in them. Everyone else just wants to be in some of their own home, their own environments, where they own, and that's kind of a fetish. Compared to Europe, where at least 30% of the rental apartments are here, we are on a good eight. If we go further, you wrote in an explanation in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, that the market for renting apartments is poorly developed, that the housing fund is trying to fix this, but somehow it is not going well, and then you talk about Switzerland, how Switzerland promotes the development of housing cooperatives following the example of abroad. Switzerland has 56% of tenants, they live in rental apartments, and most of them own apartments. In Sweden, the Netherlands has 40% of renters, Norway alike, in Iceland. Instead of moving closer to this trend, you do have — what do you have in your articles? In the articles you talk about saving, when you can start planning in the long term, terms of saving, lending, anything to get people to own. If the goal of a quality life is to save you years and then sit down and say, that's mine I don't know, maybe it's some kind of ideology in New Slovenia or a vision of what the essence of a young person is – that he can say, it's mine. [[…]] Is the fact that he lives a quality life in an appropriate apartment, which is available at a normal price, which allows him to spend his income on something else, or that after 30, 40 years he can move in and say, but now this is finally mine, even though my children have moved away, but this is mine, and now I'm going to be happy to live here for another 10, 20 years in retirement and then die in my apartment? I don't think the logic you're following is going in the right direction. When you ask where we should go, which way we should go, Mr Tonin, you have probably questioned Mrs Secretary of State and colleague Dolinsk. They have explained what this government is doing, what plans it has, which are outlined in the national housing programme, and which are going in this direction, to strengthen rental apartments, so that the offer of rental apartments, which will be appropriate, will be cheap enough and will be accessible primarily to young people. Because this is where young people are particularly mentioned, if you have listened well – a pilot project to provide affordable housing for young people who first solve the housing issue. This is a pilot project already under way. Then a pilot project to provide housing for residential communities for young people, that is to say, those who have or have stopped studying can no longer be in student homes or have been employed early and are not studying. This is where the government is looking for solutions. Then the housing cooperatives. Just what you've been explaining before about how beautiful they have in Switzerland, is the housing cooperative, you become a member of it, and then you have through your lifetime slowly, when you climb up, when your family is a large, large apartment, after you don't need it anymore, you go into a smaller one, and everything is somehow adjusted to some reasonable logic and living circumstances, through which most of us are going through, planning or having a family. Everyone else is probably thinking about the quality of life, at least modern generations, but not about taking credit and getting an apartment. In this sense, it is probably necessary to keep thinking. Of course, it is necessary to step up efforts in the sense that young people have available as soon as possible renting apartments, affordable housing, in accordance with the standard. In this way, of course, it is also possible to achieve these goals that you are talking about – to stimulate demographic growth, because this is certainly one of the conditions for young people to decide for children. However, this is not the case in this proposal. We said why it wasn't appropriate. Because it shoes something that has already been very successful, at least for most, not as you try to present it. Unfortunately, this law cannot be supported in such a form. However, all other incentives to increase birthrates and to improve demographic imagery in Slovenia must be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Here you go. Magi's proponent. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u245	Ambassador Matić, I don't think there was any need for you to be cynical in your debate because it's a serious topic. I think we could have a normal debate, not a little mock debate in the sense that some crazy New Slovenia wants young people to have more children. What's the problem? Why is this a negative observation? Ambassador Matić, tell us what is blasphemous here if Nova Slovenija says that we want young people to have more children. I don't understand you here. And I don't understand your cynicalness here either, because it's a serious matter. Next thing. How this scheme did not work in the past and again cynicism. They were a little satisfied in the countryside, but they weren't in town. Yeah, they were happy in the country because they could buy real estate with that money. But they were able to buy them because in the countryside prices did not go up like they did in the city. In the city, however, this money was not enough because housing prices in this economic economy soared. That was the main problem. But you're painting this whole scheme a little bit less than how someone took this money from these young people to cheat them. Thank God you said that in this scheme, however, part of the money has been transformed. But of course less than the apartments went up. It is essential that no one has fooled the young people with this scheme, that they have not lost money in this scheme, and that there is a completely different story that the price of dwellings has gone up. What this government is doing. Great. Fine. If all of this really worked as well as it was presented, young people today would have no housing problems and problems. Then these matters could easily and quickly be resolved. But if that were the case, then perhaps the matter would be resolved and these things would not be discussed in Parliament today. Another cynicism that I see in you is a decision between a rental or a property. We do not prescribe in this law that young people choose to rent or own. I don't know where you came from or where you can see that the intention of this law is that everyone has to come to their own apartment if you are — because you have read the pages of the law, page 13 — you can look at article 5 that discusses financial assistance for young people, including renting an apartment. We don't make decisions for young people, we leave them a choice. If they want to, they should go try to solve the rent problem, if they have a chance, and they should go shopping. However, I can agree in this part with you that the mentality in Slovenia is such that we are all looking for ownership apartments. That's a fact. But what I want to say is, with this law, what young people have to do, we don't prescribe, we allow young people to make their own decisions. Even if this law, Member Matić, had been supported, you would not have dropped the crown from your head, I don't think it would have endangered public finances or anything else, nor would it have made the bank rich, but would have only allowed young people to have at least one small tool to help them get to their homes. I don't think that would be too much of an effort for you. I would understand you if you objected to this law because it would have serious financial consequences, but this law will not have severe financial consequences, but it can be a convenient tool. And another thing, where this is so – the standard reading in the repertoire when the last proposals come from the opposition: yes, Mr Tonin, because your government has proposed to end this. It certainly is, but in 2012, when public financial circumstances were completely different than they are today. Today you have a billion euros more than our government has, and in public you want to paint things that are the same, if yes, you did those things then and now you are trying to reintroduce these things. But the difference is one billion euros in revenue in the budget. And our point, explained at the outset, at the beginning and even in the explanation of the law in the text, if you have read, is that if austerity measures are released everywhere, then they should also relax in the area of family policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Matic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. First of all, there's more about this billion euros. This government has to pay for the poofs you hired at 7%, when, I think, Guinea Bissau and Nigeria had some similar interest rates. Of course, this government must do something else, it must reduce the public financial deficit and, of course, it also has a fiscal rule that you did not have at the time. So this populism is a little valuable, Mr. Tonin. I don't know if when you listened to me, Mr. Tonin, you were sitting on your ears or listening. Either way, I'm the only one who thinks both. Because I did not use the term “mixed New Slovenia”. Please don't give me credit and put your own words in my mouth. If you think your New Slovenia is crazy, it's just your assessment, I didn't say that. But if you listened carefully, and obviously you didn't, my speech, I said that the demographic picture was important and that the housing issue was important in order to improve the demographic picture, and I generally agree with that. You said that this was one of the tools that would not endanger public finances because it had no public financial implications – then the question is why did you stop it in 2012 if it had no public financial implications. This argument is again a little illogical, Mr Tonin, it's going to take a little bit of, what do you say, to concentrate when you're using some of the expressions that support your thesis. That would be a tool with which I wouldn't have dropped the crown off my head if I'd supported the Tool if it were good. [[…]] But to me, this tool seems to be missing. I told you why I think it's missing. Because he travels young people to credit because he travels them on a path that is contrary to European trends and is going in the wrong direction. I don't understand, you said that most of them weren't happy with it – because I read it clearly. That some who bought some real estate in a little less, as I would say, an attractive place would be satisfied — perhaps some would be found. That they did not lose funds to young people — because they did not lose them, they lost time, or 5 years, or as long as the housing scheme lasted, they waited, and the result was nothing, they lost time and time was money, thus is money. They probably lost something we're talking about right now. Which is important. I do not understand that, Mr Tonin, you refer to those subsidies in Article 5, and I am really interested in who will save 5 years to go rent an apartment, and why this seems logical to you, Mr Tonin. This is for a short time, all of your escapades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Proposer, please, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u249	It must be really difficult for Ambassador Matić to change things completely in five minutes and turn them upside down. World champion in changing attitudes. But I found that he now claims that NSI is a super customer and that the demographic picture is problematic. We've made progress, however, which is good. As far as the debate is concerned, why did young people choose these tools? Mr Matić, perhaps if we had enough money, they would not have to decide for this tool, but they would go to the bank, take a regular loan and buy an apartment. This tool was decided on because it was most likely that they did not have the resources. This Article, Mr Matić, read it, not about better interest rates, but about concrete financial incentives. You'd probably be happy to go to a rental apartment if the country added something to you. We're talking about these things. Who was sitting in their ears? Probably, if anyone reads the magnetogram, they'll be able to figure it out. I used to say that the financial consequences of this law are EUR 3 million. I commended the coalition for not exposing it as a reason to go against this law. And because, of course, you have again highlighted why we stopped this at first stage, Mr Matić, if you were there in 2012, then you could see how difficult the situation was, how practically in all areas it was necessary to break as much as possible, even if it was only 3 million euros. In all areas. And if anyone is a demagog, you're the demagog. You're telling us that in 2000 we made out and rented loans. Yes, God have mercy. I don't know, there's a government that's been making a big deal out of it from 2008 to 2011. 2012 just came up with an account when these things had to be resolved somehow. If I understand you correctly – why did you owe yourself at such a high interest rate? So, Mr. Matić, what's the alternative? Going for cheap money with threes? The President of the Government, Mrs Bratušek, was also not the solution for calling the troika to Slovenia. And we'd rather go to the market for more expensive money. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. I'm listening to this and I'd like to talk to someone about the problem of housing policy, but of course I'm lonely and, as a result, Dr. Matić is vehement. Probably like he'd be vehement if we talked about the archives or the subject of his doctoral assignment. I just master the subject. What am I supposed to do now, pretend she's not?Oh, my God! Who is to blame for the back, who is not to blame for the back, I have little time to go on for a long time, but, at the latest, residential policy should be reconsidered and re-implemented and worked in the 2004-2008 mandate. And I'm not going to mention to any of the gentlemen that the Member of Parliament in seat 90 is not going to jump in the luft, but that's when it happened. And then we worked on this bank hole. In fact, the proposaler also devoted himself a little bit, maturely now more to this topic, and apparently some pingponging Matić-Tonin, Tonin-Matic is happening here. In the companies we belong to, it's supposed to be normal, no matter what government, that there's about 30% of your revenue going to save the stable, as you would call it, to move into space. In this way, we should optimise our policies. But if we look at what young people now earn – not young, but old, what are the prices of real estate with us, what are the costs of oligopolitans on the market, if you want, heating, energy and so on. It is not true that we have a good housing fund, we have a relatively old housing fund, comparatively speaking. But let's say the media has finally started to leak that we will have the energy strategy of Slovenia, and now there will be no more what we will do with it, how we will save energy, but the lobby will work for NEK 2, for a new nuclear power plant that will cost us, like this country, if we don't get it into our hands, probably before 8 billion more than 4 or 5 billion. I really don't know where we're gonna get them either. A few governments back then could set up a rental market, and they didn't fix it, so we got a loose end. No one mentioned any area, after all, protected farms and long-term leases. No one mentioned any thought, perhaps some form of smart tax policy, that if someone who spoke to a colleague named Tonin had a half-empty house, he could also hire someone who would also — solidarity was discussed — take care of someone. Since I have very little time — I highly appreciate your expert John, we often talk. My friend Tonin knows that if John and I are to go with the families and take you with us, and Lyudmila with some granddaughter, we have to order a small bus. So much for the kids, and the United Left about the kids. Even in a few references, it was so when he had the most child — who? Secretary SD, if I recall. And the right hand somehow always reads and colleague Tonin, of course, is not a process of modernisation as a polytologist sprayed, but is pretended to spray it. We're not gonna raise birth to 2.3. We won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Dr. Although Franz Trček pessimistically concluded that we will not raise fertility to 2.5, I must say that I always listen to it very respectfully, not only here, but many more hours sit on the working bodies, and that his discussions have a lot of salt. Even though we are politically in completely opposite fields, I like to listen to him. That's just what the doctor of science says. He knows something about the problem that we're discussing right now. But I have to say, and I am very disappointed, I am really disappointed that one former doctor of science is getting as cynical as to suppress the worm on the road, getting over the proposal for a solution to New Slovenia, the opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as there is such a climate and as long as there is so much cynicism for any solution, there is no help for us. Not at birth, not at solving the housing problem, family problems, employment, the problem of young people, which is a huge problem, not only in our country, but also in Europe, the whole of Europe. And I really regret New Slovenia has prepared a solution and you just said, some are not suitable for further consideration. [[…]] It is not suitable for further consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has already been in force, this law has been in force and the Constitutional Court has not extinguished it. We are part of this law, these solutions that were good, unfortunately – yes, also New Slovenia, we were in the government that had to save this country from bankruptcy in 2012. I know it was very difficult at the time, I know, I remember, for us, colleagues from Desus, colleagues from SDS, it was very difficult. Why did this marriage work out well? I tell you, because then the voters, citizens and citizens, the young families were literally waiting for us and they said, "New Slovenia, listen to what you're doing to us, we've had you and we've got you as family advocates, and now you're giving this kind of a solution. We have barely proved, I believe that we have not been successful, why we must take this brutal step. Yes, but here I agree with Dr. Matić that we have set up a minimum of several million at the annual level. Here we now write financial effects, good three million euros. If we don't have three million euros and we can't give them to young families, there's no other way to help us. And now the government says – I respect the Secretary of State very much and I am sure that I know her so much, we had the opportunity at one event to chat a little together to support this law ourselves, unfortunately here must defend the government's position – that this law has had negative effects in the past. Now, please, those who say this have had negative effects in the past, bring three people who have benefited from the provisions of this law who have not been satisfied. Bring me three men. No, please, talk thoughtfully and cynically. Let's do numbers, give it to people, give it names and surnames. I've been having nightmares lately, when we've been here in this house, in this temple of democracy, where our people put us -- yes, even young families have elected us here, we haven't bought this function, at least a large majority of us haven't – and we're here to work for all layers, for all citizens and citizens of our country, including for young families. I can't accept and will never accept the readings, or in today's debate, at one of the previous meetings was the opening of New Slovenia, to glorify the family and to complain that 10,000 children are not born enough if we want the Slovenian family to survive. Comrade Duck will quickly calculate this for you, masters zero mathematical models. If the birth rate is what it is today, the mathematical model will show that there, the 2050 river, is no longer helping us, because we will probably be under a critical mass and we will only be followed by extinction. And now it seems to be the wrong thesis, the wrong assumption, or the wrong statement. But that's a fact. That's what the numbers show, that's what the models show, and that's the fact. Some of you say it is pointless that New Slovenia points out that this is irrelevant, but on a global level, more people are born every day. Okay, okay. But I would like, ladies and gentlemen, that in this Slovenian space even after a thousand years, as long as the Slovenians exist here, there are at least a thousand more or at least 2,000 years of Slovenians. Once it's empty, others fill it. Of course, this is what we are experiencing today, looking with us. I don't even mean refugees and migrants here. Around us are countries that have a much higher national pride, looking slightly differently at the existence of their own nation. Like the Western neighbor this spring. Let's see what the Italians have done about fertility and Slovenia seems like science fiction. Why am I talking about birth? Because it's kind of necessary for a family to actually live in some nest. We heard earlier, and I had an association that led us to some kind of theoretical or virtual apartment. I don't know that and I can't imagine it. Are there going to be housing cooperatives or will there be rents or whatever — whom can we force? The one who says, “Yes, look, ownership sucks, rather rent,” young families can count to five. Probably all of us, the 90 of us, too, and figure out quickly what's worth more to me. Renting an apartment, paying an indefinite rent or practically the same amount I give for the monthly annuity to pay off the loan and then once it's my apartment and I've created some value. But now it seems like it's wrong to live in a rental apartment. And look, what the government is writing to us, and I'm not a cynic, I'm just saying that I'm critical of this and that I have enough of all these pilot projects, you know. One pilot project and another pilot project I do not know how long these pilot projects will be implemented, and I want solutions now. [[…]] Why? Because they already exist in the world. There's hot water in the world. The fact is, there are always two ways to respond to a problem. Either we deal with him or we ignore him and pretend he doesn't exist. This other one, of course, is easier and you're kind of slowing down, it's going to be someone else, it's not like, we're not going to get political points, we're going to lose voters and so on. Why are we here? Are we working to do what is right or to do what is right? Because some countries do it right, and that's why they beat us to the left and to the right. Nobody tells us today that we are a new star in the European sky, as we were in 2008, when we were the first new member to preside over the Council of the European Union. If you look at the Italians, when the new prime minister found out when they showed him statistics that they had the lowest birth rate, he immediately provided 600 million immediately for this year. Probably this is not much money for their budget, which is significantly larger than ours, and what is important is that it immediately provided 600 million money and in some ways encouraged – what? Young families. Next year, 700 million will be provided. And we're already at 1.3 billion in two years. These trinkets that we are proposing here in this law are worth about €3 million, and this law has already worked. Once again, it's working. And now you say, "No, but now suddenly after five years it is not suitable for further consideration." No one is going to convince me of this except the Constitutional Court. And I would really ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we are aware of why we are sitting here and why we are getting parliamentary salaries. Why? Are we worth it? Is it because of what we throw in the form of opposition or at least most of the opposition laws, or do we say, oh, it doesn't matter, who proposed the law, but what if we improve it in the second treatment or the next parliamentary procedure and all of us make one good product, this time to solve the first housing problem, the issues of young families? Someone told me that when I was literally attacked by ZUJF and I stopped it: “Look, when I received the subsidy, I covered two annuities with an annual subsidy for the loan I hired.” But today we also watch, read adverts, apartments for young families, the price of 3,000 euros per square metre. Okay, if someone had rich parents in the back, it'd probably be an acceptable price. I don't know anyone who's capable of buying, I don't know, 60 square meters of apartment, young family, 3,000 euros a square meter. Just make the market your own. If now we think we need to get young families to rent apartments, okay, heroes on schedule, invest, invest in apartment blocks and rent them. But please, with low rent for young families. Low. Will anyone go to this investment to build a housing block? Nobody. Nobody. Unfortunately, economic legality is also working, and this is a problem that we must face when dealing with the housing problems of young families. Is it normal for us to be Slovenians at the top of Europe, where young people between the ages of 18 and 29 live with their parents and are in excess of 80%, about 85%. The higher percentage is only in Malta, Germany, Finland, Austria, and there is this percentage around 20. 85% of young people aged 18 to 29 in Slovenia live with their parents. The Hotel Mama is very fine, but tell your moms if it's okay for the development of society. And if Dr. Duck had more time, it would be interesting to listen to him whether it's okay or not now. We think that it is necessary to be independent, that young people have to stand on their own feet, create their own nest, if I can speak so little poetically, and then that's that kind of normal solution. I really regret that, with so little thought, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, follow the Government's view that the law is not appropriate. What you're following and saying is not appropriate, but what do we care about young families looking for an apartment where they want, where tents are cheap and so on. I'm sorry if I'm imposing such an impression on you right now, but I just don't understand that now that we're doing well, when we're not in front of bankruptcy, we wouldn't include those solutions that have worked well and are truly good. Instead of looking for solutions in a reasoned manner, we are already considering what amendments will be like in the second reading, listening to cynical debates, if anything, to New Slovenia. I also regret today’s day — if yesterday’s was very good for me, in some positive spirit, it is sad to conclude in some dark pessimistic spirit. I'm very sorry to share my feelings with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me go on with what my colleague finished. When we were reading a little bit about the possibilities for young families to come to their homes, those in which they could form a family or raise a family, so that there would be enough room later when children grew up, went to high school or college, I looked at an article in which a four-member family was looking for such an apartment in Ljubljana, an orderly house. And look at the fraction, everything is fine, beautiful apartments, architects have struggled, everyone has realized their masterpiece, but look what the prices are. From 307,000 to 470,000 euros. How the young family should then – if they accidentally collect 20% of this and then try to get credit for 30 years, it came from the bank that each of the spouses should have a net monthly salary of 1,800 euros to buy it in 30 years. We Members have 2,000 euros net up there. Thus, two young Members would be difficult, but they should still be a Member for 30 years in order to repay such a house. That's the problem. What, as the colleague said, is the interest of someone to go with some public money, such as the congregation, to build new apartments for some housing funds, which will cost 300,000 euros for one family. Under what conditions then, what will be the rent? That she won't be marketed to be, I don't know, social. I don't see any money or big possibilities here. On the other hand, there are many buildings in Ljubljana that are falling apart. They're their own purpose. They're tearing down houses. We have been talking about European law for a long time, such as property tax, but we are not getting to it. Why? How many buildings are in Ljubljana, only in Ljubljana, where no one is staying and standing empty? And it's in places like this where there were only a few hundred thousand euros of parcels years ago. How can we not stimulate these people or force them to end up with taxes because all the infrastructure is there to speed up these owners to do something about these objects? We have a lot of these facilities in the countryside. I come from a congregation with 900 households and 300 housing units free, empty. It's really not downtown, it's not exactly on the freeway, it's very close. Well? The trend has begun to make students buy – do you know what the 25,000 euro building is, 30,000 euros? The deposit is another 10,000 euros, and it's a nice stay. Now it's no longer a problem as it used to be when they walked on the train for two or three hours to get to work and then to the train from the train. There's an optical network near these buildings. It's the Internet. All over the congregation. Everyone needs to dig about 100 or 200 meters, pulls the cable and has Internet and plumbing. It's a trend. On the other hand, there are many of these buildings built 20 years ago, 30 years ago, without a building permit, although they can't obtain it under our legislation. What's more beautiful than a building with about 80 square feet of residential space, a plot of 10 acres, a orchard, a few vineyards, some kindergartens, on a location like a mile or two from the highway? A lot of people move both older and younger. If we had a law, as in the neighbouring country of Croatia on legalization, to legalise it, municipalities would cash in the municipal contribution and build on the missing municipal infrastructure, they would improve the conditions for living. In any event, if someone reports a permanent residence, then the municipality is obliged to maintain the roads, bring a water supply, soon the country will invent that we will have to build a sewer around these vineyards if the agglomerations are to be the same as they are now. We must create some conditions for stay. And why don’t these people — in one way or another — continue to grow in our soil — cultivate some more than 10 or 20 acres [10 or 20 acres] of agricultural land and produce some quality food for themselves? Maybe that's where the solution is. People, thinking changes, even in young people. Are we following these changes at all? I have three at home alone, and when I talk to young people, they have begun to think substantially differently in recent years. It's not like they move in America every couple of years for a hundred miles for a job and live there in a trailer or some house, mobile. No, but that's where we're going. Let us regulate the legislation and all these regulations, and the conditions for young people to create something for themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I sum it up a little bit, it's very quick to discuss coalition parties. Desus said like this, you have to, you have to. The SD further interprets this way, we will, we need to do significantly more. SMC, he didn't even make a promise, but he just said that the law wasn't suitable for further consideration. If I go back a little bit to the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies to Young Families for the First Resolution of the Housing Problem, I would say that at the time of the merger, when the country developed heavily, this was at the time of about 2006 to 2009 – there was a start-up of construction, to a large extent also building of dwellings, there was a lot of possibility of buying apartments on the market or even hiring them, even the purchasing power was relatively large at the time, in short, there was a lot of work for citizens and, of course, for young people too. They also earned money and then had the opportunity or the purchasing power, and many apartments were purchased during that period. In fact, I would say that this austerity scheme lost its significance during that period, because other forms somehow prevailed or the possibility of solving the housing problem was much greater for young people as well. From then on, it has been 8 years and in fact there are no more opportunities on the market today, such benefits as they were at the time. In short, there's no way for young people to buy these apartments. At that time, the government, which has been in power for three years, has not made any proposals on the table how to solve this problem today, which is significantly different than it was 8 years ago. True, there are quite a number of empty apartments on the market, but all these apartments are in the middle of some red tape. They are at a bad bank, and because of all these failed construction investors, they are burdened in one way or another, in short, these apartments are still in unsolvable condition and have been empty for years, and they will still be for some year. The same or similar example is found in banks where banks still wish to pay or reach their book value by selling these apartments. In short, young people today find it very difficult to get to these apartments. The Republic Fund, which should actually be a support to citizens who are looking for a solution to the housing problem, – I would say not before now – does not have the added value of being one serious support to the solution to the housing problem. This proposal of the law gives some resurgence and help young families to actually offer them something in the Republic of Slovenia or to help them survive in the Republic of Slovenia. Because we know that more and more young people are looking for work abroad, they will seek it with even greater concern if they cannot solve even the housing problem in our own, domestic, country. This needs to be realized and these problems cannot be resolved in any way by a brief reply that the law is not suitable for further consideration. This is just as the government coalition would say today, look, this law is really none of our business. So the ignorant attitude of the government coalition is up to this problem, and this problem will be even greater tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, because it is not in sight to improve the situation in this area. Investment potential, especially when it comes to market building or even when it comes to the construction of social, non-profit housing, these aspects and, of course, this optimism is not in Slovenia. Since there are no such investors, the Republic Housing Fund is primarily looking for profitable investments, and the state is not the type of support to actually approach this issue. I believe that this proposal for a law on housing for young people does not fully address it, but at least it is a start, an attempt, or a proposal to come to the table, that there is something to be done on this segment. This is the main purpose of the proposalr, to draw attention to the problem and to the need to do something on this segment. Of course, such a proposal is not rejected by total ignorance, but is either improved or made an additional, better proposal. This is the right way and the right approach to solving and improving the acute problem of dwellings for young people in the Republic of Slovenia. I also propose to the government coalition to start thinking seriously. Another year is until the elections, not now, but the priorities say, we reject everything that is not ours, because this does not lead to improved results. So I propose that this proposal be supported and that, if necessary, it also improves.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to respond to the honourable Mr Tonin, the proposer of this law, first of all, that in the Group of Members, I have said that we will not be but the priorities against the law, but we will listen to this debate today, the arguments offered by the Government, or with which it has informed us of what its receptions are or what its plans are to solve this problem, and then we will decide. That's it. Next. Mr Tonin, this debate – I had a phone conversation right now and I wasn't there, but I have a record here right now. You say that the debate of representative Desus seemed somewhat underestimating to you. With all due respect for young people, I now say publicly again that I deeply appreciate young people knowing that they are being wronged. That's what I'm talking about! Blame that they have come to the world now that the situation is so and so. To send them to higher schools, for which we do not offer them jobs, to push them into the leisure work, this is not their fault, this is the fault of the situation, and also of these governments of our Members, and so on, because we allow ourselves to work with people and to have the laws we have. Then they can't wash and cook. I wasn't talking about washing and cooking, but I was talking about a hotel called Mama, which is the only place that young people who don't have money that doesn't have a job can survive. This is also what Mr Horvath spoke about, and I think it's true, and I didn't make it up. What kind of young people do we associate with, Mr. Tonin, Ambassador Desus? With people like you. I have grandchildren, I have nephews, I have neighbors' children from the neighborhood and I know how they feel. That's what I'm talking about. So, please, don't convert the words that are spoken of in the National Assembly. I would point out what I said in the position of the Group of Members, and I also talked about how I see some things. Of course, young people would like to come to the apartment, and so did you, and I agree. Or an apartment or renting an apartment, but they can't rent credits! They can't because they don't have any income. If they have them, they have them too small. The fact that our employment is still too flexible or the dismissal of the workforce is also due to the fact that those young people who are lucky to be hired are employed as holiday workers for a certain period of time, 6 months and so on, including respected companies in our country, and, of course, such a person in this case does not get credit at the bank, and elsewhere he cannot get it. However, if he has regular employment and is not reliable because tomorrow, the employer can forgive him for, we know, reasons – and, of course, he has hired a loan. What's going on? Mr Trček spoke about the assignments, even these young people, if they are lucky enough to get to their own apartment, could get a job because, as he said, they cannot pay the operating costs, they lose their roof over the road. If they have credits, then, of course, this property they live in will be sold on auction and lost again. And these are the things young people do to you, and it's unfair that they have to experience them. I would also point out that, for the first time, my debate was not as bad as you assessed it, and for the second time, it also served as a point of reference to some of my claims. I would also like to say that I very much liked Mr Ljub Žnidar's debate and that he said what was really the problem. Above all, this sentence, these arguments he listed, and that these arguments need to be worked out, that something needs to be done. I also agree that there is an urgent need to do something to change the situation in our society so that young people can have a chance to live in advance. However, I also thank Mrs Stebernak, who presented the activities the Government is taking in solving this problem. It drew attention to the national housing programme and to the resolution through the cooperative system and to this project, which was intended to be a pilot project in this area. I expect the ministry to continue its activities in this area and that we will all be able to work together to bring this policy and attitude towards young people to a higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Proposer. Here you go, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u261	Member Kotnik Popovat, few of you have been put to the turns by my debate, I hope you do not take this lightly. I certainly didn't say you had a bad discussion. You didn't have a bad argument to make no mistake. I was just saying how I got your discussion. You explained it. In that sense, the only thing you could tell me is, and here I apologize if I hurt you for saying what kind of young people you're hanging out with. And I didn't mean anything by it, but in that sense, with young people who are more attached to Hotel Mama, but I said that with those who want to go to theirs. That's the only thing you could blame me for, or say it wasn't okay. Let's just drop it. However, in the last debate, you have highlighted one thing that I agree with – that young people cannot go to credit. This law, which is before you today, could at least make it easier for young people to get to credit, and here probably I, too, cannot be sure that I also agree with that part of the debate of Commissioner Žnidar – we agree here too – which has said objectively and realistically that this law does not solve all the problems young people have on the housing issue. Absolutely, honestly, doesn't solve all the problems. However, it is an important step forward and adds one additional tool to young people in the search for housing, only that is the whole point. And if you think that young people are having a hard time getting credit and that something needs to be done, then today you have a good chance to support this law. And I am pleased that you have reaffirmed that you have not yet decided and that this debate today can convince you that you may, however, let this law go through the procedure at first reading. Accept once again the apology, if my debate has hurt you, it was not meant to be, but I told you how I felt about your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor before we move to the final part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u263	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We started this session this morning, on the 24th item of the agenda. She was a colleague of Dr. Jasna Murgel's. Even in spite of the coalition's call, because there were no government representatives here to stop the meeting and come to listen. I liked that, and I think that's the same thing. It is also what we listened to at the meeting, and all respect for the proposer, as well as for the point. At this point, I'm just going to say things that I didn't mean before, just for one reason. Because you speak from the coalition that this decision is not appropriate for further consideration. There is never a law in the National Assembly, but if one parliamentary group brings it, it is not important whether it is left or right, it is best when an amendment is added, and it is much more compact. I worked alone for six years at a housing company and spent six years dealing with housing problems in three or four or five congregations. You can believe I've been through a lot. Yesterday we listened to the President of the Government, the first man in the Republic of Slovenia, who was very incoherent when counterpart Ljubo Žnidar asked a question about the second track. I wrote myself, his distance, and his calculation of what could possibly be waiting for us in the worst case, Slovenian taxpayers. I think that this is more than 10,000 apartments in the Republic of Slovenia, so that we can better understand what we are talking about. We have an investigative commission investigating the bank scoundrels that took us $5 billion. Let us call on this commission to put the data on our table as soon as possible and adopt legislation to make it public and to put at least 10% of it back in our apartments. Why are we talking about numbers? Since, of course, the proposaler probably did not simply assess the fact that the bill, which is also due to financial consequences, is also worth a million euros. We got $5 billion in a bank hole, and there's about 800 million on the second track. If I go back to an area I've worked in for years. Many Slovenian families cannot afford an apartment. Many times it happens — I think it is positive — that a family with many children, more children than one or two, also comes from a family that has had enough children before. I think it's positive for the vocabulary. Children don't even have their own room, live in wet apartments, and when parents go to the bank to be able to get a loan that they would pay for 30 years, maybe they'll already see this apartment with their family, with their kids, they'll tell them at the bank that they won't be able to get that loan. And they continue to live in a damp apartment, and most often three children in one small room. These are our citizens and citizens. These children have schoolmates with whom they are sure to talk about it. So it's unacceptable for me, no matter who suggests it. And I wouldn't want anyone to tell me I'm talking like that. When we talk about housing problems in the Republic of Slovenia – I repeat, no matter who suggests this – I think this is some foundation on which to build it in the future, so that this austerity scheme can be even better so that we can bring it closer to those who need housing. I want to say that even when the Government adopts some laws when it comes to – and I would not like to say that – foreigners, this is an urgent matter, but when it comes to something small, something basic for our citizens and citizens, one of the Members today has also told us what lies ahead in 50 years, and the point is inappropriate for further consideration. I don't think that's right, but no matter what, of course, the biggest customer said that directly, and the two parties are turning it into a cellophane. [[…]] Regardless of who is listening today, whether older or younger. The foundation of the ministry is to enable young people to have their families, to enable them to have a marriage with which to get as close as possible to their homes. Deserving. Let me get this straight. He told me a younger man who already had a family in Australia why he decided to take a job in Australia. In addition to his work, he received an apartment, a school nearby, and a kindergarten where his family needed everything. I don't want to make it happen today that we have to be Australia. However, as a member of the National Assembly, I would like to make it clear that we should take our stand, and here I support the proposaler for housing for Slovenian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u264	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Do you want a word with me, representative of the government? No, no, no. Then the representative of the proposed magi shall have the floor. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u265	Today's debate has shown that we are all aware that there is a problem in Slovenia. And if we ask young people, for more children, apartments and jobs are key. Today we're addressing one of these problems, these are apartments. The law we have proposed allows young people to receive more favourable interest rates and concrete financial support if they are solving their first housing problem, if they are buying an apartment or a house or renting. I am not saying that this law will solve all the problems young people have, but I say that this law can represent an important additional tool that young people have to secure their homes. We have already had such things in the past, especially in the countryside, they have proved to be very useful. As far as house loans are concerned, this could have meant that the State paid them two monthly loans, i.e. two instalments a year, of which 12 were paid by the State itself and two by the State. I think that this is the concrete spending aid that the state can provide, and I am sure that this law will not jeopardise any public finances if adopted today, and that it will not cause a coalition crisis if it is supported by any of the coalition parties. The first consideration is today and could also be supported by a coalition to continue the process. I ask you to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u266	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for the Magi Act. Matthew Tonin and a representative of the government, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, chairman. If I'm listening to this debate and there's still time, I'm taking advantage of the possibility. One of those who participated in the debate said, "Thinking changes whether we follow these changes." I can firmly say that neither in housing policy nor elsewhere. I mentioned that some percentage of the income the household would actually give out of the basket for a crutch, as some say with an addition, I would say public passenger transport. Of course, we're a long way from that. However, I would not like this to be expressed as offensive to Mr Tonin, who was still educated by the EPP in Germany, to see how they have a regulated banking sector there, which is mostly owned by the three quarters of the country. This problem could eventually be solved through a bank that is still state-owned. Yesterday, Mr. Arhar and I talked to Mr. Arhar on RTV before a broadcast, and we even agree that you are not selling the bank in a way – even Tonin and I were talking then – as if I were to say to Tonin: “I will come to buy you a calf, you, Matthew, are now 14 days away from feeding and I will give you so much money,” and then I would come and say, “No, I will give you less money.” Why am I saying this? Because when we talk about housing policy, we need to talk about tied containers, about in-in. Someone's going to say that the old apartment scheme was okay and it's not connected to the apartment prices going up like that. Of course it's got something to do with it. Someone else will say, or say, “Yes, but most choose this.” There's not even a choice. If we had the possibility of some different rental apartments – the Queen of England is one of the largest owners of United Kingdom apartments, as an example like this – Ridiculum would, of course, also be able to choose. We can't even choose. In the countryside where the proposer comes from, as well as me, these positions were usually resolved by something built up, built up, then often young and old fought, because we know this psychopathology of the vocabulary. After all, we could also have an advisory office, I teach young architects in Maribor, who would come into the profession and help with such matters. I listen, and whatever government I would be, I started, somewhat challenged, with Vurnik – next year it will be 90 years from the creation of Wurnik's labor colony in Maribor – and now here I hear that the government is doing some pilot projects. Any government. And these pilot projects, they're practically out of the question. There's actually a problem here. Housing policies are some of the things that have been happening in urbanised societies or also in rurbans, which is Slovenia, for hundreds of years. We really don't have to detect hot water here. Which, somehow, saddens me, is some sort of a modality of thinking. I am deeply saddened to hear our family, family, in this national convention. And then everyone talks, I don't know, family like that and that. I know quite a few gays and lesbians who vote for New Slovenia, and we also want to make a family. One in the village, one in the village. A little in the village, a little in the city. It is also terrifying to me that we have the Ministry of the Family in our name and that this should, of course, be in the plural regardless of the kind of obstacle we come from in the National Assembly. [[…]] If you drive around Ljubljana with a troll or go for a walk in Slovenia, you will see that there are very diverse families with diverse needs, expectations, even in the area of housing policy. This measure would drink water if there were money on the other side, but there are none. Young people don't have that kind of money, but who's going to put it in this scheme? This scheme could be at the Ljubljana Bank, which would be a state bank. But what is the situation in Slovenia? Who's going to give it to you? I talked to Hanzko earlier, he pays, of course, loans to his own daughter because she's unemployed [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u268	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u269	I'm sure the National Assembly is obliged to do everything in its power. I'm talking mainly about the conditions for young people to get to their homes more easily. I will list at least five concrete solutions that could help young people get to their homes. I will start with the approach or the rent-to-buy principle, which means that young people pay rent for an apartment or house, which is then considered to be the final purchase. Those who want to own apartments. It is our duty and the duty of the State to prepare such a tax environment, so that the owner of the current property will be paid that when he receives the rent, he will put it into the final purchase because otherwise he will certainly prefer to collect the rent all the time. Then why don't you just sell it to him like that in the end? That's one solution. Another solution that the United Left very much advocates, and I agree with them, housing cooperatives. We're absolutely in favour. If there is a will for cooperatives, they should be established as soon as possible and the environment needed to do so should be adapted. Third solution, optimisation of existing apartments. There were many typical socialist houses in Slovenia in the 1970s, and our home is such a house on three floors. This number of generations, which built houses in the 1970s and 1980s, have now begun to retire, are left alone, these houses are too large for them, and again we have the opportunity to create an environment for these owners to be paid for by another young family to be taken into an apartment. Here we are again obliged to create an environment for this. The fourth solution, the more the proposal of hard socialists, which I also support, is social housing. If the state has money, if the municipalities have money, I support the construction of social housing, then these social housings will be offered at some affordable prices that are available to young people. Now we come up with a fifth solution, which we are proposing today by law. This is to provide young people with more favourable housing loans and concrete financial support for this loan. This law does not prescribe where to buy this property. They can buy it in the countryside, they can buy it in the city itself, because it may have been from the discussions of Member Trček to understand that we are more fraught in the countryside. No, this law does not stipulate where to buy real estate. Anywhere they want. Second, this law does not prescribe whether this money will go for rent or for purchase. These are the opportunities that each individual has, and he can freely decide on them. I have listed five potential solutions that I think could actually help young people get to their homes. We are proposing one thing today with the law. I said that we are not pretending that this one solution will solve all the problems young people have, but it can mean one step in this direction, making it easier for young people to get to their homes. This bill will also not jeopardize our public finances, and in the end, it seems fair to me that if we have agreed to tens of millions, even hundreds of millions that have now become loose, when various austerity measures have been removed, then the time has come when certain measures should also be released in the area of family policy. I would very much ask the coalition to consider, and this marriage at first reading supports it and complements it with us, for the adoption of this law will not cause them to have a headache. There will be no high financial consequences, but it will make the way to the home easier for many young people. I believe that one of them will also give them a thank - you note.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u270	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of Tuesday's 30th vote. 5. 2017, or on Wednesday, 31. 5. 2017. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 42. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal recommended in connection with the effective implementation of the Triglav National Park Act. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 10 Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 10 Members and Members of Parliament recommended a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the proposal, I first give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Zvonk Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u271	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Triglav National Park is one of the oldest parks in Europe and the only national park in Slovenia. The main objective of the National Park is to protect nature, preserve exceptional natural and cultural values, rare and endangered plant and animal species, and preserve and nurture cultural landscapes. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that since the establishment of the park there have been residents who have been trying to coexist with the Triglav National Park. As regards the protected area of the Triglav National Park, it is noted that during the last period the Municipality of Bohinj and the inhabitants of this area have been intensely alerted to the unsustainable coexistence in Triglav National Park. This is also affected by the harmonisation of Slovenian environmental legislation with European legislation. Many initiatives have highlighted the difficulty of staying within the Triglav National Park, and thus the growing indisposition towards or rejection of the protected area is becoming more common. In 2010, the Law on the Triglav National Park was adopted, detailing all the prohibitions, restrictions and financial incentives that should have helped the inhabitants of the area to stay in the protected area. Since the Law on the Triglav National Park is only implemented in part of the restriction, the prohibition, we have proposed two recommendations to facilitate the implementation of the law in the New Slovenia Group of Christians together with unrelated Members of the Government. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, a recommendation was adopted following a heated debate: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provide the budget with adequate funds for the implementation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park. It was accepted by a large majority. This is a step towards more effective implementation of the Triglav National Park Act. Members and Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be accepted unanimously.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u272	In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the Magi. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u273	It's a good evening for me. Slovenia is the most beautiful part of the world, we like to boast several times. And that's how it is. Much of our beauty, with which we like to boast, lies right in Triglav National Park. The Triglav National Park is the only park of national importance in our country. The only one. This certainly means that this is an area that is very important for our country. I believe we all agree. Of course, by setting up a park, we get to the protected area and thus to a certain security regime that restricts or prohibits certain interventions to space. This, of course, means certain restrictions for people living inside the park. In recent times there have been increasing warnings of unsustainable coexistence in Triglav National Park. The Mayor of Bohinj Municipality reminded us of the failure to implement the Law on Triglav National Park and the problems related to tourism in Bohinj Municipality on a regional visit to the Alliance. Today is a recommendation on the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park, and I promise that we will also highlight the problem of tourism in that end of Slovenia at one of the next meetings. The amendment of the law providing the municipalities within the Triglav National Park with state money, up to 80% of the investment value, was adopted in 2010. To this day, unfortunately, the law does not apply in this part. According to our assessment, it is not permissible for municipalities on the one hand to impose a whole set of restrictions and obligations that they must respect and implement and, on the other hand, the country does not find a few million euros that the municipalities are obliged to provide. The state budget is almost 10 billion and a few million for the municipalities of Triglav National Park cannot and cannot be a problem. The Triglav National Park is our only national park, so it is good that we take care of it, not only of the municipalities and citizens where the park is located. I am pleased that we have been able to see this problem in a uniform way on the committee and also have voted unanimously and unanimously to call on the Government to provide money for co-financing investments in Triglav National Park. I hope that we will also be heard and that the government will provide this money already this year. In addition to the financial problems encountered in the implementation of the law, some other problems were also raised on the committee. From the problem of cycling, which is permissible and regulated in the most strict area of the park, but is not allowed on the edge – it is probably a little illogical, don't you think? – until the National Assembly has already decided to transfer the seat of the Public Institute of Triglav National Park to the municipality with the most inhabitants within this park, this is the municipality of Bohinj, but nothing happens. At the Public Institute of Triglav National Park, there is also a need to highlight the problem of recruitment, which has been taking place practically since the beginning of the government's operation. Minister Irena Majcen and the Party of the Modern Centre are in the leading position of the Director of the Public Institute of Siliti and the press of a man who obviously is not a match. Unfortunately, once again, one of the bad personnel practices of this government, when it's more important that you be ours than what you know. And that's not good. If at all costs you want your people in all positions, you should have a human pool so full that such stories and games can go. Of course, I can go back to Mr Cerar's pre-election statement on how everything will be different with him and his government, but the example of the TNP, the Public Institute of Triglav National Park shows the real picture. The real picture of what it's like to frame this government today. For more than two years, the office does not have a director with full powers and full mandate, and you have repeatedly extended his science, even though this is illegal. Whatever. The problems related to the Triglav National Park are great, I am pleased that our initiative to start solving these problems has fallen to a fertile ground and that we have thus all agreed on the committee that the problems within the Triglav National Park and the financing involved must be addressed. I wish that today, too, the government receives a clear signal from all of us that the laws in this country must be respected and implemented, including for the Triglav National Park and the municipalities located in this park, and especially for the people who live on this beautiful piece of our Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u274	The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u275	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! At its 28th meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered a proposal for a recommendation on the effective implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. An additional explanation on behalf of the applicants was submitted by the MEP. Alenka Bratušek pointed out that the establishment of a protected or protected area, such as the National Park, for municipalities and citizens represents several types of restrictions on living in such an area. These restrictions are contained in Article 10 of the Law on the Triglav National Park, which sets out development guidelines that ensure the achievement of environmental protection objectives and promote sustainable development, adapted to the objectives of the Triglav National Park. In view of the limitations that municipalities and citizens face in the Triglav National Park area, Article 11 provides that additional funding for projects, investments and activities carried out by park local communities in the national park shall be provided by the park local community from the State budget for co-financing of 80 % at the estimated cost of the project or investment or the means necessary to carry out the activities, unless the other provision provides for a higher percentage of funding. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposal for a recommendation was presented by Helena Rus. She pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had mainly pointed to point 1 of the proposal for a recommendation that was substantively open to this extent, that it was not possible to understand which measures to facilitate the implementation of the law were proposed and that they had also made an inappropriate reference in the preamble to the proposal for a recommendation, which was duly taken into account in the amendment of the NSI Group. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Mrs Lidija Stebernak, stressed that the law provides for the establishment and management of the Triglav National Park as a priority for the conservation of nature and that, in its area, coordinated development is possible with natural and created data. Promoting sustainable development is specified in Articles 10 and 11, the method of financing under Articles 55 and 56. In addition to the law, several other documents have been incorporated since 2014, the most important of which is the Management Plan Regulation of the Triglav National Park for the period 2016 to 2025. With regard to the budget allocated for the implementation of the law, she stressed that, in the period 2010-2016, an average of EUR 450 000 had been paid in the public service, with an estimated EUR 585 000 in 2017, an estimated EUR 89,5 million had been planned in order to carry out the tasks for the ten-year period and the public administration’s own resources of approximately EUR 2.5 million. The parishes of Bohinj, Tolmin, Kranjska Gora highlighted the problems that the municipalities face within the Triglav National Park in relation to the implementation of the law. They pointed out that since the adoption of the law no provisions have been implemented providing that 80 % of the budget of the project for projects carried out by the local park communities are provided from the State budget. In the debate, the opposition Member and Members supported the demands of the municipalities and pointed out that one of the main reasons for the amendment until then was the law in force, the adoption of the law in that the current law mainly contained prohibitions and restrictions on environmental interventions within the Triglav National Park, and the law also sought to legislate dictions which, despite restrictions, allowed for normal development in this area. With regard to the debates between Members and Members, the State Secretary and the representative of the Environment Directorate explained that about €7 million is earmarked for the type of nature in the budget at annual level, of which 20% is intended for the implementation of the law. In the Triglav National Park area, a number of projects have been carried out so far, which are always partly related not only to nature but also to developmental content. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the NSI Group's amendment to the preamble, and the Committee also adopted two of its amendments so as to keep the part of the second point of the recommendation supplemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u276	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of the Environment and the Space of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Members and Members, a key document for the effective management of the National Park for the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park is the 10-year management plan of the Triglav National Park, which was adopted in May 2016. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we believe that the governance plan addresses, in addition to defining the protection objectives, all the important areas covered by Article 10 of the Law on the Triglav National Park, namely the development guidelines on agriculture and forestry, the promotion of economic, social, social and environmental development towards the national park, friendly tourism and activities that contribute to the preservation of jobs, the protection of nature, the preservation of cultural heritage, sustainable mobility and the use of energy. It is important to stress that the Ministry of Environment and Space invests a great deal of energy and resources in the implementation of this plan. Good results in the area of development and nature protection in the national park can only be expected if we manage to connect all parties and stakeholders with an integrated approach, in addition to the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Public Institute, the Triglav National Park also ministries concerned with the above areas, as well as local environments with municipalities, development agencies, local tourism organisations and other institutions. The management plan provides for €89.5 million for the 10-year management of the National Park. The Ministry of the Environment and Space for the implementation of the TNP management plan during this period will allocate €23 million from the state budget and nearly €64 million from the ministries. On the basis of the governance plan in 2017, almost € 1.6 million is allocated to the Public Institute of TNP and an additional €210 000 will be allocated for the implementation of the development tasks in 2018. Let me stress that the financing of the Triglav National Park currently stands for the Ministry of the Environment and Space for one fifth of all the resources allocated by the Ministry to preserve nature. With regard to the implementation of Article 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park, which provides that, in connection with the development guidelines referred to in Article 10, park local communities are provided with additional funds of 80 % of the budget value and that an additional 10 % of the points are provided for in the tenders, certain problems have been identified by the ministries. As a result of this Article, the provision on the allocation of an additional 10% of the points in calls for proposals for projects applying for the area of park communities or for the area of the national park is largely implemented. The 80 % co-financing requirement for projects in recent years, which meant a restrictive period for appropriations from the budget, has at least partially been achieved by applying for projects from various European funds, in particular energy recovery projects, municipal infrastructure, road infrastructure, employment and scholarships. Projects currently being implemented, which also relate to the implementation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Law, totalling around EUR 10 million. The Public Institute of Triglav National Park cooperates closely with local communities, local tourism organisations, regional development agencies and other local institutions in the implementation of various projects with very broad content. In recent years, some €2.5 million has also come into the area in this way, so we are confident that the implementation of the governance plan can achieve positive effects in the area and thus contribute to the development of a sustainable economy of local areas in the Triglav National Park and at the same time to the preservation of nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u278	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since this remainder of the session is still taking place this afternoon in a way that is closer to me, that is to say, as we read, I will follow this, hopefully, new tradition. We just have some park law that's not being implemented. Even if a marriage, like I used to talk a little bit about calf deities on my back, would not be implemented, we should, of course, ask ourselves why this is not being done in the National Assembly. This is also the task and function of the National Assembly, which we often forget. We have something called Triglav National Park, although as a constitutional patriot, he would say that it should be called Triglav National Park, because it is also a park of people who are not Slovenes and Slovenes and are citizens of this country, and the whole story of course has a beard that reaches into this unfortunate ZUJF. We have a public office that's supposed to perform a whole range of functions. I will read only one piece, after the buzzing, the budget of this institution fell to 1.43 million by 2014, less than 2.5 million and 2.45 million euros in 2011. Most of this money, this money, as I say, is actually about wages, material costs and investments in 2014 left only ten thousand, which of course means the life of such a institution, which cannot carry out nature conservation tasks, which is its task, let alone some development of this national park. This is kind of the heart of the problem, and then we have a local community that is supposed to go to self-government, the municipalities, according to the local authorities, to which we impose almost 70% of the legislation that we adopt here – they mostly have budgets that have already been budgeted. In part of the Triglav National Park, they also largely destroy tourism through unwise policies and privatisations, which could generate additional resources, particularly at the Bohinj end, through which, of course, the local community would also contribute more actively to the development of an area with a specific regime. There's actually this problem here. I agree, or in the United Left, that the initial recommendations have been somewhat general, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, after we have reached the committee's conclusion that the Committee's amendment, on the basis of the rules of procedure, is to make better recommendations in some debate, in short, we have amended to refer to specific articles to be implemented. In the United Left, of course, we come from the point of view that the State has to implement some of its own legislation that it adopts, but if that is not possible, then things will be looked at and opened and the reasons why it is not possible are searched and essentially resolved. No matter who and how and how and in what way the governments will or will be constituted. But obviously Slovenia is not yet in this aggregate state, so this recommendation is necessary and, of course, we will support it. In the end, I'm going to abuse the position statement a little bit, and I'm going to be personal myself. For about six years, I woke up, and the first look was on Spike's group. Beautiful, unforgettable, but of course there are other parts of Slovenia at Triglav National Park, we have quite a few landscape parks that we have made, but in practice this good idea does not live, is not implemented or is also left on the shoulders of local self-government, which, I can say, is another proof that we need some serious reform of local self-government in the next decade, including the emergence of landscapes from which then, hopefully, we will also develop and finance landscape parks, not just this park, because Ljubljana is too often simply too far away. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u280	The text is by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u281	Dear Members and Members! Slovenia is a country with a beautiful unspoiled nature, which is appreciated by both residents and tourists. Mostly they're more than we are. Natural activities are the main condition for the development of green and responsible tourism. In addition to the Green Capital of Europe, Slovenia has also received a prestigious designation of a green destination in the past year. As already mentioned, Triglav National Park is one of the oldest parks in Europe and the only national park in Slovenia. The Triglav National Park comprises 84,000 hectares and 33 settlements located in 8 municipalities, while the largest part of the park is in the municipalities of Bovec and Bohinj. The establishment of the protected area shall be determined by means of professional grounds and, in general, by means of a system of protection which restricts or prohibits interventions to the premises in a specific geographical area. In the NSI Group, we have the feeling that the profession, knowingly or unconsciously, is only stressing the protection of the environment, but forgets the people who have been living there, in this environment, ever since. People living in the Triglav National Park over several generations have been accustomed to the constraints that nature brings to them, and yet, on the basis of the adopted Law on the Triglav National Park, they have also promised certain financial incentives precisely because of the limitations that the law has brought. The Financial Incentive Act mentions Article 11. The Mayor of Bohinj Municipality sent a letter to the NSI Group informing us that the provisions of the law providing for certain financial benefits under Article 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park are simply not implemented while all other administrative restrictions are being implemented. Therefore, our Group of Members, together with the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Government, has proposed recommendations for easier implementation and, above all, for more effective implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park, in particular Article 11 of this Law, which provides financial incentives for municipalities and residents. A recommendation has been adopted which requires the Government to provide adequate financial resources, however, in accordance with Article 11 of this Law, so it is most likely that the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will also support this recommendation. If we want the Triglav National Park to develop normally, this means that nature is preserved and that people can live in this park, then these resources are necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u282	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u283	Thank you very much. A nice greeting, again, even on my behalf! Let us all praise together how beautiful and green Slovenia is, and it is true. Nature appears in our country in its most beautiful light. This is what many foreigners, tourists who discover in an ever-increasing number, as they themselves say, a hidden gem in the heart of Europe, attach to us. They are especially impressed by the beauty found in Triglav National Park. All these natural beauty parks need to be cared for. We knew that in 1981, when we first adopted the Law on Triglav National Park, but it was not good enough. For the management of the park, he did not foresee any state resources; he had only restrictions on what could and could not be done in the park. It did not provide for the development of the local environment. In 2010, we corrected this with the new Law on Triglav National Park. In Articles 10 and 11, we have provided permanent and sufficient resources to finance the protection of the National Park and the development of the local community there. That was a key change. The National Park should have been an area since then where nature care should not be a financial problem. The resources provided should also ensure the sustainable development of the local environment and allow for the enjoyment of all the quality of the area. I'm talking about parole. [[Incomprehensible]] The law is not actually implemented. For example, the State did not co-finance the multi-million-dollar investments of the Bohinj Municipality, even though it should have. For the first time this year, the government has even provided funding for the financing of the Triglav National Park in 2018. And how much did she spend on that? Two hundred and twenty thousand euros. This seems unacceptable to us, so, as already pointed out by colleague Alenka, in our parliamentary group, together with the New Slovenia Group, we decided to call on the Government to remove the unacceptable situation in order to finally provide adequate funding for the financing of the park. It must also provide for a stable management of the Public Institute of Triglav National Park. Since 2013, there has been no Director with full powers in this institution. Since 2013, we have a temporary director who has been extended from year to year, and as soon as it appears, until the full mandate. Not to mention the never realized relocation of the headquarters of the institution itself, which is also provided for in the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we have instructed the Government to provide in the budget adequate funds for the proper implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park. It's not enough to just have a gem. This gem must be protected, developed, cared for. Unfortunately, this is not possible without adequate financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u284	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u285	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The Triglav National Park is a Slovenian national pearl, has special status, is the only national park in Slovenia and has a special nature conservation regime, which is stricter than in landscape parks. Such a regime is aimed in particular at preserving animal and plant species, ecosystems, as well as parts of the park, and at preserving cultural heritage and landscape. The unique part of the alpine mountain reflects the long-term coexistence of the inhabitants and nature there for many years. We must ensure that this part of the unspoiled nature is adequately protected in the future, and that we allow sustainable development for the people. In May 2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Management Plan of the Triglav National Park for the period 2016-2025, which sets out long-term and operational objectives, tasks and envisaged activities for the conservation of nature and natural resources, the preservation of cultural heritage and cultural landscape, the preservation of migration and sustainable development, visits and experiences and joint support activities for the effective implementation of all these areas. In addition to this plan, it also sets out as a very important segment the scope of the visit of the National Park, which commits to ensuring an adequate, regulated and maintained infrastructure and a supportive environment. It provides that a network of information points and park infrastructure will be upgraded to achieve the objectives set. Priority will be given to the management of the visit and activities in the field of information, awareness-raising and quality management of visitors will be strengthened. However, in practice, the great burden of protection and development, including with many restrictions, falls on park local communities. With a view to the financial recovery of these local communities, the Triglav National Park Act clearly provides that the projects, investments and activities carried out or provided by park local communities in the national park shall be provided with additional funds from the State budget for co-financing of 80 % of the estimated value of the project or investment or assets. The fact is that this provision has not so far been implemented under any government, and it is time for this to change. With the aim of preserving nature, landscape and cultural heritage, there has been and will also be a complex process in the future management of the Triglav National Park, which requires a consensus of stakeholders at the highest level, and in particular good governance with our only national park requires respect for the values and rules that we have set ourselves in the past. The Law on the Triglav National Park provides very clearly for money to carry out the tasks under this Act, and we will therefore recommend in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that they be provided in the budget, supported and, of course, the final decision on these funds will be taken by adopting each budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u286	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u287	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Triglav National Park is the only national park, and as a result it is all the more important how legislation is implemented. The fact is that the establishment of a protected or protected area constitutes a restriction for the municipalities and people living there. The law in force was adopted in the National Assembly in 2010 by virtually unanimous agreement. The law brought great news and, in addition to nature’s limitations, brought articles that provided further incentives for the development of this protected area, both for a narrower part directly in the park and for park municipalities. Unfortunately, through the discussions in the National Assembly, we find that virtually all nature conservation measures are being implemented, but that the instruments for development initiatives and projects are very rare and are not felt by the communities and people in the park. The Triglav National Park Act is a comprehensive law and specifies exactly how things should be done. It also accurately defines how incentives and co-financing are allocated. From the adoption of the law until 2017, the municipalities received virtually no funds from this title. In the same period, Ljubljana received 87 million from the same state budget under the Special Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, from 2010 to 2017. Why are the congregations within the Triglav National Park not at least equal to the capital city and not getting what is legally theirs? The government says that, due to the financial framework of the institution, the Triglav National Park has been declining but has not been reduced or implemented only the development part of the law, while restrictions and prohibitions have not been reduced. There have always been sufficient resources for all supervisory functions and bureaucracy. In the past, the National Assembly also agreed that the seat of the Public Institute of Triglav National Park should be transferred to the municipality which has the largest population in the park, and this is Bohinj, which has not yet been carried out. The promises that have been in the marriage for seven years have been the key thing that has led to such a large majority of marriages. These development incentives, as defined in Articles 10 and 11, are not yet being implemented or are being implemented to a very small extent and will have to be taken a step further by the Government and the Ministry of Environment and Space. Otherwise, our only national park, our jewel, with which we often like to boast at home and abroad, will be lost in the future. They will also lose municipalities because they are limited in development and lose their population because they are limited to a number of aspects of their business activities. This stepmother's relationship is also evident through the human resources problem, as we still do not have a director with full powers from 2013. The question is, Is it not intended that things should not be done as they should, and as stated in the law? The policy must gather sufficient wisdom to choose, however, from the tenders, someone who is competent and competent to carry out this work. This is also why there is considerable disappointment at the work of the Ministry and the Public Institute of the Triglav National Park, because since the promises made so far in this National Assembly, what needs to be changed, how to improve and implement the law in its entirety, obviously nothing changes. If nothing changes in a very short period of time, problems will only exacerbate and conflicts with the people in the park itself and with local communities will be able to question the existence of a park in the current range, so we support the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide in the budget adequate funds for the implementation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u288	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u289	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin a presentation of the position of the Desus Group with a short jump into the not-so-distant past, at the time of the adoption of the Law on the Triglav National Park. You all probably remember that this was a long time to wait. It was first adopted in 1981, and then the first serious requirements for amending the law appeared from 2003 onwards. With exceptional efforts, cooperation with the mayors, the ministry, NGOs in the field of environmental protection and all stakeholders, the new law was finally adopted in 2010. At the time of the adoption of the law, the Bohinian mayor expressed an opinion that we all agree with today, namely that the law is a compromise that is not written to anyone. A key amendment to the law was brought into force today, with security zones and regimes within them. [[Incomprehensible]] This is the content on which the common language of all interested parties is most difficult to find. The fact is that the establishment of a protected or protected area, such as the National Park, for municipalities and citizens represents several types of restrictions on the residence in such an area. Environmentalists, of course, claim that these restrictions are still too small, while the local population thinks they are too harsh. These restrictions, which are laid down in Article 10 of the Law, are those which are intended to ensure the achievement of the objectives of environmental protection while at the same time promoting sustainable development for the adapted objectives of the Triglav National Park. Due to the limitations that are naturally most felt by municipalities and citizens in the Triglav National Park area, Article 11 provides that additional co-financing resources shall be provided for projects, investments and activities within the Triglav National Park from the State budget. It is expected to be 80 % of the estimated value of the project or investment. This is the part where we meet with two different explanations. One by the Ministry and one by the municipalities. The municipalities located in the Triglav National Park area claim that no funds have been received from this title since the adoption of the law since 2010. On the other hand, the Ministry ensures that in the period from 2010 to 2016, the Triglav National Park was on average paid in the amount of approximately EUR million and a half, in 2017, this year, and is projected to be that much more, or a few hundred thousand more. Given that a rather good number of projects worth €18 million have been carried out in the Triglav National Park area, which have built or upgraded information centres, business and other infrastructure have been built, many activities, such as cleaning and management of the mountains, have apparently been maintained by the Ministry. This does not mean that the congregations are misleading, but more than evidently the municipalities have different criteria than the ministry as to what they are and what they are not state resources. In the area of Triglav National Park, projects are being implemented and co-financed by the State. Probably not as much as the congregations would have wanted. If we look at the projects carried out, the Triglav National Park is mainly co-financed by projects related to nature conservation, rather than projects that would make life easier for the inhabitants of Triglav National Park there and help to preserve the population of the area and which the municipalities would obviously want. In the Desus Group, we believe that the first ten-year management plan adopted by this government in cooperation with SOS and Gorenje regional development agencies will help to improve the financing of development projects. This is a central document covering the actions and tasks of all other ministries, not only environmental ones. The tasks of each ministry and public institution are also defined by the financial part that provides for €89 million for a decade, of which €60 is for sustainable development and preservation of population. The Desus Group will support the proposal for a recommendation, which was slightly modified at the meeting of the parent working body, but with it the National Assembly recommends that the Government provide funds in the budget for the implementation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u290	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First of all, according to tradition, the representative of the proposers, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u291	Thank you very much. It is quite worrying that in the National Assembly we are discussing the need to respect laws. In some ways, we acknowledge from the government to the coalition and the opposition that the government does not respect this law. Not just this one, not the other ones. And the State Secretary's remarks that from this Article 10 and 11 most of the provisions of this and this and in part the provision on co-financing of investments are being implemented Why then do we adopt laws? [[…]] It's not the same as the money for the public office, it's no doubt the government is always providing, it wasn't a dilemma at all. The problem is that the state budget does not return what they are doing to the municipalities. The law explicitly states that they have the right to 80% of co-financing. If they receive 10 points more to sign up for the invitation to tender, this is far from the result of co-financing or money and a hand on the heart, all three mayors who were on the committee have made it clear that this is not the case and that there is little fighting left of those invitations to the municipalities. It was then said that the cooperation of the Public Institute of TNP with local communities was good. We were also able to hear here on the committee that this cooperation is not so good. And as I said in the introductions, it's really sad that we're talking about this, and in some ways we're saying to the government that it has to respect the law, which means it has to provide the money. Colleagues and colleagues, there are very few of us here today at this late hour, but for Gorenjska and for the congregations within the Triglav National Park, this is more than an important topic, especially for people who have somehow made life in this park difficult by law. Once again, it is only right that we take care of and contribute to the only national park, not only to citizens and citizens in municipalities belonging to the Triglav National Park. We've been on the committee for over three hours discussing this issue. There have been several dilemmas on the part of the mayors, and I have, in fact, highlighted at least two other specific problems in the introduction today, one is the seat – why does the seat of the Public Institute of TNP not move in spite of the decision of the National Assembly? And why is the problem of cycling not settled? I don't know how much that would cost. You didn't answer those questions either. The Committee also said that more than ten million should be provided for this area, only in particular what we did not get an answer for. If the Ministry of Education pays teachers in primary schools in municipalities located within the Triglav National Park, you may not consider this co-financing of the Triglav National Park. And there's probably a few other things like that. According to what is said or given the views of the members of the groups, this proposal will also receive support today, and I hope and want the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Government to hear it, it will eventually also see what the National Assembly imposes on it and that this provision is also fully implemented in the law. As far as I know, President, you're a lawyer, you can help me a little bit, you probably have to take full account of the law, not just partly where it suits us, and where it doesn't suit us, but it doesn't. If that is the case, let us also tell people that laws can only be respected where they think they are needed. And if they are in a hurry, they can only drive through the red light — of course they cannot. But the government's response today went roughly this way, so, Secretary of State, I would still like to hear the answers to the questions: What about the cycling routes, why isn't this settled? What about the seat of the public office? Why isn't that settled? What is wrong with the director of this public institution, why do you unlawfully extend his knowledge and finally fail to carry out this procedure as it should be?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u292	First of all, Mrs Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. With regard to co-financing of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, of course, we did not talk about teachers' salaries. These are regulated on a completely different basis. The management plan of the Triglav National Park is foreseen by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for co-financing of school transport from remote and mountain villages, to which this, of course, belongs. At the same time, systemic changes in standards in the area of school and kindergarten networks and the determination of principals are said to reduce standards in combined departments in primary schools within the Triglav National Park. With regard to the appointment of the Director. For the last time, I also told the Committee that the procedure for the selection of the Director is at an end, that the call has been completed, of those applications where candidates have met the conditions, that the final interviews with the candidates will now be held, and that the Director will also be elected as soon as possible. With regard to the seat within the Triglav National Park, I cannot give you an answer at the moment, but the Ministry will endeavour, of course, to arrange the seat in accordance with the decision taken by the National Assembly. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u294	The representative of the proposed magi shall have the floor. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u295	Thank you for your answers, but I think we've been listening to this with the Director of the Public Service, the distinguished Secretary of State for two years. More and more questions have been asked by colleagues and there is always an answer that the call has been completed, that the month should be a year ago, that they should be two years ago. It is irresponsible that within three years of this government's mandate you will not be able to find a director with full powers and full mandate. We can read the reasons in the media, the main thing is that you want to squeeze a man into this place, who obviously – I don't know him and I don't want to do injustice to him, but obviously – he's not capable of it, and you keep repeating and repeating it, and he's been a dutymaker for over two years now, but he can't get attached to the director of the public service. We finance school transports anyway. It's compressed under the Triglav National Park Act and that's some great achievement, I don't think it's the most correct. Yeah, well, it's nice to fund them, because there's really kids that are pretty far from school, but we're talking about investments. We are talking about what the congregations are investing. This law requires the State budget to be reimbursed. You put it all together for 64 million, already on the committee, the mayors kind of held their heads together so that they would be very happy if you actually brought these 64 million euros to Triglav National Park. They are talking about substantially smaller amounts, specifically the Mayor of Bohinj Municipality showed that in the years since the law was in force, they had projects for, I think, 16 million and several million. 80% of this will not raise anyone, including the fiscal rule and the fiscal framework, and everything else will not be questioned. If marriage is to be said as it is, or it is written as it is in the law, then it must be respected. If you don't mean it, you need to propose a change of law. But perhaps the attitude of both local communities and people towards this change will be significantly different, so I appeal again, not to look for reasons why this is not possible, why the congregations do not need it, but to try to find this money, to go across the street to local communities, because ultimately the appearance of this park, which we all admire, depends primarily on them, and let us help them do so. But to help by respecting the law. In my opinion, people who listen to us in the National Assembly talk about the need to respect marriage cannot believe that this can happen. If you adopt the law, it must be respected — us, you, all in this country. That is how it should be, and I hope that this appeal and this recommendation, which I appear to be pleased, we will accept it, signal that it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u296	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u297	Thank you for your word. Good evening! I also welcome this debate on Triglav National Park. I am fortunate to have an office in Kobarid, and we also spoke with Mayor Bovec and Tolmina about this issue. Everyone's complaining about this law somehow. Everyone says that paper, law, carries everything, but real life cannot be framed by this legislation. What's this all about? I think we've become more papal than the pope here again, on the one hand, we want to protect nature and all natural heritage with this park law, and on the other hand, we don't give the possibility that the local population, the population involved in this huge space, could come to life. It is very interesting that we have a tremendous effort to bring water, not just for skis, but also for normal water, for example, in France, Switzerland or Austria. There are huge complexes with utility facilities, and with us all this is one big effort. Another issue, which is always one big question with regard to the public administration, is how much this public institution is actually trying on the market to acquire certain funds or compete on the European market. In the government's explanation, I found that he was carrying out quite a few of these projects, but in fact, I think we need to put all these institutions on the market and they need to behave marketably and not just demand some money from the country. Here we have a set of restrictions, and again we do not allow any possibility of developing these municipalities with one enormous potential that we have in this mountain tourism, but not to mention this – climbing, hiking, cycling, mining and so on. Here we have stopped projects, for example, if we are talking about the Vogel project, there is no way it can spread because it is limited. Canine can't spread because it's legally restricted. Let's not talk about Kobla when all the possibilities of continuing at all are lost, okay, even because of some partial interests. There is no way that this matter can be brought into play, but there are also naturalists who add their part to this story. And then we get stuck again on some condition that is typical of us in Slovenia, it seems in a state where we want to take some steps further, but rather not because, three picks, we don't know why. We constantly have these problems when we don't want to take any steps into the future, but we prefer to limit ourselves and then we stay in one place and we say, yes, the Swiss have it, the Austrians have it, the French have it, and we can't, or we can't pay it, we can't, we don't know. Here I am counting not only on the Ministry, but on the local authorities themselves, to start to think creatively about how this protected area could be under control – not to say that I do not say it under control and some control, it is said that we will not build Istrian houses in the Alps, but that under control – we will allow the construction of certain buildings that can help in the sustainable development of tourism, that we will not say it to some mass because it does not count, it is clear to everyone, but to enable this development. And if we start to look proactively, very broad, we have the opportunity to really get this country on the right track. I think that tourism is in any segment, we can specifically talk about this mountain tourism, natural tourism, that we are not talking about hunting here and everything else that comes along here – we have enormous potential. But no, we prefer to limit ourselves and then step in place and wonder why the others are better, and we can't go on. I think that it is appropriate to think about these proposals and look at one step forward and maybe to finalize legislation, so is concrete legislation on the Triglav National Park, and also to start looking a little wider, a little more market-oriented, that then we really have a vision of how to do things. Not just where he is sitting, not just what the director is going to be like, but that this director with some vision to come and know exactly what he wants. Not to write laws and finance by having a fig in our pocket, but by then also having this public institution and all the others involved, the actual possibility of drawing on these funds. It's a good idea to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u298	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fourteen days ago, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group presented the figures on the state of law in the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia we have little less than a thousand laws and some more than 19 thousand sub-laws. In short, it's that tool that, actually, I don't say, with some bureaucratic node to the soul of citizens, the soul of the economy, the soul of the development of our country. The Law on the Triglav National Park is a very clear and clear example, where we can see from practice, we have a law that is not implemented, is not useful, we have something that is only making it difficult, limiting, and there is virtually no benefit from the law. Indeed, the law is being implemented in the part where prohibitions, repression are being implemented and all that is not allowed and all that is prohibited, but in that part which should give incentives for the development of the local environment, tourism, including business activities in the area, regardless of whether it is protected, the law is not being respected. I must say, I am very surprised to the mayors of these municipalities that they are not actually suing the state. In the law, if I were the mayor, I immediately add up all the investments and all the obstacles that the law imposes and prohibits and, on the other hand, rightly imposes incentives to co-finance these local communities. I'm surprised the mayors aren't suing the state. They have a legal basis in marriage. And then, of course, the question is why doesn't the Director be appointed to put a vision? It's perfectly clear why you can't put yourself in charge. For four years, this office has been without a director. It shall not be placed on purpose because the Director is a responsible person, he shall answer whether or not the law is enforced. Because the Director is a responsible person. And then it wouldn't be possible for such a thing to happen because the director would be aware of responsibility. I hope that those who have applied for this call for a director are aware of the responsibilities of whether or not they will be able to enforce the law. They must be aware of this. And it's actually all set up on purpose. Some over 60 officials, however, prohibit, restrict and so on and hinder development in the local environment. I would also say to such senseless extremes as the mayors have presented. The road to Mangart, the road crash on Mangart must not be repaired with a mangart stone. Then they advised the mayor of Kranjska Gora to mine the top of the hill, not to be in that protection area, but then to be able to build in that part. Are we stupid?Oh, my God! What suggestions we come up with, what limitations we face! With all due respect that this is a limited area of the Triglav National Park, but these are examples from a practice that, I don't know, would, of course, absolutely abolish this law first, write a completely new law and first set up a director and then the director selects 18 anti-birocrats who will consistently implement a new operational and useful law for this local environment. [[…]] For in this way, with such laws as we have, of course, we will not come far and be in harm's way. Such laws are to the detriment. The Triglav National Park Act is a disaster. And I don't want to be assured now that you're protecting one of the roads through repression and that the bike can't even get anywhere near there. Examples in our neighbours, very Alpine or not to say much more Alpine countries, in Austria and Italy. Go, look, take the case. They have legislation there, they have prohibitions, but they have opportunities. Their legislation offers an opportunity to develop, develop tourism and briefly survive those parts of the population that live in those areas. That's not what our legislation offers. It's not an option, it's just repression and bans. In tourism, we could earn at least 200% more in Slovenia than we now deserve if we had acceptable legislation in Slovenia. And I'm not just talking about the Triglav National Park Act. I am talking in general about all the legislation that restricts tourism. Tourism can make a lot of money. And by such legislation in Slovenia, not to say, we are deliberately blocking. Or we are so much that we do not overlook it and that we do not know how to arrange it so that Slovenia can live better and flourish better than tourism. I believe that these recommendations will be adopted. I don't hope much of these recommendations. These promises made by the Secretary of State that the call for a director has already been made and so on – but the director of the law will not be able to comply because the state is not in line because the state itself does not respect the law and is unproductive. Make a new proposal that will benefit the local environment and the country and Triglav National Park. Let's do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u300	The representative of the proposed magi shall have the floor. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u301	I'm not gonna appeal here or say I want this marriage to end. I think it is right that we have it, but it is right that the country is also implementing it, not that this law applies only to people. I will say, in a way, it is even worrying that you are also the people who live there — if you ask them if we put this marriage to a referendum in the congregations to which this law applies, there will be no more. Then what about Triglav National Park? It is therefore our shared responsibility that — yes, restrictions are needed if we are to preserve the Triglav National Park, if we are to preserve nature like this, if we are to preserve the environment, but then give people what they are doing by law. My colleague Ferlug said he wanted a visionary director. That's probably what everyone wants. I would like at least a director now, but not with a vision or without a vision of him in more than two years you are unable to find him, and this is very bad. I wish that we would not be sitting again on the questions sent in six years, and the answer of the Secretary of State or the Minister will be the same: the call is completed and only two more days will the Director be appointed. It's two and a half years in between. If we follow such a course that the state does not do what it has to do, believe that the people and especially the mayors will put themselves on the brink. Comrade Žnidar, yes, the mayors are thinking about the lawsuit, but they're pulling, pulling, because they believe it's better to make a deal with the state than to press charges, which is expensive, it takes a long time. In the end, I believe that the congregations will receive, that is, the fact that the law explicitly states that it belongs to them. It's like we don't know each other. [[…]] I don't know, I just don't know why it's such a problem to provide these few million to the congregations and especially to the people who live there with a full limit, it's hard to live with these limitations, they've kind of accepted them, they're respected because they don't have any other option, because that's the law, but then the law should apply to the country. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u302	Procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u303	President, if I look around the hall, I see that participation in today's session, when it comes to opposition laws again, is rather poor. Since we're proposing this act, you know what that means if you were rude. I could now suggest that, because obviously much of the coalition is not interested in this story, this point that we have proposed is being discussed at one of the future meetings, and since we are proposing this point, you must put it to the vote. This would bring us back, I think, a large majority of the Members are in trouble. I'm not gonna do this today, but I warned you today. The next time coalition Members continue to boycott opposition debates like this, we will have to repeat these exercises, which we have been repeating so far. And I ask you, President, if you can remind the coalition Members that they have a little more respect for the opposition debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u304	I wouldn't be stuck at this point, okay? Gradually, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u305	Mr President, I suggest you do not allow such interventions. It is more than obvious here that there is no objection to opposition laws, for the first time because we do not have the law on the agenda, secondly because I think there is more members of the opposition than the coalition. And if anyone today did not listen to the position statement, it was more than clear that both opposition and coalition parties support the proposal for a recommendation on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u306	I think it's good for us to move on. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor, to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Bojan Podkoršek, and then to the final stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! I would like to make a brief comment on this recommendation. I would say, however, that in 1981 the Law on the Triglav National Park was passed, which established the area of the only national park in Slovenia, which is actually a real Slovenian pearl. The law establishes a special regime that restricts the living population there and prescribes a special nature conservation regime within the Triglav National Park. This regime, of course, limits and prohibits certain interventions into space, which, of course, causes friction of the living population because there are different interests, and this is a problem. In the Triglav National Park in the last period the Municipality of Bohinj and the inhabitants of this area have been intensely pointing out the incoherence of cohabitation in Triglav National Park, including with a view to harmonising Slovenian environmental legislation with European legislation. Many initiatives highlight the difficulty of staying within the Triglav National Park, the indisposition and refusal to protect the area. The municipality of Bohinj points out that it is faced with the provisions of the law which are limited in the performance of legal duties and the inhabitants in everyday life, while also pointing out that the State does not implement the law, in particular Articles 10 and 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park. It also states that in 2010 it continued to implement 60 projects, which were not co-financed by the Republic of Slovenia in the manner prescribed by the law. These were various projects, to quickly list them: maintenance of forest paths, cycling routes, other routes, including around the lake, measures aimed at preserving and developing agriculture and rural areas, regulating municipal infrastructure and so on. It would briefly touch on the Regulation on the Management Plan for the Triglav National Park for the period 2016 to 2025, which was adopted in 2016. This plan ensures the integrity of systemic solutions, means the obligation of all sources to take into account the objectives set in the Triglav National Park Act, namely environmental protection and nature protection and support for local development. Each task under the Triglav National Park Management Plan shall be subject to the necessary activities, operators and participating stakeholders. The implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park is, of course, beyond the framework of the Ministry of Environment and Space and therefore the management plan also sets out the tasks and activities falling within the competence of other ministries. The main problem seen by mayors of areas within the Triglav National Park is that the State does not implement Article 11, which is co-financing projects so that, on the other hand, the obligations of municipalities and citizens within the Triglav National Park are not reduced. Of course that's the problem. The Ministry of Environment and Space said that the municipalities had received certain funds relating to nature conservation and other purposes. Ms Stebernak, State Secretary, also assured today that all the activities necessary to protect the nature and monuments in the Triglav National Park are being carried out and that the Ministry is working to ensure that these things are leaked. We're on the board. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u308	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u309	Thank you very much, President. We are pleased that the coalition also supports the recommendations, as the representative of the largest coalition party said earlier. However, this depends, of course, on the government, not only on the Ministry of Environment and Space, but more on the government than on the whole, because under this law it must also provide funds. I'm sure living in a national park isn't easy. There are a whole bunch of restrictions that people need to be aware of and to respect. On the other hand, the commitments made by the Government or the State by this law are not implemented by the State and the municipalities are subject to strict control of the State and its finances, its budgets. Mayor Bohinja said well that they had already invested 16 million themselves in infrastructure, which should be co-financed by the state up to 80% of the investment, and none of it was. Of course, citizens complain and predict that if this goes on, civil disobedience will be served, and that is probably not what we want. On the other hand, if we have a beautiful national park visited by tourists, the country receives a certain amount of money from tourism, and this is why the country should be able to provide the investment funds that we would agree on together. We are pleased with this support on the committee and probably here in the National Assembly that these recommendations will be made, but I'm afraid with a fig in my pocket. Even if certain funds are provided in the next budget, they will be already six months before the election, if not earlier. We have one craftsman here who said you'd promise to come and you're free. In this sense, this promise can also be because the implementation of the budget is likely to be in balance for 2018, because the money will only be in the time of the next government if there is anything at all. On the other hand, the mayors of the elections have next autumn and it would be necessary if you want something to be adopted as soon as possible, in which rebalancing is possible this year, and to approach certain projects as soon as possible. Otherwise, it's too bad we're talking about this. I hope that when my colleague Zorčič mentioned that this depends on the government, he did not press a fig in his pocket, because according to the time book, the government, I think, will start to promise everything soon – because it will not be necessary to do so, because we will change sooner as it will be. On one occasion, when I was running as an MP, he got us candidates, he wanted to push us out, he wanted us to make some promises about what we're going to do when we're elected. And he went straight ahead, and he said, "You will, will you?" Everyone said, "Yes, yes, yes." He comes to me, but I said, you know what, you can promise because you won't be elected. And so it was. And I didn't promise, and I was elected. I hope the government doesn't hold on to this, so they can promise anything, and then we'll see. I hope you have taken this seriously and that as soon as the recommendations are adopted here, those at the Ministry of Environment and Space and at the Ministry of Infrastructure, because the two ministries are the most concerned, they will also invite the Ministry of Finance and agree on what a scone we will give and when we will give. Not to put into the development programme plan after 2019, as is the custom when we have a set there, I don't know how many billions for projects, such and different. We who were mayors know how to do this, and the government has already learned, as we can see, from the budget and the development agenda plan. For now, let's hope that this time it's different that we don't have to call the boards again for a month or two before the elections, and call all the mayors together because you're going to say yes, that's because of the elections, that's an election campaign, that's now you're forcing. We speak in time, so you have time to organize yourself and do something else under this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u310	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek and then we are going to the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am glad that this evening also ends in a positive atmosphere, just as it did yesterday. It is true that we are only talking about the recommendations presented by colleague Alenka Bratušek and colleague Zvonko Lah. But here is Comrade Zvonko a realist and he has presented key concerns that can lead us to think that these recommendations will only be a dead letter on paper. Ladies and gentlemen, when someone from the Pannonian plains comes to Triglav National Park, you know, it takes this kind of thing to come to some sacred place, the Triglav National Park, it's not just that, it has its own marriage, it has its very good stories, but it also has very bad stories. Because we Prekmurci are holding together, as they say, I will briefly present here a story, that sad story that no Slovenian government can be proud of in the last 25 years. To the story of the most famous Slovenian homeless man. His name is Darko. His name is Kuzmich. For 30 years he was the guardian of a wooden house in a national park near Lake Bohinj, investing all his savings in this house, never owned this house. He never owned this house. The man of the broad heart, who hosted the politicians of the lions and the right political provosts, does not know him today. He's homeless today, his house was demolished, literally thrown in the street with the police. They expected him to become a criminal and that this might put him behind bars, but he remained an honest man, and he remained a benefactor. There was also a very sad story. The only thing that's positive here is how much he told me that the congregation where he lived took him to an apartment, which, as far as he told me, is not even warmed up in the winter, and in the winter he can't live there. The greatest pain is that none of the very well-known politicians – today we will not be talking about names and surnames, even the names and surnames of the very well-known politicians in the current system, especially the government – will talk about it and Darko Kuzmič remains silent about the names and surnames, all from November 2013. He'll probably talk once, I won't talk to him. But what really hurts is that our system, because his house was demolished, his home was demolished, where he lived for 30 years, painted, invested, hosted politics, repeat, hosted politics, eminent Slovenian politics. Now this system, I'm not going to talk about any government, I repeat, this system has made him homeless. And no one knows him, no one wants to help him. You will not believe that in this country it can happen that Darko Kuzmič has been given a decision and a position of €18,000, slightly less, €18,000 for the cost of demolishing this house, that it is supposed to be a black construction. And he wasn't the owner. Can anyone imagine that? And, of course, if you don't pay a bill within a certain period of time, who will come? Here comes Mr. Brass and these rubles. Its assets consist of an old car worth 500 euros and social assistance. You know how she is. These are stories in the Republic of Slovenia in the year 2017. And no one can help him. And no one wants to help him. Everybody beats him up like he's a leper. And that's what happened in Triglav National Park. Someone made it. The system made it for the homeless. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that these recommendations will also prevent this story from ever happening again. But his system ruined his life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u312	[[advertising of the hall]] Not a time-share. I am asking essentially whether we are going to finish this debate or whether we are going to end it at this point. We've got three minutes. [[advertising from the hall]] Then we'll make the conclusion tomorrow, that's the fact. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u313	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for saying so again. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As my colleague said 20 minutes ago, we talked less than 14 days ago about administrative problems in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me repeat this again, because, of course, this information also refers to the point we are talking about. We have bad thousands of laws, and we have bad 19 thousand sub-laws in the Republic of Slovenia. Now that all afternoon we had a debate on this subject, some agreed with the Slovenian Democratic Party that it was an obstacle and many did not. Today, on the proposal of the two proposers, we are talking about a recommendation to implement a law. I repeat, we are talking about the recommendation to implement the Law on Triglav National Park. When we heard the debate on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the three mayors, Mayors of Tolmina, Kranjska Gore and Bohinj, made it clear to all Members and Members where the rabbit has been in trouble with this law for many years. They said a lot of cases that no farmer can handle. Throughout today's debate, we find that the law itself does not apply, that this institution does not have leadership and that it is always a problem whether the headquarters of this institution will be in the largest municipality, where the Triglav National Park is the pearl of this part of Slovenia, or whether it will be in Ljubljana. I don't come from that end, and of course I'm interested in someone else, and I'm wondering why there's no leadership. And they can say they're human resources problems and it's impossible to reconcile who's going to run this office that's hiring, I think, between 50 and 60 people. I will certainly support these recommendations with great joy, but I am, of course, afraid, because of these recommendations there is probably not going to be a lot of hash, say in Styrian. My proposal would be, my colleague Žnidar has already proposed that if the law is not functioning or is not applicable, it should be terminated or prepared, the seat of the company should be located there immediately, as was the proposal, in the largest municipality of Triglav National Park, but of course the director who will be established there and will be in the immediate vicinity of the mayors who run these municipalities. And I firmly believe that if we do this before the call comes, there will be many fewer candidates for this job and there will also be no staffing problems within the coalition. Because when this company is established in the municipality, in the immediate vicinity of the mayors, they will probably have to deposit accounts every day. But when such a institution set up by the State leads to a distance, without any responsibility, the effect is the same as that of all three mayors, and it is the effect that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u314	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative or a representative of the proposer. Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. The representative of the proposed magi shall have the floor. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I think we have said very uniformly to the Government today that we expect it to find money for the implementation of the Triglav National Park Act, and that for that part of the law, where it says very precisely that the local communities belong to 80% of the co-financing funds. To date, in five years, the state has failed to find or secure this money, and it is not hundreds of millions. This is a few million, a little more than 10 million euros for all investments back. I am pleased that the recommendation will be accepted, and I will be even more pleased, and I expect that it will not only be a letter on paper – this is not part of the recommendation, but I call on you, I think we have also been Members and Members of Parliament together to finally solve the problem of the management of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u316	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u317	I also hope that these recommendations will go in this direction so that not only money will have to be provided, but that the government, on the one hand, will jointly agree on what is absolutely necessary for this park to live in a living room, not only will there be restrictions or excessive restrictions, such as we have in some parks which are local in nature, when the owner cannot have his property, as he has for centuries, and that the national park will not be an excuse for such cases of demolition, as the colleague has previously said. There will be no excuse for the rule of law to act only on the poor, on the homeless or on the unemployed, but for the rule of law to work for everyone. We've got a bunch of cases where they've been stalling for years and years, they've been legalized, even though they should have fallen immediately. Let the rule of law work everywhere, so I also drew attention to spatial legislation. In neighbouring Austria they have legislation to remove illegally built buildings if they do not belong in that space, but in certain cases the legislation leaves the local community to decide whether or not to do so. Proportionality has also been brought to the local level in the neighbouring country. With us, if there is proportionality, there is a Constitutional Court, otherwise there is no, all laws must be enforced, even if it is inappropriate, unnecessary, but strictly adheres to and applies only to some, but not to all. It would be good for the state to see to it that order is made in space, order in construction and in general in the possession of property. I hope that, when you sit down with the municipalities, you will also take on this issue a little wider, at all, Madam Secretary of State, who is responsible for these matters at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Not to some former high-ranking officials, politicians look through their fingers, but there over the poor, the benefactors stand up and prove to the state how the rule of law works. This must end once, and since the country has a hand over this national park, put here because you have all the levers to make order and then elsewhere in Slovenia. We've got 300 thousand of these buildings that are built in violation of the rules. It is good that we start to regulate this once for the benefit of all, so that those buildings that are built and will never be demolished and have no sense of being removed, that they can be used, that they can be removed, that they can be removed and that they can be removed for all citizens, not only for those who respect the law. With us in Dolenjska you will probably know what I'm talking about, the buildings are built on foreign land, without documentation, and no one can harm them. This must be the end of the day, and the law must apply to all things, so that I do not say, as once a Member of the National Assembly, that in the end it is decided that the law applies to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-23-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u318	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Nobody. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. No amendments to the updated proposal for a recommendation have been tabled. The vote on the proposal will be held tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item as well as this meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
