ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Violeta Tomić from 10 a.m. to 14 p.m., Iva Dimik, Irena Kotnik, Erika Dekleva from 16 p.m. to 15 p.m., Jelka Godec to 15 p.m., Tanja Cink to 18 p.m., Simona Kustec Lipicer to 13 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Matej T. Vatovec, Miha Kordiš from 16 p.m. to 16 p.m., László Göncz from 16 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on regulating the space within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises, which represents a new roof law in this area. It combines the matter of three large-scale laws: the Spatial Planning Act, which governs municipal spatial planning, the Law on the Placement of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest in Space and the Law on the Regulation of Space, which now regulates spatial measures. Over the past 15 years, it has taught us that a transparent and comprehensive system of space regulation should be established and new mechanisms introduced to allow flexibility in space regulation, adaptation to current conditions and coordination of operations between space regulators should be put in place. The proposal for a new law combines, builds and integrates the content so far, seeking to overcome the sectoral approach to space regulation and to enable more effective coordination of development and protection interests in space. In the area of spatial planning, the draft law also introduces new mechanisms such as location verification, the functioning of the Government's Spatial Development Commission, the process of taking over one public benefit over another in the event of conflicts between different public interests, strategic spatial planning at regional level, the new joint planning and allowing of spatial arrangements of State importance in principle all in one place, spatial planning at sea, the separation of certain content of the existing municipal spatial plans into separate acts, a new decree on regulating the image of the settlement and the landscape that can be adopted by municipalities for other interventions at the premises. In addition to that proposal, the law fully follows the requirements of the Aarhus Convention as it allows for early and effective public participation in the preparation of spatial implementing acts from the time of preparation of the starting points. It also identifies the status of NGOs operating in the public interest in the area of space regulation. In the area of land policy, improvements constitute greater instruments for the management of space, in particular building land. Active management of them is essential, as space is recognised as a limited asset to which the principle of sustainable spatial development and rational use should apply. Although the issue is closely linked to the area of property valuation and taxation, for which the property records are, of course, pre-conditional. The bill thus updates existing spatial measures, enables municipalities to exercise greater pre-purchase rights, lays down rules for the development of construction plots for new buildings, introduces the development rates of building plots and their registration and introduces fees for unused building plots that the municipality may charge. The draft law builds on the current spatial information system as a central data and service support for space regulation, including the electronic spatial planning and licensing service configurations, and commits the country and the municipality to monitoring and analysing the situation in the area through which investment and other initiatives are valued. In the context of the second reading on the parental committee, the proposal for a law was improved and editorially assigned. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the amended links were thus reviewed on the proposal of the Construction Act on the payment of the municipal contribution, followed by the opinion of the municipalities and paid a municipal contribution to the conditions for the issue of the building permit. The system of spatial acts is set out clearly and transparently to reflect the hierarchy, type and purpose of spatial acts divided into strategic and implementing acts. Other findings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly regarding the legal basis for the issue of a comprehensive permit for spatial arrangements of State importance were also withdrawn or clarified, as regards the use of the concept of economic public infrastructure, the conditions for municipal urbanist and others. We believe that, on the basis of the amendments already adopted and further tabled, the bill has been substantially and nominally improved to the extent that it provides an effective, clear and systematic approach to space regulation. Since the amendments tabled at second reading are less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, we propose that a third consideration of the law be held at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body, and I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 33rd meeting, on 3. Ten. 2017 as a working mother, the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. During the course of business, amendments were tabled by Ambassador Branislav Rajić, the Group of Ambassadors, the Group of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, and in the framework of the adoption of the law we also decided on amendments to the Committee's amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has announced the absence of this point, and so has the member of the Levica Group. In its supplementary explanation, Mrs Irena Majcen, on behalf of the Minister for Environment and Space, stressed that the proposal for a law constitutes an integrated recast of an area which is one of the key to the successful sustainable development of Slovenia and whose main characteristics over the last 15 years is also the fragmentation of complete matter into different laws, its sectoralisation through sectoral regulations and the absence of some key mechanisms to achieve appropriate spatial development. In the area of spatial planning, the proposal proposes the legalisation of mechanisms for active coordination of legitimate but often conflicting public interests in an area where the central role of the Government is given to the Commission for Spatial Development and the possibility of carrying out a procedure to predominate public benefit. The draft law enhances the flexibility of implementation spatial planning through the establishment of a local inspection institute as an instrument for facilitating complementary interventions into the space for the individual resettlement of individual derogations from spatial acts and the temporary use of space. A new procedure for planning and allowing spatial arrangements of State importance is introduced in principle all in one place and in one procedure. Emphasis is also given from now on to the absent but key aspect of strategic planning at regional development, and for the first time spatial planning at sea is also regulated. The law also pays attention to the regulation of so-called non-construction interventions in the area by renouncing the decision on settlement and landscape regulation, allowing for better and more early public participation in the preparation of spatial acts and establishing the possibility of judicial protection in respect of accepted spatial implementing acts, and also identifying the status of non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest in the area of space regulation. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that this service, in accordance with its competences, had drawn up a broad opinion on the draft law, made some general comments and comments on it to a large number of individual articles, with a number of comments and opinions taken into account by the applicant, while some concerns remained. The representative of the Council of State stressed that the Council of State supports the proposal for a law and in this regard welcomes the efforts of the proposer, who has listened in the long-term process of seeking legal solutions to the representative associations of municipalities and professional chambers and has taken great account of their proposals and comments. In their views, representatives of representative municipal organisations and professional chambers expressed their general support for the bill and identified it as a step in the right direction towards better regulation of the area and, despite their principled support, pointed out in their discussions some of the solutions they disagreed on and for which they had previously pointed out in their written opinions in most cases. In the debate between Members and Members, the Member of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats expressed the view that the draft law would not solve the many problems we have been facing in the area of space regulation for decades. Members of the MPs of the Modern Centre Party expressed their support for the bill in the debate. Following the discussion, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of Ambassador Rajić, nor did it adopt the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, and adopted proposals for the amendment of the Committee of Coalition Groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u5	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. It will be procedural for me to expect more thorough reports of this kind in the future, because it somehow turns out that we are a colleague from the SDS covering this matter, and I, who is covering it from the Left, are the lufters, who we have somehow said, come on, but we are not going home, which is far from the truth. We have intertwined the treatment of these articles because the coalition literally, or in particular, SMC on Friday slightly after the second hour, swept away one small million amendments, with these laws totalling around 200 pages, and in fact this could not be read seriously within three days of the beginning of the committee meeting. That is why we demanded that the point be postponed, that we read and deal with this subject seriously, because we are dealing with this topic in this National Assembly, people who were, were or were mayors, municipalities, city councilors or were officials – I am sorry that there is no colleague from the SMC who knows from this position – either an architect or a space sociologist. And with all our responsibility to this important matter, we merely wanted to have the proper time and not the derogation of the work of the National Assembly. This was not the result of the report and therefore I had to make a procedural request and say so. I hope that, by the end of this term, they will also report substantively in the sense of saying why someone is obstructing a point or a session, because it is also quite substantive and very clearly explained by Members at the meeting. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u7	Since the Parliament held a general discussion at its 32nd meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. On the committee itself, I have been left alone by those who oppose this law, and I have tried to explain in a similar way as was the position of the parliamentary groups that obstructed the committee's meeting. The problem of space regulation has been lingering for as long as this country is old. All the new countries of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are facing the same problems, it is said to be an unregulated space, a large number of buildings are built in non-compliance with regulations or built in black. Other countries, such as Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia, joined in regulating this, except Slovenia, some 5 years ago. Although I have been in Parliament all the time, I have been alerting this issue, we are being dragged into a space between 4 and 8 years old, the acquisition of a building permit for 5 and 6 years, and this is unacceptable in this time and space. [[…]] In neighbouring countries, for example, Croatia has very successfully legalised half of these facilities, among investors are our citizens, who have real estate in Croatia and are satisfied with regulation. With us, however, we can't do this and investors have huge problems, so those who want to arrange their stay for housing and even bigger problems for investors, an economy where they want to build for the purpose of economic activity and the process is impossible. Just the Akrapovich case, he couldn't get a building permit for six years, and a few others. Not to mention foreign investors, a foreign investor who comes to us wants to get a building permit in one year, start building, a good example is Magna. A bunch of investors who came but didn't come to Slovenia as late as they did, went ahead and offered better jobs than they would be in Magna in the painting room. But you don't know that. What's the situation with us? The investor, when he gets here – I faced it as mayor myself – first asks if you have an environmental permit. If the mayor in the congregation says we don't have, thank you very much, he doesn't ask any more questions because the deadline is one to two years. Just an environmental permit, let alone a building permit! As far as prices are concerned, we accept the OPPN, for example, for one industrial zone of the OPPN, then the municipality does not have the money to build the municipal infrastructure, conclude a municipal equipment contract or earlier adopt a decree, and then conclude a municipal equipment contract to enable investors to build it themselves, gradually, slowly, as far as they build. And look at the fragment, and then the investor comes. What's the municipality selling? The municipality can only charge a municipal contribution to the infrastructure to the industrial zone. In the industrial zone, investors build themselves because the municipality can't because it doesn't have this money, but owners of municipally equipped land are speculators or quasi-investors who charge the price of land that is municipally equipped not like abroad for actual use, fairly, but 20 times higher than the price of the actual use of that land. With the communal equipment of the zone itself and then with the primary municipal contribution to the infrastructure that has been brought to the zone, which the municipality has already built, the price of this land will come to over EUR 100. SPIRIT has done an analysis of the prices in neighbouring countries, mainly for logistics, and these prices, which are municipally equipped with all costs, are between €28 and €35, and on average there are no investors. In logistics, however, because they need large areas, for any production, the price cannot be substantially higher than €40 per square metre of municipally equipped land. These are prices in the region! But why? How do they get abroad to that price? They come by buying land before it changes actual use, at the fair price of actual land use, if there is a forest, is one price, if there is a meadow, is another, if there is a field, is the third, as Dars bought for motorways. Then the congregation itself provides municipal equipment to make it as cheap as possible, and then the congregation sells it to an investor. But they sell speculators to us. See the ownership of land around cities, around Ljubljana, around major cities where they are habitable – who owns it? Various espacies, parts of them, are behind them by certain people who knew what would be there before the actual use was changed, most of them. And that is why we today do not adopt legislation to eliminate this, and because of certain lobbying agents of space regulation, which are quasi-professionals, they are acting smart and delaying procedures for several years. As Magna himself told the government on the committee, everything went according to law, and it was possible to carry out everything within six months. Why don't you go somewhere else? Why four to eight years? And what does this law now change? Is that what we're dealing with? Are we accelerating legalization? In part, in the construction law, in those transitional provisions there is much of this, the only question is how it will then be processed by means of sub-legislative acts, whether administrative units will be able, I don't know, to legalise 300 000 objects in a few years. But as far as that's concerned, we're where we were when we were on our own. We haven't even solved the biggest problems with the ZUREP-2 Act. We didn't. The process itself, on the committee, I have shown procedures, comparisons with neighbouring countries, in neighbouring countries, in Germany, Sweden I will just take a colleague, I have too much to find right away. In Germany, the adoption procedure for the OPN is a maximum of one year, the same in Sweden as in Finland. One year. We've been at Magna's for six months. Then why is it an average of 4-8 years? This procedure, which has already been too long, is further extended by this new law. It's still official. That's what the MOL representative said on the board, who's working on it, but no one wants to hear it. I hope that once again, in a few years, we will probably find out in a different composition what this law has brought. I will tell you in advance, and those who deal with this law, that the most or the only ones with this law are the municipalities and mayors. And what do the mayors say? That he's not good. In old Austria they had a farmer in Parliament who vetoed because the legislation was mainly for farmers. If the professors adopted a law in Parliament that was not good for the farmer or that he did not understand, he was vetoed. But in our case, those who apply the laws do not have the right to vote because officials have drawn up this law. The Law-Legal Service had 38,5 pages of comments on this law. How many articles were amended at the board meeting at the end, when only a little longer should the law be frizzled? Who agrees with this law? What are the views of individual congregations and congregations? He disagrees with this law. Then who is this marriage to? For another country? For other congregations or for people? You must, of course, rule out this law to put it through, even though it was a priority at the beginning of the mandate. Perhaps even the legislator or the tailor wanted to solve certain things – with economic infrastructure, as it was said inside, that in the economic infrastructure itself, the plot that was being sold was probably also meant. And it was an amendment, and it was Desusa to turn economic infrastructure into public, economic public infrastructure. Now tell me what is the difference between economic public infrastructure and municipal infrastructure. Because what's public is communal. And by allowing the possible plot, which is communally equipped, to be designed strictly after the OPPN for some economic use, for the construction of economic facilities, this is what I consider to be an economic infrastructure, these amendments, which Desus represented, have eliminated this possibility. Because it is only public, but what is public is known, what is public is what is municipal or national. That's what they say. The speculators have it all in their hands again. It is not possible that the congregation, except for Kočevje, Yaskawa, because of its former ownership of the land congregation, could sell Yaskawa to Kočevje — at such a price! But it's because it's a congregation. How many municipalities do they own to be equipped with utilities and at a relatively favourable price to the investor? In neighbouring Austria, our experts, university-graduated machine engineers, give them a lot of credit, a job for an indefinite period, and 3,000 euros a month a net salary, and a convenient loan to build a house within six months. What about us? With us, the municipality changes its actual use, the purpose of the agricultural use to the building, then it has nowhere in the budget money for municipal equipment and then owners who are usually farmers or speculators who previously bought to make fine money, selling plots of 80 euro square meters. Look at the price! In Austria the congregation does so, buys, equips, or even builds, buildings, I don’t know how social housing or houses are, and gives them to those at the lowest possible cost. With us we build social housing for 2 000 500, 3,000 euros per square, the most luxurious. It's a mess, and we don't fix anything with this law. You will see what the results of this will be, I am afraid that the legalisation which has been so complicated with the law will be so complicated that it will not be regulated in due course, as is also necessary with regard to the records for the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act. We're doing everything in a direction that's not gonna be taxed. You know why he won't be here? Because those who also have an impact on legislation have such rich properties that they fear that they will have to pay too much tax. There is a tax on property abroad on luxury or on wealth, and we pay the NUSZ to all. Everyone, like photovoltaics, pays for ordinary households, poor people, not those who consume the most electricity, as well as NUSZ. On the other hand, it is said that the property tax will not be higher than the NUSZ, but is a completely different tax. Here the NUSZ pays all those who have building land, and the property tax is to be paid by the rich, so with us, because we are poor, we will not introduce it. It's all in the air somewhere when we're doing everything in the direction of not changing anything. Then how can we do better? Ask SPIRIT, the Ministry of Economy, for each investor we will adopt a special law and threaten people to relax if they do not sell 10 euros, even though the land is in Maribor, said the mayor, 60 euros per square. But this is where the country burned down, if you don't give me 10 more and we'll clear you out. Are we a just country? It's a shame it's not bigger. And you didn't do anything about it, with this law, or with the amendment. You've already changed some expressions, and I have a feeling that this law was written by someone who was from another planet who had never been involved, who was never close to the municipalities, the county, or I don't know anything to really face this problem. An official may have come as an assistant from a fax to the Secretary of State or something like that, and he's making up different rules, not even the previous terms or terms, or he doesn't know who were in this legislation for 20 years – economic public infrastructure, I've already told the board to explain to me what it is. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – the Christian Democrats of this law we cannot confirm in any way, but you are lucky because it is six months before the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u9	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A nice greeting to all present, and a nice greeting to the minister! Otherwise, we are now under Article 44 and the amendment to this Article, which in some ways is also a good point for discussion, because this article and the amendment to this article refer to the provision of expertise and the legality to carry out the tasks of regulating the area under this law imposed on local communities. If you have read the letters you received yesterday and this morning by roof organizations, SOS and ZOS, you will understand why this is a good point. Because they oppose such rigorous interventions in what an urbanist needs to do. I'm saying this because, on the other hand, we have a freeway in the marriage, I'm going to say to the other part that deals with the space that issues the building permit. On administrative units they issue building permits for officials who have an administrative school or a non-professional school which is not necessarily related to space regulation, which we state or impose on local communities. So, administrative units can hire anyone to issue a building permit, there are no regulations, and these officials are making us later in the process, I would say, rights and duties, and, on the other hand, to all local communities, including the smallest ones, we insist that they provide a municipal urbanist who must meet the conditions of an authorised architect or an authorized spatial planner in accordance with the rules governing architecture and engineering. If we are already revamping legislation, both sides should be saved because they are mostly complicated in administrative units. It is said that an official can read spatial legislation, he can read all the regulations, but he is, I don't know, with an education that isn't even close to those two requirements that the municipal urbanist has to meet and, on the other hand, from local communities, which are already so fed up, and we prescribe always new burdens for them, we demand that they hire a construction engineer, an architecture engineer, who is enrolled in some set of authorized architects or engineers. Let me explain, someone who prepares some documents that advises someone must have some very professional and high education, and the one who ultimately issues a permit doesn't have to have some education that comes with this profession. You know, the complications are when the building permit is issued, not necessarily during the stage of the procedure. So I don't know how the local communities are going to accept this in the light of the letters and warnings from the ZOS and the SOS that we received yesterday by e-mail that they don't agree, nor do they see this obligation as necessary. For the task of this urbanist — who has ever been in a local community — will understand that this was written by someone who has never been in the local community or probably not in the municipal council as a saint, and even less likely than that as mayor. It is necessary to take a minister who, by the way, has put all this through, but probably not much has been consulted or read about this law, but has brought this matter because the mandate is expired. Article 3 of this amendment refers to the fact that this urbanist will have the task of providing expert advice to the mayor or the mayor. That's nice to hear, but once the plans and documents are adopted, I don't know what kind of terrible counseling is still needed by the mayor, who has jobs in charge of individual segments in local politics, who has a director who already has other people. But if that's gonna work, he's gonna have to have someone else to work with on this. “Caring for an integrated policy of spatial development of the municipality” is a good thing to hear again, but this is at the stage of the adoption of an UN or a document for which the municipality must seek out the contractor for which it does so, because it cannot do so in its own direction. It's more of a one-time thing, too. “Takes care to coordinate the preparation of spatial acts between the municipality and the manufacturer of the spatial act.” If this is an employed person in the congregation, it is understandable, however, if there is a need to hire someone here, but this is not understandable, because coordination between the one chosen by a caller is to prepare us with a spatial document that must clearly meet all the conditions, and the municipality is usually managed by either the director of the administration or someone in the reference or department dealing with the space. We do not need another special person to be paid from the municipal budget in order to do so, especially in the case of small municipalities that are unlikely to have an employee. And hereafter: “Performs tasks in the process of location verification in accordance with this law.” Whoever doesn't know what a location check is, that's the location information given by the municipality to the citizens who apply, that's a copy from a document called the OPPN or the OPPN. That is why we do not need a world class to be able to write this and which must have engineering knowledge from architecture and construction, and on the other hand, an administrator or an official on an administrative unit that gives me a building permit without any education from this area. I hope you understand that there is some total misunderstanding here, what are the tasks of individual administrative authorities, as well as the responsibilities you impose on the municipalities, which will essentially increase the costs of operation for the municipalities, and nothing has helped to improve spatial legislation in this area. That is why I think that this must be taken into account, even because you have all received letters from local communities, that they absolutely do not support it. The Minister said that in this case it is a transparent and comprehensive system that we are introducing. My friend Zorčič said it was about reducing the fragmentation of this legislation. Look, we had two laws in the old system that regulated this area, the Buildings Act and the Law on Spatial Planning. With this amendment we make an additional law, in addition to the Law on the Regulation of Space and Construction Law we give a third law, the Act on Architecture and Engineering, which was previously incorporated into the Law on the Construction of Buildings. So it is not true what colleague Zorčič said as chairman of the committee that this transparent and comprehensive system reduces the number of laws governing this area. On the contrary, there is even one more marriage. Secondly, Comrade Zorčič, I must also remind you that the next time you explain the debate on the committee, it would be right to tell you why someone is obstructing the session, because otherwise it really looks like Comrade Trček mentioned that we left this meeting because we cannot work. On the contrary, we have warned that in one day such extensive materials cannot be examined, the law itself is quite extensive, on 56 pages, and you brought 73 pages of amendments on the last day before the treatment on the working body. And what is even more important in the case of the adoption of this legislation, which we are currently dealing with, is that every amendment to one law also affects the remaining two laws and that cross-amendment is very difficult, and as a responsible Member I do not afford to do literally stupid things, because it is difficult to first process all these amendments in one day and then to follow up on the debate where the matter is being supplemented and exchanged. In order to avoid what was already in the past, when a law later received many opponents in implementation, it was sometimes necessary to stand still or have had to be decided not to be implemented, and in that case was repeatedly thrown away by some, I would say, responsibility also to the opposition, “you were there, but why you did not amend but would have been a better law.” This is precisely why we announced non-cooperation or obstruction in the second reading, because we do not want anyone to say that we had the opportunity to fix the law, because the law, the law and the law, also told you, is impossible to keep consistent in the framework and will probably be rummaging at some of the courts in the next stage. There was also a major problem with these laws that there was no public presentation of opinions at the final stage. It is true that they have been in the past, but given that this is so important and that it touches each of us, it was expected that this would be on the benches of the National Assembly a little earlier and that we would be able to get to know and comment properly and thus improve the law. What's happening now is kind of a farce. Whoever saw the committee meeting found that the ministry didn't even know what that meant in a certain article. The answers made this clear. And for the third reading, we have a re-amendment, which has a lot of comments from the local communities that are most concerned. In the opening speech, you spoke a lot about the regional development plans that will have to be adopted, from strategic to others. Look, this case is a dead letter on paper. As long as we don't have the provinces until we have the regions, that's bullshit talk. We don't even have plans at the state level. All the obligations that this law has now imposed go to the trenches of local communities, all the obligations you have made with this law to the mayors and local communities, who will have much more work to do. The second major problem you have made with these laws, if they do, is that you have not solved the black constructions, because all procedures will stand on administrative units because the procedure you have foreseen is once again complicated and bureaucraticly carried out so that in my opinion it will remain in 95% of the cases due to the disagreements that will be envisaged through the procedure you have. The big problem is that all the time on the Infrastructure Committee, "okay, when the laws come, but we also necessarily need to be prepared in at least some draft version to see what will happen to the regulations, what will happen to the sub-laws," which unfortunately we do not have, we have three very extensive laws that cross-amend, who reads it, simply does not know how the procedures will really run. And if we know the logic and functioning of the administrative authorities, where the matter stops, if there is no clear next step, no one will make any further decisions based on a healthy farm, this will mean that at least in certain procedures matters will only accumulate but not accelerate. On the other hand, because of these laws adopted, municipalities will have a significantly higher burden, as you have burdened only local communities with individual staff obligations under certain new documents and, on the other hand, administrative units and the Ministry have no additional obligations. We will clearly reject this law in the third reading, as we have also pointed out in the Committee's consideration, in view of all the opinions that we have had available to read, it is not possible to draw up a law by means of such a handball amendment, which will be able to speed up the placement procedures in the room operationally, the issuance of building permits and, last but not least, the removal of all these black buildings that we have in the room. I hope you'll reconsider before we confirm these laws. It is true that you care very little because the implementation of these laws, which you will adopt if you do, will be carried out by another government, some other officials, and then the problem will arise, as in many cases, when there were virtually no policies on the table, but you obviously do not want to understand it and it will happen as with chimneys elsewhere, when you end up with users or those who perform certain services, clearly say that the matter is unconstant and in practice only causes problems. In this case, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u11	First, to avoid repetition or procedural or any other matter, the report covers 91 pages, these things which are procedurally or substantively explained, are in the report itself, but the summary is – you have all said your own, and that is it. That's what I have to say. We're not gonna hunt this thing. There's obviously still an interest in the debate, so please apply. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we expected a lot from this new law, the law on space regulation. Our disappointment is immeasurable. Infinitely, and therefore logically, we will not support this law. Our colleague Zvonko Lah is on the committee, and he has said only a few things here in plenary today that we disagree with, he said that this law will not and will not be feasible. This law will not be enforceable, you will not be able to implement it. And if Parliament adopts non-executive laws, it grieves such a country. It's worse than that. The stakeholders who should be involved in the drafting of this law – too bad, Madam Minister, that you did not invite your colleague Laha, with the mayoral and various other experiences, would be very helpful to you, including Dr. Trčko and others, Daniel and others who were sometimes mayors and know and certainly support me in my statement that this law will not be feasible. We have comments from the municipalities, we have comments from the community of municipalities, I regret that the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia sent its comments too late yesterday, because they simply cannot be included in the form of amendments, but it is such important matter, it is a resource, it is a value called space. This place is restricted. Closely connected to space, management and space management, of course, is the time. He has already pointed out this to his colleague Zvonko Lah, how other countries, advanced countries, advanced economies, if you want, regulate the space for people's interest, for business interests. We have made a very precise comparison with the countries to which we often like to compare ourselves, as has already been said, in Germany, the whole process of preparing and adopting the basic municipal plan takes one year, also in Sweden, not to say that I always turn to Germany because there is a ruling Christian democracy. I am therefore referring to Sweden as well as the whole process for one year. And Finland, the whole process for one year. With us, from experience, from 4 to 8 years old. And this law now prolongs this procedure. We have precisely developed phases, all stages – you can't see them now, nor can the camera see them – which the congregation must perform and, of course, other stakeholders in adopting the municipal spatial plan under this new legislation, following this new law on space regulation. I don't have time to count all these stages, and the fact is, 23 phases if I add new ones, and if each one lasts 2 months and a half, we're 5 years old. And that's pretty optimistic, because the OPN is accepted from 5 or 4 to 8 years. 5 years is 60 months, if you divide it by 23 stages, you get 2.5 months, which is understandable, under terms understandable, for some stage. This space regulation law will therefore extend the adoption of the municipal spatial plan. It'll take a while. And we want to be a competitive country? Time, however, is an extremely important resource today. It's extremely important. Here comes an investor, has a business idea, has a business plan, has developed new products and has a market and wants to start tomorrow, literally starting tomorrow in some new production hall. The builders are capable of doing it today. We heard yesterday, in 12 months, the Magna factory. There's no problem in construction. Look, 12 months of building a mega factory, specifically Magna, and we're here from 4 to 8 years of translation. Normally, every investor, both Slovenian and foreign, will go by and invest elsewhere and will work there and pay taxes there, not in our budget. I'm extremely disappointed. Excruciatingly disappointed. If the goal of this coalition is to just make another hook and plus one to increase the number of laws passed, then be happy with that. We are disappointed and will strongly oppose such regulation as is defined in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u13	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. This amendment would first touch the text of the article itself. It is actually a guaranteed cooperation. We know that we have 212 municipalities in Slovenia, that there are a number of municipalities with five or less thousand people, and of course that the municipality will not employ such a municipality, we are well aware. We are also aware of the problems of these municipalities when they adopt municipal spatial plans and are usually engaged in this business by the contractors of the municipal spatial plan. In our view, this is not good, not acceptable, neither for the congregation nor for its inhabitants. This means that the Joint Municipal Administrations, which are still necessary for such municipalities in the future, if they are used in ptujska, in fact, the Municipality of Ptuj and its neighboring congregation are still needed. And, of course, such a municipal urbanist can cover a large number of municipalities and this professional advice to the mayor, it is not meant that if the mayor does not need it to be imposed on him, and that many mayors would want someone to give him appropriate and well-intentioned advice when carrying out not only the adoption of municipal spatial plans, but also the monitoring of municipal detailed spatial plans. The fact is that we have coordinated the law with all stakeholders, and in particular with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, for 2 years, perhaps another month. I have also participated in these coordinations several times myself. Why this has come as an objection to the adoption itself in other readings, I find it difficult to appreciate. Politically, I will not assess, but professionally, if we have been coordinated in this content over the course of 2 years, then I believe that after 2 years and some other coordination of professional dilemmas, they can be political and I do not have any problems. In the field check, however, I would like to say that this is not the location information we know today and, of course, is being issued by officials in the congregation. This location check is going in the direction or the possibility of changing some temporary use, which is recorded in the municipal spatial plan, or it is a minor deviation. In other words, in our congregation we had a joint commission with representatives of the administrative unit, where we approved such minor derogations, because of the fact that this part of the commission is not possible to be established everywhere in the process, especially where these administrative units are so large that they include a large number of municipalities, such smaller things could be carried out by the municipality's urbanist and I think this is absolutely necessary and necessary. So this amendment or this content has been harmonised, it has been processed, and I am confident that those municipalities that will particularly want to attract investors and correct such minor derogations will be able to do so in further procedures. If I speak of the indications themselves, I would still like to say that there is no rule for obtaining a building permit for six years. The rule for administrative units for obtaining a building permit is within one year, and this also shows statistics, it is true that statistics show that even when the application for a building permit is complete, the time for issuing a construction permit is two months or less. The general procedure for assessing spatial plans for eight years is again, I would say, when it comes to the first adoption of a municipal spatial plan in a municipality. We know that the existing acts, where the UNJO has not yet been adopted, were adopted somewhere by 1980 and are in the category of how they are prepared, what was then taken into account, in many ways very different from the newly adopted UNO. And I agree, yes, when it comes to the adoption of the new municipal spatial plan of the congregation, there is a lot to be done, but it is unusual that two-thirds of the congregations have already done this task and a third of the municipalities have not, and we even have a municipality that has not yet taken a decision on the preparation of the municipal spatial plan. This also suggests that, of course, some of you will not be pleased to say that the mayors' interests, the mayors run the municipalities, are different. If we are talking about an investor coming in and asking the OVD from the municipality, there is something wrong with the investor, so environmental permits are not obtained by the municipality, they are obtained by the investor, and now we are in a position to combine the process of issuing the building permit and obtaining the OVD, so we meant to improve these things. I would look back at this communal infrastructure and public economic infrastructure, I think that the committee itself has been told, I do not see the difference between these two terms, but the proper expression has been introduced on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and I would no longer discuss it. I just want to say that when it comes to the difference between these two terms or what these two terms mean in implementation, they mean the same thing, and we have taken into account the comments or proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service and used this term. As regards decommissioning, of course, the relevant spatial plans of the municipality for the exercise of public interest, i.e. when it comes to public interest, make it possible to decommission. Since there has also been quite a lot of talk about administrative units, I would say that all obligations have not only been given to local communities, I hope to say that local communities have such obligations as they have so far, if they want or are confident that, of course, these regional spatial or larger, wider spatial acts will also be acceptable. Administrative units have new obligations and new jobs are foreseen, and the Ministry also has new obligations. If we take another practical example, it is true that the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica changed the OPN for an investment, which the foundation stone was placed yesterday, within six months, the municipality engaged and was followed by all carriers of space management. However, since this change did not involve a change to the expansion or the development of an already-economyer in this congregation, the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica immediately made another change to this change in the municipal plan, it was processed in less than half a year. This means that if the municipality has an interest, many procedures can be speeded up by the municipal spatial plans. I propose that this amendment to Article 44 be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u15	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, very nice greeting! Here I ask, President, for a little understanding, although we have very clear procedural rules concerning treatments, but I should also be allowed to comment primarily on honourable members of the opposition species, because, despite the fact that we have a point in the law on the regulation of space, there has been a lot to say and I think it is right that I am allowed to comment a little, but there will be absolute difficulty in going on with the amendment to this Article 44. Firstly, I am very clear in my opening remarks that I fully support the proposal for a law on space regulation. In view of the fact that some Members have debated before me, I will still comment briefly, especially because I believe that in their debate the content which is misleading and puts up a position, if I speak, even the offices in some situation, even when we are talking here, and there is an impression in the public debate that officialism is simply a need or work very badly, do not respect laws and so on. Here I have to take a firm stand on the side of the Office, especially those who work on administrative units, because we know that it is in the exclusive competence of administrative units to issue building permits, especially in those procedures where projects are not of national importance. Here I am touching a debater who clearly did not look in depth at the fact that we have two types of so-called building permits. In administrative units, it is for the production of construction permits for employees, if I speak very gravely, about 100 officials, and I must admit, with the exception of rare exceptions, as far as I have had the opportunity to face them, they are professional. This expertise is neither assessed by the policy nor by the members of this National Assembly, but is decided by the authorities, namely, the second-degree authority issuing specific decisions and, in the end, by the Administrative Court. Those who get to know each other a little bit more on the substantive side, I think they need to be aware and not tell the public that officials are not professional. We are also convinced of this by a very small number of decisions of the Administrative Court, which in one way or another reject or deny decisions of the first stage. The fact is that the office regarding the law on the regulation of premises, and in general the administrative units, has virtually nothing and that is why I had to stand firm in their defence. The second thing is the construction law, but that's not the point of this agenda. What really stabs is they say they're not professional. You know, because in the final stage, what expertise do we have in individual places, which are the leading positions in the system of the narrower or wider public sector, where, as a rule, whatever government is in power, it places party individuals in one way or another? And then let's stop blinding ourselves, and, in fact, here in the National Assembly, we mislead the public that there's a certain part of the government, that the office isn't professional. Next thing. As far as this space regulation law is concerned, I have not heard anyone before, for three years this law has been good in an open procedure with all possible activities, and in any case it has been given the opportunity to be defined by the law on the regulation of premises. You know, the call of individual Members, especially the opposition, that they do not have the opportunity to examine this mass of materials, is a political rhetoric that we know on other committees. There's nothing new about the number of amendments. We know that in all other areas, when it comes to some stage of the legislative process, the legislative and legal service takes certain positions and it is perfectly logical that this should be followed, to the greatest extent possible also by expertise, non-political, and that amendments eliminate some inconsistencies, perhaps even some things in the awkwardness of professional judgment and so on. However, what I must admit and regret that there is no honourable Member present who has declared that disappointment is immeasurable with regard to this law on the regulation of premises, I think that you are a respected Member in terms of the content of such a statement, as a rule, should not be allowed at all. I understand that a specific subject of law can be unacceptable to any party or political party, but in such statements as Members, we must then always take a stand, or follow some of the political direction, then the Group of Members or follow some kind of profession. I am confident that whether this executive branch of power or the respected minister who is now in this place or any government, the executive branch of government is also following the profession. And here is the question now when we are talking in the political National Assembly, or whether politics should literally walk professionally with rhetoric. So much for the intro. However, I am obliged to make the following comment to the honourable opposition Members. On the parental committee — one who can, if not yet, look at the magnetogram of this committee — was literally a large number invited. Almost the same number as the members of the home committee was invited. It follows that some opposition Members have left the home committee for a totally understandable and legitimate reason, so that this law on the regulation of the premises and the other two have been dealt with in an unusual way to invite more than the members of the home committee. Whether this is right or wrong, I leave it to the individual parliamentary groups to think about and to make decisions. But what comes very clearly from the magnetogram is that the profession, despite the concerns of the opposition Members, is very fond of the content of the law on the regulation of the law. So far there has been nothing to be heard from in the debate, so I thank you, President, for allowing me to speak a little bit more in this direction. The representative of the State Council made it very clear that they fully support not only this law, but a complex package, the troika. But who makes up the State Council? Most likely representatives of municipalities, civil initiatives, various civil institutions and so on. And I have no doubt about their message. What is very important about this is that, if we look at one of the invited ones, he was present and he was very fond of it in his presentation, some even greatly praised it, even more than the coalition MPs, about the content of the individual law itself. And now we are in the profession and politics, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, representative, then the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, the Chamber of Architecture and Space, then the Municipality of Ljubljana, which also presented the Association of Municipal Municipalities, then the representative of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, then the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, the Department of Landscape Professionals, the Association of Landscape Architects of Slovenia, will not continue to mention, the magnetogram is clear. And here is this political rhetoric regarding the space regulation law reflecting the position of individual parliamentary groups, which in some respects have no interest in making a significant shift in the area of space regulation. I conclude in this part, but I still have to touch on why this law on space regulation is needed. In particular, because this law on the regulation of premises replaces three laws. I'm not going to make them concrete, but I would still like to touch one thing that comes out of the profession. The profession says that there is still a need to make a move in this area – but I am in the law on space regulation. The profession says that there are good solutions in this law on space regulation, and interestingly, what they put first – regional planning is first. Why? Because it is an intermediate article between national and municipal planning. And these honourable Members, who are fully opposed to this law, I wonder where a number of years of politics have been in this area, because we do not have provinces, but the regulation of space, and even then, when we touch on the construction law, that is an intermediate point that should have simply been years ago. The next, which is very much in favour of positions, is the reintroduction of the so-called construction site. I will not go into this, for those Members who have a little knowledge of this know very well what this means. Not to mention yet, one would say, on two key issues concerning this law, one of the very important things is that this law will literally appoint or set up a government commission for spatial control, given that we know how many shifts, how many unacceptable interventions into space take place for a decade, and the other that the so-called Spatial Space Council is practically established. At this point, I would still conclude and ask Members of Parliament who are so opposed to this law by political rhetoric. However, these are matters that, when I intervene in space or if I am specific, the municipal detailed spatial plan or the OPPN – I am aware that the speakers in front of me know him very well, and in particular the mayors who have had a lot of problems in the past years, but are now so negative about the amendment of this law. When I am on the municipal spatial plan, let us then re-establish what I am very much in favour of, the Minister's position that it is necessary and time for this matter to be settled. What did the Court of Auditors audit find with regard to the OPNs? From the nice number of municipalities we have in the Republic of Slovenia, there is an indisputable conclusion that only 149 municipalities have a spatial plan. Is it not also disturbing for this national assembly that only so few congregations have joined and settled the foundation? And then we talk about the so-called Magn project or the Magn law and so on, but no one points out when Members are already specific in their political performances, in the case of Akrapovič, why he really seems to be a valuable entrepreneur in the Republic of Slovenia after many years when he was unable to reach the so-called building permit, the basis was just the irregularity of the spatial affairs in the local community, he had to practically move his investment development completely to the other end. I mean, this political rhetoric is increasingly avoiding the interests of various parliamentary groups in particular. If the OPN is not adopted, no one wonders what the problem is, the municipalities are likely to function normally, and the problem is if the mayors who want to be as focused as much as they want to be, and the land which is wally and thus spatially regulated as to destination should be obtained. Here is the uniformity of the display – I must admit that I had to take a firm and clear position that after three years we need a law on space regulation. If I finally touch the amendment of Article 44. All that the Minister has explained in full, I support, is justifiable, because the fact is that even at municipal levels, at least as far as space regulation is concerned, we need to have more hearing for the profession, so that we do not just talk about whether officials are doing well or not in the issue of building permits. You know, one of the key issues of the government regarding the issue of a building permit is that if someone does, they must follow the principle of legality in a consistent manner. When issuing a building permit decision, the official shall take into account all legal and sub-legislative provisions. If that is not the case, then he is in no position to be ungrateful in the role between the mayor's arraignment, the investor, the designer, the architect, and all those, including the side party, who insist that this matter be issued. But this official is not omnipotent. In individual cases, it is possible to read or understand a provision other than that of a designer, and if so, we have appeal procedures to do so. And as I mentioned in the introduction, there are very few complaints filed on the board of directors. As far as this article is concerned, I would just like to add, at the same time, to the Minister, that the municipality's urbanist must be given every opportunity, even if the individual municipality cannot organise, for various reasons, especially financial reasons, that it goes into a form of inter-community. What I have pointed out in my own debate on the parental committee is that I also think that in this case we should follow not only, let's say, the average in the number of municipalities, but also in the city. Not to defend their approach, but also in Slovenia we must be aware that in regulating space and building in very narrow settlements we need to follow the example of how this matter is also handled by European capitals. All European capitals, which we are often following, have a special institution in this area called a city architect, and their practice is that there is still something necessary, as it is also in relation to the legislation and also the regulations that are being adopted, but we are all aware that it can never be regulated in a way that is not so-called legal voids. And it is through these institutes or, say, the municipal urbanist in the process of preparing spatial acts or, as I mentioned below, the European capitals, the city architect, with some powers, that the possibility of getting rid of – at least those which are in any way related to construction usually use the name so-called – starches. To remedy this, you cannot so far at the level of the authorities of the state administration, say so-called administrative units, not the departmental ministry or through local communities from the mayor and the city council, these powers have been verified, and in future or perhaps by some sub-law, to allow for an option, because I think we all have a vested interest here in regulating the space, even in urban settlements, to do a significantly greater part. However, I agree with all the debaters that in this area, the speed of the process, consent and the like, is to make a significant move, since the importance of the investor, whether domestic or foreign, is to be ignored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u17	It's a replica. Replica, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Verbich, I think we got the wrong idea. I was talking about expertise at the level of administrative units in the context of this amendment to Article 44, where we prescribe certain obligations for urbanist at the local level, and on the other hand we have an administrative authority, an administrative unit that issues building permits. You have said well that they are professional there – yes, in terms of the implementation of the Soup definitely, they have all the basis and they do not have in terms of the construction profession. And now you say that they only decide on the basis of legal matter – yes, but they also decide on the basis of sub-laws and certain regulations that take place under construction legislation. I will only mention the changes that have been in the last period, such as the Eurocode, which has prescribed certain static repairs on objects due to earthquakes, and the PURES, which discusses what buildings must look like in terms of savings and so on. How will an administrative authority in such cases, given that it is not an expert, really deal with a role correctly? I say this purely out of practice, because similar cases have happened. That is why I have made this parallel that the ministry on the one hand prescribes a very high level of officials who have to manage certain tasks, on the other hand, in administrative units is an administrative worker who does not need some knowledge, but should have them, because in the case of the issue of a building permit it is not only a rule of law within the meaning of the administrative procedure, but it is also the other things that come. And that's where most of the problems come from, not just by putting people in space and urbanism as such, but also from that area, they're not educated, most of the time they're not from this profession. That's what I wanted to point out. You said that regional planning was written, I know that, unfortunately, I've been in the National Assembly for a long time, and also in the past as an official at the local level, because there's a lot of legislation, but in practice it won't work, that's the problem. And it is a shame to write one thing and the dynamics of how the municipal spatial plan will have to follow the guidelines, and on the other hand we will not have regional spatial strategic documents. In this case, what will the municipal spatial plan refer to? Nothing, air. We don't have the state spatial plans either, we have the old guidelines we get, and so on. So it's not a problem about what's written down, we kind of accept it, but we know that in practice it doesn't work, and we're talking about that this marriage is badly written and it's not going to work and that it's therefore without the need to accept it. You found out for yourself that two thirds of the congregations have [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'll finish. Two-thirds of the municipalities have adopted the OPN, it is said that the legislation works in some way, and that in some ways is not a problem, it is always a problem in implementation. Once again, we have the problem of knowing, given the experience of the past, that this matter will not work in practice because of procedures that are not specified.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u19	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u20	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! I'm going to use Mr Verbic's words at the beginning, which he said was a building troika, which is what these three laws call a major shift. So far, I absolutely agree with my colleague, and I will say that they represent a significant shift in the extension of procedures and in the increase of administrative matters, and I will justify this further. First the fragmentation, if we make three of these laws, we didn't shorten the matter, but we extended it, that's what we're basically going to break down from two laws to three laws. Then, further to the establishment of new services, new institutes and so on, this means an extension and an increase in procedures. I will be specific, there is a new institute of regional spatial plan, very nice, it sounds good, we have no regions, we have some statistical areas in the Republic of Slovenia, we do not even know how to define the hierarchy of the OPPN municipal project and the OPPN project, where the Administrative Court must be involved. In fact, this legislation also does not demarcate compliance with the spatial implementing conditions of the UNSC, which must be in conformity with which it does not. We don't know how to do this anymore, but we are introducing a new regional spatial institute here, so don't tell me we're going to shorten procedures now, because we have another level of spatial regulation. I say that this would be very welcome, and it is a shame that we did not introduce the regions when Minister Žagar tried to do so. That's too bad. If we had introduced the regions at that time, we should have a regional spatial act today and be very welcome and very rational for the Republic of Slovenia. That's one thing. Then, in the field of the ministry, the new establishment of the Spatial Council at the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is said to be the establishment of a new world or another institution, not to say that the newly established institution will shorten the process. Is she going to have a job or not? In my opinion, if you set it up, it would be said that once again one element of the extension of the procedure. And then there are additional tasks at the Ministry concerning the State Spatial Order. Haven't we managed this before, or are we? I don't think so if it's a new thing. This is said to be again one additional instance to take care of the state order, the spatial order. These are concrete additional procedures that have not actually been implemented so far, and then do not say that this building legislation shortens the procedures. To return to these findings, to the opposition's participation in the adoption of these amendments and so on. The amendments are about 250 pages, not that they came in one stroke or in one review, four rounds of supplements were. Yesterday, for all three laws of the circus, 25 pages. The 25-page circus last night. This is said to be more amendments than the law itself, but earlier the President of the National Assembly had taught us that 93 pages had reported that there would be no proceedings and that there would be no dilemma. This is a clear signal of what was the procedure, what was the preparation of the amendment of this building law — criminally bad if the amendments are three times as many as the law itself. Criminally weak! We have warned about this and I believe that when it was said, it was commendable that there were twice as many shareholders on the Infrastructure Committee as there were Members there. Of course, two types of guests were there. The main ones were those who were dissatisfied with the adoption of this legislation, which was the main one. The other part, however, was those who sought their kindergarten for their profession in all this legislation, whether it was a landscaper or a spatial part or so. They were looking for, I'd say, that last chance to come to the meeting and expose one part of the engineering profession to where it's going to be in the marriage and how that resort will be limited so that no other construction engineer would go into his nursery. These were the two types of invitees who dominated the session. So much for that. Then it is very interesting this matter, where it says, to identify the financial consequences of the bill. It is well said here that the law under consideration has negative financial implications of over EUR 40 000. Is that 41,000 euros, or is that 400,000 euros, or is that 4 million? That's over 40,000 euros, but I believe you can't exactly calculate it, and the record is also appropriate. You can't exactly calculate it! You know who's going to be able to calculate it exactly? 210 municipalities in Slovenia, which are most hit by this legislation. The municipalities are the ones. I don't know, I think he's also the president of the National Assembly that this is one question that will have to be solved, what's the point in writing the financial consequences of the law in the first place. How will you treat the congregations, or will you take this proposal into account in the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, which places a financial burden on the congregations? Is this taken into account in the financing of municipalities and will you further provide these funds? What does this dictatorship have to do with anything? What does it even mean to write in marriage? If it just goes down, yes, it has financial implications, we'll burden the congregations. This needs to be made clear. Look at these loads, the municipal urbanist, then inspection services, certain regulations, changes and so on. I think that this is an additional one, a particular debate, which is what the bills state, whether it is just a finding that it has financial implications, but it does not matter for whom, but it does not matter who it burdens. And I think it's essential that the law imposes a financial burden. That's essential! If we read all of this, the answer is clear, we are financially burdening the municipalities, that is a fact, and that is a good fact, as well as the ministry, which will set up additional institutes and additional five services in this area, as well as the ministry. But well, the ministry is so an integral part of the state budget, of course there are also municipalities, but the municipalities of these additional funds that you are burdening here will not see. Will you find out in detail which congregation is additionally burdened, and for what additional burden will this law impose on the congregations? Brief comments – as you saw from the stakeholders. Previously, there were how many satisfied stakeholders, but this satisfaction View these comments from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, including the Faculty of Construction, non-conformity, but well, then in engineering activities among the professions themselves, it is not coordinated and so on. [[…]] The law, the whole trinity is extremely bad, so I cannot support such a law when I know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u21	Replica, mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Only to a short-respected colleague of the Genniar. As far as satisfaction is concerned, in this case I am talking about the law on space regulation, I come from the content of the parental committee, on which were the representatives I mentioned earlier, and it is very detailed also from the magnetogram that was presented by the profession. I come only from this and I do not come from the abundance of all possible stages before this matter came to the parental committee, because it was crucial for me on this parental committee to get their message, whether they are inclined or positive about this proposal for space regulation. And undisputedly, the magnetogram shows that these present did not advocate politics, but advocated professions. I also did not comment that there were twice as many of them, but my comment was that more were invited than the members of the committee. What has also been said about regional planning is that, to the extent that I understand and assess the expertise with regard to the need for regional planning, it is extremely clear from them that this regional planning is, in fact, the weakness of the decade in the Slovenian space and that it is a truly missing article, which is also what a respected colleague from New Slovenia said because there are no landscapes, and the fact is that the system must work in the area of space regulation. That is why I also see very positive by the profession to welcome the proposal or initiative given in this law that this matter is now being settled in the way that it is a link between state and municipal, if I may say so. Finally, given that there was a comment on the so-called fragmentation, I must admit that I am surprised, because the law on the regulation of the space is just merging, because the law on the regulation of the space is now as a roof act replacing the three applicable laws, namely the Spatial Planning Act, the Space Regulation Act and the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space. That's how I understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u23	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's been a pleasure listening to everything together, and I agree with a lot of people, but since I'm still a bit of a professor, I'm going to start a little teaching because we have great young guys on the balcony. Is there a lady among them? I'm sorry if I haven't noticed her, at least Mrs. Comrade probably. Look why. We probably all know, and we forget that we're beings living in space, time. All the time. There are only two aggregate states when we're not in this. Three. When we are hit by pain, when we are hit by what substance and when we are at the peak of orgasm. Pika. It's not gonna be sex education, but it's a fact. Cant would say space and time are apriorous categories of spirit. We can't live, we can't think outside of space and time. In this context, it is scandalous that a quarter of a century in this byte is forgotten. In this context, it is scandalous that this resort was somehow, when it was chosen, and the type for the resorts, the resort to which the heavyweights did not want to go. Now I will not mention any gentleman from Desus who was originally envisaged, but he did not want to, Karl Erjavec was the only heavyweight in Slovenian politics who went to this resort, but he almost cannot succeed in any affair, that he does not have a bucket to fall to, but well, it is, but it would not be offensive now, because this debate, I must say, is going very well. And I will say, on this intimate level, the lady has been thinking to me since the first day since we were saved at the hearing, although Mrs Majcen often says when she is running out of arguments, “what people will think, Mr Trček, that we are all like that in Styria” – we are not, but we are in some positions where we are, and we are trying to work professionally. Of course, it's hard matter, because we all live in time and space, all the interests here collide. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is essentially a committee, where at least the opposition, I will say, works most constructively. And I'm from a relatively small parliamentary group, and I have to cover half of the government by the committees that I'm covering, and the other half by jumping in. And if I were to say now, for the serious work of Parliament, we would need 30 more Members, and now the newspapers and people will tear me apart — why? Since the Member covers two committees in serious parliaments, and something else, if we want to respect this law, the ZUREP, not the troika, I should be dealing only with this by the end of my term of office, and have another expert besides my Government, who has now broken his leg. We are also people and I am also trying and I look forward to what my colleague Verbič said, I try not to step over the edge, not to be personally offensive, we often insult many professions, here more right of exit, sometimes SMC when we push it too much. This is the only thing on the board where we disagree, because of course I have different views, and then usually the right one starts with the professors and I start to be a philosopher. But we forget why we have all these delays and long-term procedures – because we have people on one side who are overworked and because we are at the same time, you are in this interviewing Janša, the Antijanš in Parliament that we no longer think that we can't open things and seriously look at them as to where the systemic problems are. And then what happens in practice? In practice, it's called kicking a cat in my mother's language, in Slovenian it's called kicking a dead horse, which is then put on a pranger in the media. Now, let's say I have a case in my head, the Ministry of Agriculture, that part of me against Ormož, when one bureaucrat literally burned down and couldn't get some procedures by hand, or the farmers would get the call back. We forget about it, maybe someone thinks I'm going too far on this subject, but I'm not going. We seriously will not regulate this legislation in this mandate. In the next two mandates – and I sincerely hope that Levika will be in there, because otherwise not only my children from Slovenia will escape, and it would be good for the next two mandates to have the same team – we will have to seriously regulate this threesome, the reform of local self-government, which is related to this, including regions, I say as an expert, this is almost the only thing I agree with the RCC, as much as the bishop, the archdiocese, essentially one less, if I am honest. Investment legislation – what does Magna tell us now? Magna tells us, look, if you have enough money, if you're a global corporation, we'll sort it out. But if I were to say, I don't know, and my colleague, Kranjc, my dear Marko Ferruga, would like to go into some business together, but they'll take us for a "cojones" and there'll be nothing out of it. And, of course, infrastructure. Man is an unauthentic being, he's basically an infant, and he's a very entropy being. What does that mean? We need a lot of energy, but we are not dealing with the issue of energy supply, energy poverty, energy efficiency, which is very lame in Slovenia, and we are producing garbage. And these are two of the key lobbyists Milan listed when SMC first got a little bit caught and when SMC didn't play its new policy. And after all, in Energy you have 42% higher average wages. These are some things you're gonna have to do. In particular, if I go to this legislation, I have one Mrs. Meto who accompany these sessions and sends me 10, 12 e-mails every day, sometimes I answer her, sometimes not. I welcome Mrs Meto, and as a Member I somehow can no longer imagine life without Mrs Matta, I very much like to have her send me an e-mail this weekend, because I see that I am not the only person who keeps thinking about the welfare of Slovenia. Today, she told me that she would sincerely commend — first of all, whom? I would like first of all to commend everyone who is involved in this debate, because I think that somehow with all seriousness, without any offense, we are touching very important matter. Of course, I would also like to commend some of the directions that are directed to bring legislation together into certain roof laws in some key areas. When I fell into Parliament as a sociologist, I had to learn to read law first. My postgraduate course went a little differently than Milan's. And what did they warn me about? I was warned that we are a number of sectors – these are important topics that touch this, and young people listen, I hope that one of them will sit here, that we will not wind up like Janša and Pahor for 30 years in politics, three mandates after 5 years is enough as in Austria, three years and a half serious government of work, as well as a coalition; I will then double advertise – many important areas have been broken into 2, 3 laws, sub-laws, regulations and, of course, there is a larger pool where interests can then be crossed and our common money and our common future is stolen. In this direction I welcome, but I also welcome this reminder to my colleague from SDS, whether that means saying, but now we're going to put it together in one marriage, and then we're going to put out those 2, 3 laws. I would be most happy to have a national assembly that would reduce the number of laws, let's say for one tenth, in this way. And I think we should actually do that. Cut through the sectoral approach. I absolutely agree, a sectoral approach is an approach when we look at development models between the two wars. A country like Slovenia, which is one of the few things I like about the Swiss system, could afford and need this thought, 7 ministries, the top of the head that crosses the horizontals, but of course, that means fewer ministerial cities and more responsible secretaries. In fact, we would need this, and in the next two terms, we should have a political team sitting here. And of course, even higher wages, let us be frank, ministers, secretaries of state, undersecretaries, because a serious Member does not have any life, these people have even less. Everyone who has three seconds of time is already spitting at me, and of course everyone who has a nanosecond has time. But it also speaks of us, here there is not much difference between when Maribor lost yesterday and how it rumbles on Facebook and somewhere else between the attitude towards politics. We are, and I have this lecture because of you, young people are on fire because I want you to become different. Because if we continue to do so, those who can escape will escape, and those who do not, will remain in Slovenia. And that's not funny! It's tragic. And you've cooked this tragedy in 25 years. Yesterday I went to see the Exterminator, and my role in Parliament was to exterminate such a policy and such people. For the good of you who are burning on the balcony. How much time do I have at this point? I'm moving on. Costs. Logically, the congregations view it through costs. Here the right kind of shows up beside me, who is the only one who deals with it, but I have already failed the entire mandate of a fluke minister who already has too much content, the costs of the municipalities. We never want to take this seriously. Nowhere in the real world do they have a congregation like ours. That's what the mayors don't like to hear, and that's what we're gonna have to do. All congregations cannot have the same scope of compulsory duties and also receive the same money. Smaller congregations will have a smaller scope of mandatory tasks, they will actually get fewer pennies at the first ball, but this is essentially a balancing of positive discrimination, as they will basically receive more money, more money, on a smaller scale. Second story. Of course, I would like to, because I taught spatial affairs, while crossing all these professions to finally let young people who have knowledge in the administrative units and at local level and at the ministry. We're a society and a country where people under 40 don't exist. We have no serious policy on this and no one will convince me that we have it. In 9.5 billion budgets, we find a splinter, 1.5 million, and those who occupy a resort, and the party underage often distributes this pennies to the civil society drain. We need to get serious here, too, and we need to think about it. Planning at the municipal level is, I'll say in human language, nonsense. Why? Even a tree that grows at the municipal border is protected as a natural monument, can have a few long exercises in the neighbouring municipality, the stream probably does not stop at the municipal border, unless two municipalities are as conflicted as it is in Slovenia – what? But Florence wanted to move the rivers, and who would beat someone like that? We should actually come from this logic. Yes, planning is taking place at regional level and we have not actually planned urbanism since there is a single Slovenia. The only ones with the most of that knowledge were involved — why am I talking in a woman’s sex? – are mainly landscape architects who now want to do a little bit of work here. If you were a little cynical, I'd say that someone wants a little Janša and Kučan to do it because they have both daughters who are a top-school landscape architect abroad. But it also points to our relationship or our relationship with the profession. This is where we get to Jefferson, the federalist records, and Milan will know what I'm talking about, that most people don't run over a minority. You have a smaller profession that somehow tries to overtake it. We don't have regions, of course, we have to do them, but not in the way that most policies are going to represent, let's just count it, let's give this poor hen so that my people get more so that this region from our quotas and again, as someone seen from Desus said, will come to heaven. Of course not. Industrial zones, which we find very well in the case of Magne, we have a lot of deindustrialized areas, where we have to deal with contaminated fingers and the like. Have you gone to solve these things, and you, who are so clever now, have been in politics for 20 years? No! No! Of course, any municipality that could have built its new industrial-turn zone was preferable so that the mayors and friends could serve. We also need an exterminator here to eliminate such practices. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'll continue in the next two reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u25	Is there another need to discuss this point? [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, he's been saying for so long that I forgot I had another one on my hands. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. I waited first in hopes of your reaction. In its implementation, the esteemed Dr. Trček said, inter alia, that he understood his mission and role in the extermination of a group of people. It seems important to me that you make it clear that such statements do not belong to this room or to any public discourse. Dear President, I propose that you allow Dr. Duck to apologize for saying so, because the last time the society tolerated the discourse to exterminate a social group, any group, even if he was trying to say it metaphorically, we know where it led. If you want, you have this option, you can interrupt the choir meeting, get a magnetogram, in any case, I think it went over the border. With everything Dr. Duck knows how to say and what is tolerated here, this kind of discourse is unacceptable to this congregation, to this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u27	I'll give you the procedure before I say it to the end. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. My colleague Skoberna is one of my better students, I've said that many times. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah?Oh, my God! If it's a fact. Why don't you compliment him? I'm basically [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, the older ones need to hear more than once because we don't eat persene. I can apologize, but, dear colleague Škoberne, of course, you have abused this a little because you have listened very well – I must actually watch Milan – that I refer to the title of a film that someone has translated. He translated it in a relatively awkward way. And I'm going to keep trying to exterminate these kinds of policies, because I actually have to, because otherwise yours and my kid, the kids won't think of it as retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u29	My opinion is that I do not attach these words to such contexts as this is metaphorical, by no means meant otherwise, because it cannot be otherwise. [[…]] All that depends and depends on in politics is how people choose us, whether they choose us or not, and it is the fate of anyone. In any other way, I didn't see it. I think that this is part of the apology that comrade Duck has given now is sufficient at this point. But I also listened very carefully because he was just teaching not to teach too much. He's got a magic word now. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you for noticing my turn to discuss. [[advertising from the hall]] Apology accepted. I can also understand the debate of the rebel colleague from Maribor, colleague of Trček, his metaphor in connection with the film. I did not understand in any way that Comrade Trček would want to exterminate me, SMC, colleague Škobernet or SD, not least has he announced several times that he wants to participate in the future coalition. Before this debate escapes in an unserious way, I still have to start a little bit of a race, if I say so in a Kafkovian way. He spoke of conditions in which we are not aware of space and time. There are still some of these situations, including dreams, and I have no idea what you were talking about on the committee today. I wonder who then worked there at half past midnight to discuss articles and amendments. You who talked about how the debate on the committee was going on, how this national assembly and its work were organised, are being held on the committee because you were not there, you certainly do not know what was going on there. It's obviously from what you said here today. I can understand the legitimate political reasons for the obstruction of the Left and the SDS on the Committee, which are linked to the way amendments were tabled. I can honestly say that even in the SMC, we were not satisfied with the way the amendments were coming, but we were very pleased with the way we coordinated with the coalition and with the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is why we eventually tolerated the way the Committee was working, and, last but not least, we also participated in the work of the committee, while those who obstructed the meeting were not. Serious political thinking means taking advantage of every opportunity to work in the National Assembly. Speaking back now about not having the opportunity to work and participate in the debate is not serious. Last but not least, Comrade Duck, it is not serious that you have not spoken in 15 minutes about your amendment or the amendment to the Left you have tabled, so you probably do not expect us to support it. In addition to the fact that there are no substantive reasons, although there is now no debate on the amendment to the 63rd Article, where the amendment was tabled by the Left, but on 44. But based on practice, I'm just talking about everything. In addition to the fact that the substance of this matter is quite well regulated in the law, as we also heard on the committee, of course, Comrade Trček, you were not. To begin with, however, it is still necessary to respond to the argument that arose in connection with the obstruction on the Committee, and this is a bit of a rush. Later, from the implementation of all the invited ones you are now arguing about, how many of them there were, it is not important at all, but what they have said has proved to be important that there was no rush to accept the whole package, not just this law. For years, they said they were invited, they were co-ordinated. Even from 2012, let's say, the idea of amending this legislation, because in practice it has been shown that legislation, which has been too fragmented, is incomprehensible, has caused a lot of conflict in time and space, as my colleague, Trček said, was not appropriate. That's why we have a reduction from three laws to one at ZUREP, and I would like to see it succeed in some other laws, so that we don't have 7,000 of them, but I don't know how many, 20,000 sub-laws, but the number of sub-laws here is down from 12 to 4, and two of them have already been adopted. We could hear all this on the board. Sifkovič Vrbica, who represented the Space Network and Plan B for Slovenia at the meeting of the Committee, said, quote: “Superstandard implementation of the participatory procedure.” I have never heard such a thing on any committee, nor on any committee have I heard so much attachment to the adoption of this package and especially the ZUREP. Of course, the warnings were, in particular, the most work with the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as with the municipalities and certain individuals, particularly the gentleman who then spoke about the boards in connection with the amended provision on economic public infrastructure, and he was, of course, explained that his fear was increasing. That is why it is very important that we have also agreed to work on the committee with the amendments of the Committee and representatives of the Ministry of Space, Madam Minister, Mr Luka Ivanič, Mrs Teja Baloh, to explain all things in detail, and that is why we worked until half an morning, while some have probably already dreamed if I return to the beginning. What did we take into account? The next amendment is article 58, judicial protection. Here was the dilemma, whether to leave judicial protection as it has been regulated so far, i.e. only under the Judicial Procedure Act, and with regard to disputes under the Administrative Dispute Act and other substantive provisions concerning disputes there to the Constitutional Court, or to regulate it as is the case with regard to the warnings of the European Commission or even, I think, that the actions concerning the failure of legal protection in this regard are not well regulated. With regard to the comments of the municipalities, the municipal contribution, we have aligned the material provisions relating to the construction code with the amendments, and in the discussion on the following point we explain in more detail how exactly and when it should be paid in connection with the issue of the building permit, i.e. that this condition exists. We have taken many NGOs into account in this regard. I repeat, a number of them have sat on the committee, they have all attached themselves to the law and to the adoption of this and cooperation in the past years, and, last but not least, the coalition on this law has co-ordinated for more than a year. As far as the municipal urbanist is concerned, this is also related to Article 44 and its expertise, the whole intention of the law is to ensure professionality in the early stages of planning and regulating the premises. Here are the municipalities themselves, the representative of MOL and ZMOS pointed out the lack of expertise at the municipal level, of course in relation to the expertise of officials involved in regulating the premises at the state level, however, the conditions that we have written for the municipal urbanist in this article answer this professional question, namely how professional urbanists must be at the municipal level. In addition, we do not tie our necks with the amendment to the congregations, but we give them two years of opportunity to meet the requirements of the municipal urbanist. Not to mention that the municipal urbanist will be able to provide in different ways, not only by hiring him in the administration. Finally, as regards what colleagues Lah and colleague Horvat have said about the fact that the law does not shorten procedures, but actually prolongs them, and they have justified this by the number of new stages. It was a flat-rate assessment that if each phase lasts – I don't know how much said my colleague Horvat – two and a half months to come for 5 years, which of course he doesn't hold at all, by the way, and that this is again an attempt at manipulation that we're used to by a colleague of Horvat from some other more numerous; it is said, the financial committee regarding how the effects are accounted for. More importantly, the number of new stages does not mean automatic extension of the procedure, because the new phases help to address the problem that I mentioned earlier that the legislation has not been sufficiently clear, transparent and understandable. This means that with the new stages it is now and, of course, can, under the condition of the expertise of all the participants, including the municipal urbanists I mentioned earlier, these stages, which are more, run much faster. On the committee, Mr Luka Ivanič explained this comparison precisely with foreign, municipal spatial plans and municipal detailed spatial plans, where you tried to create a kind of appearance that was moving faster and smoother. He explained the difference between what we are actually comparing; whether it is more appropriate to compare our OPN or OPPN abroad, plus by explaining that even longer deadlines are set abroad for comparable rules than for us. So the real question is why things are taking so long for us. And we're back in the field of expertise! And how clear and understandable it is for the application and enforcement of legislation and these new stages serve this purpose. Metaphoro, colleague Lah, let me tell you; if you buy a piece of furniture, you get only two pictures, and at the beginning only the screws, the tool you need, and finally the picture, you'll need more time to put together this closet than if you get a precise plan after the phases, where you need a screw to draw something together. And you'd say, oh, this is going to take a long time, but it's not true. The entire process of regulating space and hierarchy, which was also said to be unknown by the SDS, is well-known! Thus, the SMC would not repeat what has already been said by the Ministry and what we have stated in the presentation of our position after the general debate regarding the purposes, solutions and objectives of the law, because everyone can verify it. In short, both alone and in the SMC, we will fully support the law, and the amendment of the Left, which was not discussed at all by the proposer, and not by the amendments of the New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u31	Procedurally and later we have a replica. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I have to check in so that this debate that was fine wouldn't have slipped somewhere. My procedural proposal is that my colleague apologizes to me. I have to basically explain why. Although he set up a popular rhetorical figure, he does not actually drink water for many reasons. For the first time, I was in a session until all the invited ones spoke. Second of all, what I always say to my students is, don't ever think of yourself as a population. What does that mean? That means, even when I obstruct the session, I go to the office and listen to what you're saying. I often even have to drive my experts and experts home late at night: “Go! If I don't have anything from my family, go, I'll do the thing myself." Third story. That you were working till 1:00 in the morning. I was sitting in the office, and I told you the next day, if I was there, this session would take three days. I'll do it to you once, taking into account all the rules of procedure, but you know, the number of hours isn't the key. It is crucial whether we come to good legislation or not, which we often do not come to. Once, as a little bit of a stretch, it is not too much, because even Eva, colleague of Bane Rajić, architect, urbanist with good Belgrade school of urbanism, with a master's degree, member of your party – not even his amendments. [[…]] In short, don't ask me, please, pumpkins roll and don't take a serious debate away from what you've just wanted, budding colleague. SMC, when pressed against the wall with arguments, usually you begin to behave in the way most of the time in the National Assembly uses SDS, and sometimes a colleague of Lach still gets a little carried away – I said it well yesterday because I finally got out of the SDS because of this bone digging. So that I don't abuse it now, I want the debate to go back to where it has to go. However, in my so-called lecture, I also explained an amendment that a colleague could hear if he listened carefully. I was talking about the landscape architects, of course. Yeah. I expect an apology, and I hope that the debate on all three laws will go on as it has done so far. In fact, your colleagues have already said that this is a popperplexic matter, because these amendments are so broken down for you over various things that I will end up with a metaphor that my fellow engineer will understand. This law, as it goes forward, is the worst Ikaya's locker, where you'll be missing a third of what you actually need for the naravfat. And that's essentially the problem if people are listening to this, which the whole opposition is warning you about. It grieves me that no mouth shall open from Desus. After all, I'd expect you to at least defend your minister in an argumentative manner. I expect an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u33	I'll take this procedural one as a wish for a debate. You've used three minutes, of course, with the desire to get you mag. Krajnc apologizes. I believe you're going to have a conversation. It is possible, however, that this lesson of the story is to be rational with time in order to use it and to use it for the debate we are sitting here today. Reploco wanted Mr. Lah. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u34	My friend Bojan, from what you've discussed the last time, it's clear that you've never dealt with this issue. Just when you told me that everything needed to be done together, so there are more procedures to be both screws and pages and I don't know what else happened at the same time, that's what we're pointing out, because here we have to ask the space regulators three times. That means you only get the boards first, and then you have to call in the screws, and they send you the screws, and then you're missing the keys, and you call again to get the keys. This is the procedure. Our amendments are also going, although the law is bad, to this end, to the conclusion at the outset that those who want to change the spatial act then say what they want to change, quite precisely and that the operators of space regulation once say yes, yes, yes, yes. But not three times then, and they're still pushing you, and I'm sorry, I don't know how many times, and then it comes in years. Mr Ivanič himself said that it was Magna, that the spatial act was a procedure under the rules. Everything went by the book in six months. Why, though, in all other congregations, four to eight years? Where is this now? Mr Verbič spoke earlier about not knowing any good officials. Where? In the developed Western world, they don't even know administrative units. But you were the Chief. If we didn't have them, we wouldn't have a job. The problem is that we make things too complicated and that everything is on the clerks, we have to ask him three times. Let's simplify it. Let's put it all together. Let's just say we need this once and for all. What I was saying around the road. Here we have an amendment to the construction law that there is no need for services to access parcels, because otherwise we will not solve legalisations. You confirm what I said in the question of the House, and what I'm going to do today. We're talking in three days!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u35	I understand that there is still a desire for debate. Mr. Horvath has a replica. [[…]] Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, exactly what you said. There must be an argumentated debate here. I have no problem if my esteemed colleague Krajnc, dear Bojan, estimates that I have manipulated me to speak with numbers. Yeah, I'm repeating the numbers. I repeat. It's been 18 stages so far. These are numbers, this is a diagram of the progress of the adoption of the OPN. I've put one through -- I don't know how many of you are -- and so far, 18, and now there's a new five. So how much is it together? 18 plus 5 is 23 new stages. This is an extension, colleague Krajnc – do not hide there, come to the place where you belong – and this is now your manipulation and now you must be Mr. Krajnc plaska of all 212 Slovenian mayors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u37	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss Article 44? I see that yes, but I do invite you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Here you go, please. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I must admit that this debate is somehow moving away from the content itself in some way, namely the Law on the Regulation of Space. That's why I'm somehow obliged to respond to a comment. In view of the fact that I have touched myself in the introductory debate, particularly in most of the protection of the public working in the field of environment and space, the real issue of building permits and so-called usable permits is being issued, and when there has been a speech now by the distinguished predecessor that everything is not as it should be, I agree with myself. 58 administrative units, which are solely responsible for first-degree decision-making, were established in 1994. My key question is where are all those — if I may say so — who are still somehow a little abusers of the content of this law today, even to criticise such an officialism. Once again, of these hundreds of officials in the first stage, there is certainly a percentage that should not normally be in these places — we are not talking about whether they are qualified or not. My modest opinion is that they are professionally qualified, but the fact is that this is on the shoulders of those responsible, in this case those who run either administrative units or a higher level to select it. It is true that in individual cases, especially in the case of demanding building permits, there are cases that are not proud, but we cannot talk about all of them. I also believe that the adoption of this law is one of the elements that is absolutely closely linked to the next law and the Construction Act, and the instrument that will make some progress in the process of issuing a building permit. For this reason, I cannot agree with the negation or any opposition to the necessary amendments passed by this specific law. Also in the debate of honourable Members, it has been re-explained why some new bodies, groups, commissions and so forth are now emerging with the Law on the regulation of space. And I will re-emphasize, in this so-called established spatial council and this so-called spatial control commission – what is this intended for? Not because bureaucracy is multiplying needlessly, but because the profession will have greater influence. I myself am explaining such a change mainly in the direction that where there was also a bit of skepticism in the debate of some Members, this so-called regional planning. I am convinced that many are blinding themselves, that there is no need or necessity for regional planning today. Many times in the National Assembly, as well as in the home committees, it is said that one of the weaknesses is that after so many decades of independence Slovenia has not yet achieved the constitutional category of the provinces. But when we talk about the premises, I think we need to listen to the profession that is pressing on the Ministry or on the Minister to make this so-called regional aspect more serious and also to be registered in this law. I believe that there is almost no policy here, but it is the interest of the local communities in particular that finally the so-called municipal spatial plans, rather than the municipal detailed spatial plans, are already as close as possible to the interests of the local communities, the mayors, the municipalities, their municipal councils – what we need to do is be of great interest to investors. Because for every investor we really have to be very happy. End when the speech is about these municipal spatial plans. The fact is that the Space Regulation Act literally excludes this so-called strategic part of the Act. And, as a result, what good does this marriage bring? Above all, the municipal detailed spatial plan will become an implementing act. This is where I'd end up. I'm not saying that the law is ideal, that there may not be a need for upgrades on a case-by-case basis. If in three years there was not enough professional and political will to make this move or turn for the better, then it is high time that we have the Law on the Regulation of Space here now on the table and that it is accepted. It is simple to leave the professions and also local communities to follow and, if necessary, to upgrade this content. What kind of marriage, though, is so ideal that we can say that it is so complex that at the very beginning it pleases all stakeholders? This is not the case in Slovenia or in any country that is seriously involved in democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u39	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. No, no, no. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u40	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. There is one very important change in legislation, spatial regulation. I note that, already in the course of the drafting of this law and coordination, there are very different opinions and views on how to deal with individual issues relating to the regulation of space. I have no doubt that this is also happening in practice, even when municipal spatial plans and other implementing documents are adopted. It is more than obvious that this legislation, which is now existing, is currently in force, that it needs an upgrade and that this upgrade must also contain certain mechanisms in order for all these conflicting opinions to be aligned. At the committee's own meeting, we witnessed some of the views of the invitees who participated in the formation of this legislation. Their view that this legislation was basically good convinced me. Of course, each of them has said where the individual points that are problematic in their position are, but the Ministry of the Environment and Space has put in these concerns, or on these concerns, reasoned opinions, which is why I assess that the law, as it is, is appropriate for this to be adopted in this national assembly. I do not want to prejudice the implementation of this law in the future. I am sure that there will also be open questions, even until the practice of decision-making is resolved, for example, on individual matters in the adoption of the municipal spatial plan, the practice of remedies and so on. That's why I believe there will be certain manipulations and fingertips and the like. However, in view of the opinions we have received on the Committee, I consider that this law is not so bad that it should be rejected. Of course, here I agree with my colleague Verbic as well as with others who have pointed out that this is a huge number of amendments that we have witnessed, that this is quite problematic and that the Ministry-State Assembly will be on the line, and, above all, the Legislative and Legal Services of the Government of Law, there is a need to make an effort to adopt some guidelines on nomological issues in the adoption of legislation. Sometimes I get the feeling that these two jobs are simply competing with each other, which is more right, and in the end, we are actually carrying all the weight of these differences. Today, there have been many criticisms by some opposition Members. Of course, it does not surprise me, but it surprises me so much in this work that those who have obstructed the meeting are speaking. I have even heard some comments on the report, or a summary of the report I read as the chairman of the committee, and I can only send everyone who agrees to read the report on the National Assembly website. I understand whether or not some have had time to read the amendments at the committee meeting, but I do not understand that you do not read this report, where you are also mentioned why you were gone. But if I've been challenged in this part, I can read it. For example, I'm going to quote my colleague Duck before he announced the obstruction of what he said on the working body. I quote from the magnetogram: "Let's go seriously with two laws that we can make as solidly as we can, but of course in a way that gives us at least fourteen days of time to break through all the amendments, and that we — even suggest — every law in a meeting in a place where we can all breathe, because I am just before I change into a sweatshirt, according to my own words. A certain range of sweatpants does not like it, but here, because otherwise, if you drive it today, then I will obstruct the session.” In short, I told you why my buddy Duck obstructed it. He also stated that he needed the right to a private life day over the weekend and so on. Daniel Krivec said that "we will support this proposal, we will propose the same for all three laws... Yeah, we were talking about a procedural proposal to move things along. The proof that the matter is uncoordinated is also what Comrade Duck warned, the amendments coming on the bench. I know that this is possible under the rules of procedure, but for such an important matter, which is related — what I said before — the amendment in the same law also affects the remaining two laws and such an amendment is not used to such important legislation. This has not yet been the case, so if we do not move the laws to one of the next meetings, that we have the opportunity to review all this mountain of amendments, we are also predicting obstruction in our parliamentary group.” In short, these are the reasons. If you want, I can read them again in the report on the following two laws, because you have obstructed once for all three laws, but I think the written report is more than clear why and how. As far as the readings we received today are concerned, I might also point out this. It's sometimes heard, I've even heard the impression of my colleague, Bojan Krajnc, in the sense that you've never dealt with this problem. These are very problematic words, if mentioned or spoken by someone who dealt with this issue, with spatial legislation, if he worked in the congregation, then he was a Member, and he did nothing as a Member, but now to others who are adopting new legislation that is obvious, and you have not done so; it seems to me that this is a little unrealistic and irresponsible. I think that those in charge of drafting this legislation at the Ministry were also present at the Committee's own meeting to give so many reasoned answers to all the concerns, including those involved or dealing with this issue. So now this manipulation of who dealt with it or not, I don't think it's in place. There was also talk of Magna and the like; in short, some problems and how they could be done in the case of Magna. Of course it's true, but look, we had this problem with Magna, too, that part of the policy stood up against this project and found a whole bunch of excuses. The SDS delegation, for example. To make it inappropriate. They pointed out the harmful effects on the environment and the like. There is no law that can prevent such manipulation and similar things; in short, especially when it comes to certain goals that are completely political in nature. I believe that there will be important comments within one year from the start of the implementation of this law, but then, I do not know, by those who use the law, that there will probably be any amendment in any part of it, but that in the grave it is this path that we must continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u41	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Of course, I'll expect an apology, but I have some things to say in substance that I've already said. The last time I normally spoke to Mira Cerar was the day he became President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We were together at the talk of Luka Moon, Miro Cerar and my trifle. I have literally proposed to Mir Cerar that, in the division of committees, the Committee on Infrastructure of the Left. Why? Because we were the only ones in this infrastructure, environment, spatial affairs. Miro Cerar said that I will not do this to you because the SD will beat me too much and we have the consequences of Mr Zorčič, who has now demonstrated nicely that he is not fit to lead this committee. I am the vice-chairman of this committee to advise on several occasions, which is my duty under the rules of procedure. But he never takes that into account. We also have the problem of “enclosing” committees in the National Assembly so that the Vice-Presidents do not even get information. We get information if we have to go on a business trip when someone doesn't want to. He is very reluctant to go to Brussels because then I am going to save the occasional honor of Slovenia. Mr. Zorčič doesn't say something. As chairman of the committee, he saw a huge group of civil society, professional public, and he pushed us there — and that would also be your duty — into a small space where we could hardly breathe, which people can confirm. But of course he didn't say a word. In fact, SDS, not SDS, SMC, you're much more vehement than SDS ever was, I must say. You've upgraded this matter by pressing you against the wall. I mean, in three years of politics, we could learn something, especially you, Comrade Zorčič, who has forged that lex Zorčič, but obviously you don't need to, and you're going to push this scale forward and in fact want to end this serious debate now. And one more thing! You like to tell her how they came in, what everyone said, civil society supported this marriage. Let's be honest! My leg-broken expert has now warned me: a large majority of their amendments have not read because they also have the right to a weekend because they have not seen those amendments that they are supposed to decide on on the committee. Secondly – I spit in half, I apologize – very often civil society members tell me, I must not be too critical, because then I will not get the money. That's also the fact of it. Then let's talk seriously about this, not say, yes, because we've all been supported. They didn't all support you! If you had listened seriously, there was a huge, huge, huge number of concerns, proposals, but if we had the rules of procedure slightly different so as to leave more involvement for the invited, even during the debate alone, there would be more. I expect an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u43	Dr. Duck, we're here to witness, with all due respect, the abuse of this institute, because you're already discussing it in the second order. You have two options, either to announce more time or to try to take advantage of the time allocated to you, more useful for you to discuss further with your colleagues, fellow Members and Members. We have two replicas. The first is Mr Lah and the second is Mr Zorčič. You wanted procedural, Mr. Zorčič? Procedural. I apologize, Mr Lah, Mr Zorčič has the advantage. You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, I would only suggest that you lay on your soul to see at least the record of this committee if it wasn't already there. We moved to another place. It's precisely because of such deception, and also because you're obstructing the sessions, you don't seem to be a better candidate to run this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u45	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u46	Dear colleague Zorčič, now you're lying like a dog running. When I said that, we were still in that hole, which is also likely to be in the magnetogram. Am I going to have to ask the expert who was sitting there to confirm it? Grow up! Comparing you to me on this board management is an insult to already trojan doughnuts – but now you can give me a reminder. Thank you and I hope that this debate will now go seriously, perhaps it would not be bad that a serious part of the SMC requires a pause for Mr Zorčič to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u47	And I suggest we move on with our work. I believe that both of you are aware that this is most important today because of the events that have just taken place, I hope that we will be more constructive in the future. Mr. Bell Lah, would you like a replica? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u48	I cannot accept that, Mr Zorčič, when you have seen that those of us who have been in this Parliament for a long time have not discussed this issue or have demanded that it be resolved in all these years. That's not true. It is true that you have been greatly forgiven by me to hold a committee meeting because you have flown from the moon to the Infrastructure Committee, but I have been constantly – you can check in the archive – I have been on this committee all the time since I've been in Parliament, and I've been looking all the time for a solution to this problem. Even more so! Before I came to Parliament, I took the initiative, through the Association of Municipalities, to solve this problem, but Mr Ivanič can say that I was also at the Ministry through the Community Association when we were trying to get some law on putting projects of state importance into space. All the time! Last thing I did was, on Monday, on a question from the Parliamentary Minister, I brought my solution to the problem of municipal categorisations of municipal roads in March 2015, when the State Council convened a large meeting, where all stakeholders from the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, have done nothing since then, and now they are putting in law to solve this problem because we are not solving it in this ZUREP. Don't say things like that! We have been working all the time because as mayors we have been limited to the functioning of municipalities to the detriment of investors, to the detriment of citizens, because this issue has not been regulated as well as in neighbouring countries. Did I tell you? [[…]] In this regard, I tell you that many of those invited agreed. Those invited are mainly the lobby, those who have abused this law, that there are 23 points in place, and that they have extra time, because they will have more work and will be able to justify their existence. Those were on Pa look at the magnetogram they were representing themselves for. [[…]] Magnetogram! That's your kimali! Of course, because the procedures will be longer and they will have more work to do. And since they will have more work to do, the procedures will be even longer for the congregations. However, if this law is so good, let us check in half a year how many congregations have adopted under this law within half a year of the U.N. from now on when the law has been passed. And we will find out before the elections, that nothing, none – after this law. I'd bet on that!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u49	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We have a bunch of amendments, so please, if you'd like to discuss clearly by raising your hand. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 63 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 86 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 108 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 111 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 114 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 131 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 165 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 173 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 182 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 194 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 106 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 120 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm sorry, paragraph 220. I find that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 149 – Article 249 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 250 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to the first chapter of the transitional and final provisions and the amendment of the same proposer for the new Article 265.a are substantively linked and will therefore be discussed together. I am therefore putting to the debate the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to the first chapter of the transitional and final provisions for the new Article 265.a. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 285 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 287 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 289, as well as the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. I find that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 294 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Since the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to the new Chapter are the final provision for Article 298 and the amendment of the same proposing body to Chapter 17 – The final provision is substantively linked, we will discuss them together. So, in the debate, I am putting forward these amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 299 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal of the Civil Code within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u50	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the Construction Law is to protect public interest in the construction of buildings. In the first place, the safety of buildings to protect the health and life of people, as well as the protection of the environment, nature, cultural heritage, the appearance of settlements and landscapes and other protected values of spaces. This purpose shall be exercised in the law through the rights and obligations of participants in the construction of buildings, taking into account the guidance to prescribe such minimum administrative requirements as are necessary to achieve the purpose of the construction law. This is why every time the building legislation changes to improve and rationalise these administrative requirements and the proposal for a construction law in this respect, there is a number of simplifications in terms of the investor, such as the abandonment of the requirement to obtain a building permit for the removal of buildings, minor reconstruction and temporary facilities, the integration of the building permit and environmental consent into the same process, the requalification of consent and opinions and their full integration into the building permit, the reduction of the documentation for the acquisition of the building permit, the reduced procedure, the simplified procedure for obtaining a usable permit by abolishing technical checks, the possibility of legalising already built non-problematic facilities and informing administrative procedures. Statistical data show that an average of 21 days is required to issue a building permit in the Republic of Slovenia, stressing that the deadline for issuing a construction permit starts from the date of complete application for a construction permit. However, we hear about long-term procedures, since the subjective assessment of the time needed to issue the building permit also takes into account the time needed to possibly amend the spatial act, the time to complete the incomplete project documentation and the time needed to obtain the required consent and the coordination of the co-operators. The proposal for a package of new spatial construction legislation also allows for movement in these three areas. ZUreP-2 allows individualised procedures to amend the spatial implementation act by location verification and facilitates the legal space implementation conditions in the event of changes to existing facilities. In addition, with instruments such as the Commission on Spatial Development, we are introducing an accelerated decision-making process into municipal spatial planning and thus shorter procedures for the adoption and amendment of spatial acts. In addition to the construction law, we introduce mandatory investor advice before the start of the administrative procedure, thereby improving the preparedness of documentation and applications for licences and the intermediate speedy completion of administrative procedures. The proposal also addresses the issue of consensus by reclassifying them in opinions, thereby allowing for the coordination and possibility of altering an opinion in the process of issuing a building permit and even replacing it in the event of the silence of the authorising officer responsible. In the legislative procedure, the draft law with the amendments adopted by the Home Committee has seen many improvements and changes resulting from both professional and political decisions. Among the most important decisions is the decision to prescribe a municipal contribution as a condition for the issuance of a building permit and does not consider it a condition for the start of construction and the decision that the age of the building as a condition for the legalisation of the longer-term facility is fixed on day 1. 1. 1998, so this date is no longer sliding. In the second reading, several amendments to the bill have also been tabled to provide additional facilities for the rehabilitation of existing buildings, and they also address the issue of construction on existing private-owned active roads, as has been pointed out several times in previous discussions. Since the amendments tabled at second reading are less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, we propose that a third consideration of the law be held at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to her President, Mr Igor Zorčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 33rd meeting, on 3. Ten. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a construction law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. The National Assembly shall be held on the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at its 31st meeting. 6. 2017 held a general debate on the draft law and adopted the conclusion that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the members of the Lévica Group, the SDS, the Member of Branislav Rajić, the members of the coalition, who were then withdrawn and the members of the committee were also invited to amend the proposal for amendments to the Committee by 107 and 113 members of the Desus and SMC Group of Members of the Committee of 3. Ten. 2017 and the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, on the basis of a proposal by the representative of Line Media, d.o.o. The Committee also voted on all proposals. The amendments adopted are reflected in the written report. This meeting was also held without members of the SDS and the Left parliamentary groups, who had announced obstruction in this agenda item in the course of the consideration of the proposal for an area regulation law, due to the receipt of a large number of proposals for amendments to the Committee shortly before the meeting of the Committee. In its initial supplementary explanation, the Minister for Environment and Space explained that the main objectives of the proposed law are to reduce investment risk, to improve the legal certainty of investment intent, to integrate procedures, to enable the coordination of protection and development interests, to inform procedures, to strengthen the responsibility of participants in construction, to remove administrative barriers and to legalise non-problematic facilities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service highlighted some of the comments made in the written opinion of the Service on the rights and obligations of individual participants in the construction, on the sanctions relating to the construction in its own direction and on the authorisation of a longer-standing facility. In conclusion, it stressed that most of the comments made by the service were taken into account by the amendments proposed by the Committee and that the Ministry made clarifications with regard to the other comments. The representative of the State Council explained that the proposed law supports and positively assesses the consideration of stakeholders by the proposer in the search for appropriate solutions. He also drew attention to some of the existing dilemmas and comments on the solutions proposed. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who explained that most of the proposals and comments made by the Chamber were taken into account in the drafting of the law and stressed that the Chamber supported the proposed law. At the meeting below, the representative of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, the representative of the Chamber of Architecture and Space, explained that the Chambers were undermining the proposed amendments. The Chambers propose some additional changes in their desire to improve the proposed solutions. Member Branislav Rajić has taken up these proposals in the amendments tabled. The representative of the Engineering Chamber also made a comment on the project documentation system. Both representatives expressed opposition to the content of Article 50 on legalisation and supported the proposal for an amendment to the Committee. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry also objected to the adoption of the amendment to Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Act, which states that the investor can carry out the construction itself for his own purposes. The representative of the Association for Engineering and the Association for Counselling at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia welcomed the cooperation with the proposer, in which some of their proposals were taken into account. He further presented individual proposals to complement the proposed solutions. Representatives of Linea Media, d.o.o., also participated in the meeting, expressing their opposition to the transfer of the power to control simple facilities within the jurisdiction of the municipalities. One of them then made a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 8, which had not been adopted. The short discussion expressed support for the proposed law and expressed satisfaction that the participating stakeholders did not show their disfavor for the proposed solutions. The need to ensure greater responsibility for stakeholders, in particular builders and designers, and to increase the player's response to the investor's role as an investor throughout the construction process has been expressed. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law jointly and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u53	At its 31st meeting, the assembly held a general debate on the draft law, and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2017. I therefore put to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Mr. Daniel the Crimson, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I have submitted myself to the amendment to Article 43, and I would like to ask the Minister, in particular the Minister, for clarification of the coalition, whether or not she supports this amendment, because the report of these amendments is not yet in writing. You are adding new paragraphs 4 and 5 and I am interested, here is the speech about adding a new paragraph, which reads as follows, “if it is a matter of obtaining a building permit for the reconstruction or replacement of a building damaged in a natural or other accident, in a way that establishes the previous situation, and it is not a matter of measures referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, of this Act,” says those urgent remedial works “are not checked in the procedure for issuing the building permit conditions referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article.” When I look at the writing, the third indent of this first paragraph of Article 43 says, “the intended construction is in line with the rules underlying the issue of opinions.” So this is not taken into account, but everything else is taken into account. Since in the first indent it says that “the construction complies with the provisions of the spatial implementing act in the works relating to the construction of buildings and with the provisions of the space regulation.” Now I just want to know if I'm reading this amendment right now, if that's what it meant. Because it's very important. Since, if the third point of this first set is not taken into account, the first paragraph of this Article is right not to verify that only this part is checked, then we have done nothing if all the other articles are still in force — if the construction complies with the provisions of the spatial implementing act in the work relating to the construction of the buildings, as the first indent says. Now I'm going to tell you in practical terms why. Because in the case of replacement construction in the event of a natural disaster, it is also necessary to make a difference, because if you go to the rescue projects to do what your intention was in this amendment, in order to facilitate replacement construction in the event of some natural disasters, it is also necessary to reflect the condition of departures because these are key things in such situations. Because otherwise you may never be able to set this object. If you went to an earthquake recovery practice, that's how it was. Procedures shall be concluded at the parcel border in the event of replacement construction of such a facility, as otherwise there shall be a procedure for the consent of neighbouring parcels, which may not be feasible and, in essence, stop the replacement construction in the event of a natural disaster. It can happen that a neighbor is just a little edgy and will not allow replacement construction, even though it would be necessary in accordance with a natural disaster. I would like to explain this because I understand the intention of this amendment of yours, but if we read it with the rest of this Article 43, which speaks of conditions, the matter will not work in practice. I'll tell you that firsthand. That is why I would like to hear the Minister's comment and perhaps also the proposer's comment, because this is a very important article to some extent, because you obviously want to solve cases of natural disasters in this legislation, which is right, but then the article must also be feasible in practice, but not essentially blocking the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u55	Madam Minister, Minister for the Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, has the floor and Mr Trček has also asked for the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you. If I touch the fourth and fifth subparagraphs of Article 43, I would say that all the measures referred to in the second paragraph of Article 1 are not of a nature such that they must be implemented immediately as a result of the occurrence of a natural or other accident, in order to deter the danger and to cause further damage in the event of a direct threat. Nor is it a matter of protective measures between states of emergency or war. For those who qualify for such conditions, the law does not apply at all, which means that neither the building permit nor the use permit is necessary. There is no need to comply with spatial acts or building regulations and there is no need for qualified experts to cooperate, as this is an urgent matter. In order to allow for natural and other accidents, for example in a fire, damaged facilities due to exceptional circumstances and the need for the early establishment of the previous situation to be remedied, a provision is proposed to allow for the verification of the conformity of the intended rehabilitation of the facility with the opinions when the same situation as it was prior to the occurrence of the accident is established. So for an object that will stand in the same place and the same gabaritas and the same external appearance. Exceptions are objects with a mandatory environmental impact assessment and an assessment of acceptability. In the new Article 20 ZUreP, we say in the fifth indent, "the existing legally built buildings on building sites are authorised irrespective of the provisions of spatial implementing acts... “Then we have in the third—no, fourth indents—no, in the third, I apologize, ‘replacement of construction which does not depart from the existing building in respect of the position, the gabarites, the shape, destination and appearance of the building; in the case of replacement construction because of a natural or other accident in accordance with the law governing the protection against natural and other accidents, the application for a building permit must be submitted within five years of the occurrence of a natural or other accident”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u57	Dr. Franz Duck, you wanted the word Is it a replica, Mr. Daniel Krivec? [[…]] It's a replica. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u58	I'll have my buddy Duck fill me in later. I listened very carefully. Because what you've been saying is true, because this is the first exception in case of emergency construction. However, you are speaking in this article about the conditions for issuing a building permit and then you are to be amended with an exception which excludes only opinions, only a third indent. In the first indent, you say that if a building permit is issued, the construction must comply with the provisions of the spatial implementing act. What you just said doesn't save anything. I've only warned you that if you don't rule out this work in cases of natural disasters, you'll have big, big problems. Because you also need to exclude the consent of the borders, because otherwise it does not work out in practice, because this is what we are, unfortunately we have to say, on specific occasions on the earthquake recovery, and I tell you that the matter is important. Read this as you have written, and so it stands, and so it is necessary to read, since the articles are read by officials. Your interpretation is not now valid, because you are neither the first nor the second indent in which spatial acts are referred to, in this case do not exclude the necessary construction for replacement construction in the event of a natural accident and will cause this inoperability in practice. That's all I'm saying. So thank you if you'll listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u59	Dr. Here you go, Franz Duck. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Here Daniel, based on his experience of the mayor who had to deal with the earthquake reconstruction, showed very nicely why this legislation should be changed more carefully, accepted, but not praised by someone, but we sat here until one morning. However, this particular case does not necessarily involve just some earthquake recovery. Anyone who becomes a secretary, if he does not know before, will be told that a third of Slovenia is repulsive. Anyone who becomes a minister, if he doesn't know before, is told that Savinja is extremely floody, and I'm not going with Laska and up and down now. There is no need for a reptile to happen here — what Daniel explained. I hope that people, some, are listening to this, but I hope that SMC has exhausted that dose of cynicism to understand somehow in practice. There's enough of a reptile, a medium-class beach, and you'll have it there, I don't know, you'll want to deal with it, and you'll have a problem, as you say in Kranjska Gora, you'll have a problem. I understand the minister's tired, but maybe somehow she didn't understand it. I'm going to explain the problem of all of these three to you with some metaphor. I love watching hockey. I like hockey. Hockey is a fast collective game where you have flying shifts. But we are adopting some key important legislation, which, of course, needs to be reconsidered and adopted in a flying way. These amendments are flying in, out that this living god is no longer coming. But you know, every committee, every parent's working body has a small part of experts who aren't political. The Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee has a good secretary, a hat down. But I doubt he's getting all that's going on around this legislation, and I really respect him. Probably not him either. Nor did Mr Zorčič, nor did I, as Vice-President, and others, very much interested Members and Members, on the subject. At this basic level, perhaps what some mentioned was a violation of laws, how something collided in another law, and through a certain article in a third law. And yet to suggest that we have a second and third hearing at the same meeting, I apologize, but after basic education, I am a science-mathematic technique, the direction of applied mathematics – the logic here cancels. Now, at this point, I'm going to stop by to explain this amendment of ours, but let's say, this was a really nice school example of how someone who has experience in practice shows that we're packing again in this way, as it goes on, some new problem. Then there will be some other sub-marriage acts, and when we “shut up” some other interesting lobby in there – I don't know, ministers drive with cars, I drive by public transport, and people talk to me about everything, but you know, let's be serious, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u61	Mag. Dušan Verbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. In view of the fact that we are now under the second law, the Construction Act, I am certainly procedurally bound to this article, which was pointed out by the honourable colleague Krivic, and I will certainly touch myself further, but I must nevertheless make a few words to the law itself. On this occasion, both in terms of building legislation and in this area in the preceding paragraph, I would have somehow taken up an address in the media, which in those periods when this building legislation was adopted, a package of building legislation would have been adopted. This address was very interesting to me, namely, spatial and construction laws are in a certain direction as a cookbook. Why? Because excellent recipes do not yet mean excellent food, they depend on the one who cooks. As far as spatial and construction legislation is concerned, it is in the binding circumstances of the previous debate that indeed all the difficulties lie with those civil servants who are in charge of these procedures. The fact is, earlier, I may have been a little too self-sustaining to protect public servants who issue a building permit in this process, but I must admit that I am very critical. In particular, because, when construction law is directly used as a material provision, I agree with colleagues who, in the previous debate, indicated that each official can read slightly differently, judge, let alone in relation to the investor, to the designer, to an architect who somehow implements the user's own law. Here I can say that I am critical, because what was said, 58 administrative units, is slightly different between them. There is no very uniform practice, he works hard in this area, but what is for the investor or even for the builder — he is somehow disappointed. What is critical is also part of the Office, but mainly because of the longevity of the procedures, which are mainly linked to a variety of consents. In fact, we have a monument, we have water, and the environment would still be in place, and here I believe that some improvements will be needed in this part of the office for the better. For, with this Construction Act, if I can only complete this little general part, I very much welcome what the Minister presented in the opening presentation, and I estimate that one of the better issues of this law is that the municipal contribution is paid before the building permit is issued. I think this is a very great progress that is in favour of local communities. It is precisely in this segment that a number of abuses occur, because those who speak are therefore administrative procedures, executions and the like – we know that this is the letter of the law perfectly written, but in the execution itself these are inexhaustible matters in a number of cases. It is true that this is relatively, relatively not such a large amount in individual constructions, but in more complex cases it goes into hundreds that I will not speak thousands of euros. That is why this is a very good guide, especially in the direction of protecting local interests. Another thing where we are also going against investors by this law is to interfere with the so-called usable permit procedure, because not only with this procedure, but also with the cost to investors, it is a timeline. For the purpose of this law or amendment goes in the direction that from the beginning of the acquisition or application of the application of the building permit to the use of the space itself, whether residential, business or whatever, we must watch and ensure that this is as short a time as possible. One part of this for an investor is not only savings on funds, but it's also time. What is now a speech on this 43rd and amendment. I must admit that I am very much in the position of a respected colleague who has raised this question, that the purpose of this amendment is to, in the event of force majeure, earthquakes and the like, simply to establish the situation as it was. We must truly understand that certain objects, which have been in a location for decades or centuries, meet that in so-called unpopular neighbourly relations there is a relationship or distance between objects under the law that normally applies to new construction. It is certainly possible for those who, after a natural accident, happen in one way or another to collapse their home or business space, to have the opportunity to set up an identical location. That's how I understand this amendment. However, I hope and also wish that, in certain cases, the Office would adopt a different position that then, in this case, the State Department would follow this desire or the purpose of such an amendment. And I don't think there should be a problem here, because when an instalatory body, in this case, the department, takes a position, it should, as a rule, be considered a judicata for all 58 administrative units. I think that we Members will follow this very closely and also expect from the Ministry of State to unify some positions on the issue or resolution of building matters. However, what may have disturbed a respected colleague is something that must be acknowledged that the honourable Member Dr. Duck often reminds us that in such matters it is necessary to follow time and also take into account some changes that have an impact on the environment and the like. And this second part, which is written down, is completely understandable to me that, above all, in new constructions that are not in this context, as was previously said, the administrative authority must really follow and apply these so-called environmental standards substantially. That's how I understand this amendment. Thank you very much. Of course I support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Lord Daniel the Crimson, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thanks again for saying that. Thank you for some understanding, but I would like to hear the ministry's explanation once again, but since we are in the National Assembly, we are adopting a law that will then be in force in practice. Otherwise, I respect my colleague Verbic and his thinking that some superior authority will give some interpretation, but if we see that the law is not correctly written, it is only right to resolve this in the law. I will read to you again; Article 43 discusses the conditions for issuing a building permit, and then you, with the amendment, facilitate matters in the case of construction replacements in case of force majeure, which is correct. However, you exclude only the third indent or third condition, which says, "...the intended construction is in line with the rules which are the basis for the issue of opinions" – we are not solving anything. However, in Article 1 of this sentence, the construction complies with the provisions of the spatial implementing act in the works relating to the construction of buildings and with the provisions and regulations governing the regulation of premises. In this case, you will absolutely run into what already respected colleague Verbic found that the shifts will certainly not be appropriate. In this case, the matter stops and there is no substitute construction when you want it most and when someone wants to help someone who is affected by a natural disaster, one way or another. Do not wait for one “case”, as has been said, and someone will give instructions to an administrative authority or ministry in this case. I think that in law, if we are already making an exception, which I agree that it is right that it is introduced, given that we are talking or talking about how things are being handled in a better way, then the law must also be written so that it makes sense and that it has a beginning and an end and that it is, in practice, feasible. I therefore propose that the coalition here may complete this indent by the third reading and also exclude these conditions referred to in the first point, since otherwise this is impossible for the administrative authority. The second thing that has been said is that the advantage of this law, that the contribution is paid before the building permit is issued, was the same in the existing law, and I am glad that the coalition has understood this and that this solution is again in this amendment. And I'm surprised, and in some ways, I'm worried that you've unified or just ruled out the building permit for the demolition of objects. I think there are quite a few problematic objects in the space that, even in the event of disruption, which can be very simple, require some more serious treatment. Which brings down all the demolitions and writes that it's enough to just apply, I'm afraid it's a big playing field. I think, as you define in this exception, that for those objects that have a particular impact from the point of view or pollution, or anything in the case of some disruption, or that are significantly greater in gabarits than some normal disruption, there should also be a different procedure, not just a notification or a notification, because we know that this is probably a problem in practice. Again, I speak purely from a practical point of view, not to hinder all those normal demolitions, but in certain cases this will be a playing field, and also in cases of more demanding objects, which may cause bigger problems at the time of demolition, someone will make excuses, by law I need nothing and what you are now asking me, I have notified and – “Nobody”! So I point out some inconsistencies, somewhere excessively, I would say, liberalize – in the event of demolitions, I think, absolutely. By saying once again, I am not in favour of all the demolitions being subordinated to this, but it should be determined which should also be determined by some construction. On the other hand, in cases where this exception has to be legally so written that it is also practical, not only a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u65	The word is from Dr. France [[…]] I'm sorry, Dusan Verbich. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe it's more like a replica than a debate itself because I might be more understanding when I was discussing or advocating this amendment earlier. With regard to the content and interpretation of this amendment, I would still give this binding circumstance — the previous point, if you remember, I also mentioned, and this is literally a link in substantive thinking too. Because this so-called general part is excluded from the existing municipal spatial plans. Instead of this general work, it will now be decided by decrees to regulate the image of settlements and landscapes, because we know what jurisdiction these matters are in. What is important is that the existing municipal spatial plan, as I mentioned earlier, will become a literal implementing act defining the conditions. I believe that even in these cases, which we are talking about in terms of content, if there are fundamental accidents, because it will not be just ad hoc, but it will be a systemic approach that must be fast. That's definitely it. In your cases, it has proved to be as expected and in these further procedures or similar cases some experience applies. I think it will be even faster and more optimal, especially for those who have just been affected by these natural disasters. This means that in this context there will also be this kind of dilemma, at least as far as I'm concerned, this view will be resolved. I have no doubt that those who do not already reach the minimum conditions of departure and if there is a natural disaster, they will not put the same facility in the same place as they do now. But the other thing is, if you had in mind, would that person who happened to him put up a completely different gabarita or even purposefully, as far as the space itself is concerned. Then that's another story. Once again, I personally assess that this amendment favours to the same extent, in equal terms, an investor, the owner of a natural accident, irrespective of the deviations, could set up an object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u67	Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I appreciate and understand my colleague Verbich, even if he's trying to interpret it somehow. But look, you said yourself time is money. But I don't agree here if we start off with something -- if I say so in the human language -- half or three-quarters of it, because then some organ will explain it, because it's also wasting time and resources on people and so on, and I don't get to the very ground. I appreciate what Daniel has done now, because usually on this committee, the right hand versus me, when we start talking about protecting the environment and such matters. It seems to me that it is very dangerous in this kind of legislation, that the main flag with which the ministry passes is simplification, reduction. We need to ask ourselves why we have some procedures and what their purpose is. Of course, I also know that those first drafts of this law were "kill God," in fact, they were such that those who could come, who would have money, who would have some connection – vuf. Of course we can't kill an investor, but you know if you're going to Austria to invest, but it's very clear what kind of stuff they are, what kind of material you're going to put on the roof and also a much greater responsibility of an architect and someone else. And that's not where we're going to rob. I mean, the key problem with this legislation is also what is also the fault of politics to the best extent that most people in Slovenia represent democracy, as the Styrians would say: What are you doing? And if you're going to look at our beautiful villages, cities, up, down, up close, I apologize, these are "coopers", urban, architectural and often dangerous, and the minister herself said, I quote her when you mentioned here why this law; the safety of the facilities, the protection of the environment, the cultural heritage, the appearance of the environment and the settlements. [[...]] If you have a serious conversation, the appearance of the environment and the settlements also generates you very much, how you have public passenger traffic, what infrastructure you have. Why do Swiss cities look the way they look – because in the early 1980s they decided to optimize railways in public passenger transport. Because they said that except for a few people on the Alma, they would optimize, so that every citizen would have less than 30 minutes to his first train station, because they had already begun to engage in what we call modal split in the profession, switching from one vehicle to another. This legislation is also linked to this. So that I would not smoke too much time now, Daniel showed very well that in this case some simplifications should not go too far. I don't know. Now I've got an earthquake in my head, and it's gonna tear down a third of the Great Mountain. This would be such an example of, say, natural disasters, where there will be so much to clean up, and we will keep, Madam Minister, the cultural heritage, the environment, the appearance of the settlement, and we will probably need construction. And again, I appeal, if we've gone crazy to this point, let's drive normally, let's have another reading at the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u69	I see there's no more interest in seeing that there is. [[…]] Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u70	Dear Vice-President of this National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister of this important area of the environment in the Republic of Slovenia, welcome to all! Let me first touch this point of this construction law. We have heard many times in the National Assembly today, but already on the committees that we are talking about one threesome and here I very much agree with the President of our Infrastructure Committee, who also said today that this is a very important area in the Republic of Slovenia. I feel that these three laws, or threes, as we call them, are not mature enough to be on the benches of the National Assembly. That's my opinion. First of all, let me touch two of the things in this construction law, mentioned by my colleague, Mr Daniel Krivec. I certainly cannot agree with myself that it should be lifted in order to delete the building permit for the demolition of buildings from this proposal. This I think is an important, often very difficult area, and I firmly believe, even with some experience in the past, that it is wrong that this new bill no longer carries it with it. On the other hand, it is also important, and I must point out this, and it has already been exposed today, as it once was in the past and today, that the municipal contribution is paid before the building permit is issued. I think it's an important segment and it's right to stay. Such a respected minister, all present in the National Assembly and those who accompany us through the media, when we first started talking about this threesome, if I could call it that, for a while, I was happy that something would change in this important area in Slovenia. Why was I so happy? Because I see in the National Assembly how many of my colleagues and colleagues who have a lot of experience in the past, or in the area of running the local community, I have in mind the mayors, the mayors, we also have the chief of the largest administrative unit, we have architects; in short, we have people who have a lot of experience from the past and experience of how these three important segments have worked poorly in the past. Dear Minister, I hope you don't mind. Here I also mean you, you were the mayor of one of the major municipalities in Slovenia, you were in the workplace where building permits are issued, so that my joy at the beginning was certainly justified. See, this important segment of the three laws, we brought in parallel to the National Assembly by signing – I think yesterday was the signing – of contracts with Magna. This was a clear indicator because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to adopt a special law for this investment that something was wrong. The distinguished minister, of course your colleague, said yesterday about the economy that Magna, this large company, is getting nothing but what all other investors who come from abroad as well as Slovenia are getting, and that he will make sure that this is equal for domestic investors as well. I don't think those sentences are going to fall on fertile soil for a long time. Why do I say that? Because today, as I said at the outset, we have these three important segments. Dear Minister, President of the Infrastructure Committee. Today, it was often apparent that some Members went home, that we even dreamed and that we had, I don't know, slept, we found some of them because they didn't participate in this meeting, that they were in their offices, that they were monitoring it from the office. But look, sometimes – I think we've learned something in life – if we don't make a good product, then it's better to stop things and not keep working. Why am I saying this so everyone will understand me? Why did I mention you, Madam Secretary, and the chairman of the committee? In the book of amendments, 250 pages long, that the amendments were still in force yesterday, I have doubts that there will be more amendments to the congregations when the law is in force. What was the most worrying? That within the largest coalition client they have experts, and these experts in particular make their amendments, and colleagues with whom they sit together each day do not press the “for” button. Here I think the main argument is that in this threesome there is a lot wrong. That's what my colleagues on the left, on the right, on the front said, with their experiences that these three segments, when you get them into force, will knock each other. It is not right that we are people with so much experience here, but now I don't mean myself, my colleagues on the left and right, you, the distinguished minister, the mayor, and in the workplace where you issued building permits – I know, I am sure that you have met many times with problems that of course go to the detriment of those who would invest in our country. Of course, we live in a period when you get to one company – and I speak positively when we talk about Magna – when it is in no way clear to them that for someone the road is open, without any obstacles, of course those who have employees who want to make contracts are financially capable, the bank trusts them, and they are waiting for procedures for a year, two, three, four, five. When they despair, this investment moves within the European Community, but unfortunately across the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. I am therefore surprised, despite the fact that many of these here are aware that these three important segments are being raped and that you want them to be put into effect at all costs. Of course, many will no longer be in this hall, but people, entrepreneurs, individuals in the Republic of Slovenia will face many problems. We had the opportunity to make these three segments of quality, but unfortunately there was no listening. But I still have a question about where these pressures, of course your fellow workers, from the outside, have taken you so far, that even at the cost of people having problems, this law, in three segments, wants to get through this National Assembly at all costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much, colleagues. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Let me just go on with my discussion in the previous, first construction law, and I will now proceed with the following with a justification for why these three are extending procedures and not shortening. The construction law is increasing the administration, with very clearly very specific reference to the number of public employees in the new 25 public officials in the inspection work in two years, and the number of public officials in the administrative units will be increased in line with their annual recruitment and employment plan. This is also said to be an increase – well, seven employees are transferred to the Ministry to carry out an environmental impact assessment. It's only for two years. This is said if we increase administration, of course it costs, on the other hand we extend the procedures. This is clearly stated in this law. If we were to shorten procedures, then we would reduce certain matters, and we are only spreading here, we are only increasing public works and, of course, also by this public spending of budgetary money. These financial effects, in particular this building law, are also very interesting, where the explanation states for the financial consequences – I speak for the municipalities – that the financial consequences of this title are negligible. That's what you call it. It's not valued. On the other hand, I am looking at the comments of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, where they are clearly very specific and opposed to the financial consequences of the municipalities where you attribute positive effects to them, this is called enormous revenue. This is what I am connecting now, if I link that there will now be a huge increase in the inspection service, that it is a repressive approach, that is a clear sign: the citizens of open wallets, beware. I quote the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, where it is stated that only in open inspection matters, which are Circus 500 representing 5 per cent of the inspection cases, simple projects of the facilities should have a positive financial impact on the municipalities for 31 million. These are the comments of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. And then, according to incomplete statistics, which is actually inaccurate and misleading, where the expected increase in the revenue of the municipalities is forecast, as foreseen by the law for 2018, 128 million. Which is very questionable. These are very large numbers, and it is now quite suddenly that the municipalities are supposed to be solving all inspection matters and, consequently, such large financial revenues. This anger is incomprehensible to me, and I do not know where the Community of Congregations has collected so much revenue because I believe that it will cost the congregations. This needs to be done, it needs to be retrained, it needs to be employed by appropriate inspection municipal inspectors. So, Minister, I would really ask for an explanation – because we know that there is no actual accurate data, there is no statistics, and where exactly high amounts are mentioned, which are supposed to be the revenue of the municipalities – whether they hold it or not. I'd like a comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u73	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you. Perhaps you would answer first for these financial effects. The fact is that, as already mentioned in the speech, we are allowing legalisation, namely the legalisation of built buildings that are older than the date, which means that this legalisation is envisaged for a number of objects. So far, it has not been possible to legalise them, and we remember that we have been working in municipalities on specific PUPs that have talked about the legalisation of many facilities, and later it has been shown that some of those involved in these PUPs have been able to legalise, but we somehow estimate that these legalizations were very small and different in municipalities, and for the whole of Slovenia about 10 percent. This means that facilities where special conditions are allowed and the adoption of the construction law, the construction law, could be legalised and, of course, municipalities would receive a municipal contribution. At the time of legalisation, a municipal contribution must be settled and municipalities also receive half of the funds allocated to the compensation for the usurpation of the premises. If I am speaking now compared to the current legalisations, where, of course, objects are allowed to be legalised, these facilities must now comply with the provisions of spatial acts. Therefore, the legalisation envisaged for longer-lasting facilities up to 1. 1. 1998 However, this compatibility with the spatial act is not so defined that it would not be possible to legalise sites situated on land that are not defined by a spatial act as unpaved building plots. We believe that this will benefit many of these people when citizens can legalise objects. In fact, after the purpose of these facilities, we leave enough open space, so legalisation, if we are talking about the need to obtain a building permit for many buildings, of course, is enough. However, these municipal contributions or the legalization of non-requisitive buildings for which there is no need to obtain a building permit at all. These are simple objects. With regard to simple objects, it is practical — if I am allowed to talk about my practice, which I hope to say was very varied — that is, simple objects are usually objects that people set up with their property or with their apartment buildings. It is not often that someone challenges a neighbor to set up a garage or a roof or some kind of garden shed that is a simple object. So if these objects are larger, then it is necessary to obtain a building permit for an unsolicited facility. Also, reporting such simple facilities to our state inspection is not much. It is true, however, that, to the extent that the state inspectorate has to do on the ground, simple objects have rarely come into line at all. And I repeat; therefore, simple objects must, in fact, reflect only whether they are in accordance with the spatial act. You alone, if these Medo-Chinese inspection services are established, I do not imagine that new staff should be employed by the municipalities because there is really no need. But in some cases, of course, these simple objects are quite large. If we just turn to the advertising boards and in some environments these simple objects are large. They are usually also on municipal roads or even on the territory of the congregation and, in fact, this task of regulating the layout of these boards is already moving away from the action of the inspectors at all. If we are talking about our country of inspection, i.e. the construction inspection, and the new jobs we are expecting, I must say this: now the existing structure of inspectors is practically solving only complaints. We know these complaints are not a small number of them. And we are seriously changing this practice by means of a new construction law. I don't want to use any special terms, because then they can come back to me as something negative, but we're actually going to the building application system. This means that even when such a construction application begins, the inspector is informed of the construction. Which means, of course, that buildings or building spaces, or caves, where someone illegally begins some operations, can visit immediately at the beginning and make such an investor stop immediately, but not, as was now in practice, that the inspector usually reached illegal construction when the investment was completed. In implementation, we have a spatial information system in the experimental operation of Slovenia, where data for individual parcels are already being entered, for investors and where building permits are already being issued. Thus, inspections are already being reported in their area where new construction is under way. After the implementation of the construction law, this beginning of the construction work will have to be registered on the administrative unit and this information will also be entered into this entry. Since the inspectors have to complete the old procedures, they have to follow these new constructions, we have foreseen 25 new inspectors, because we do not want their work to be done, or the procedures under way to be completed. I think we've solved this mess here with the inspection services. I would like to say, however, that the indication that all municipalities are against the inspection of the construction of simple buildings – I do not accept this. I know about many municipalities, not only the municipalities, even the smaller municipalities, we walk in the field, we talk to the mayors, and because there is not such a strong policy, but more content, the mayors say they will not have any problems, and they agree that this goes into their jurisdiction. Especially because simple objects are not the subject of conflict in many environments. Usually simple objects are the subject of a dispute if they are placed or if they are standing by the roads, for example, the transparency of roads prevents or are placed on land not owned by the object that has been installed there. I am so sure that in this part we will realize the predictions we have made in the drafting of the laws. Therefore, in a political sense, I understand that it cannot be said that someone has prepared something well because it is politically unacceptable, but it is true that there is a great deal of effort in this law, in preparing it, even in the Act on the regulation of premises and also in the Act on architectural activities. However, I must also say that the Secretary of State and I, who have met with this issue in previous services – and I can't blame anyone and, of course, I don't need to, and I thank you for saying that we are or that this work has been worth all the effort. I am sure of this, and I am sure that many will find in implementation those solutions that have not been made possible by the legislation so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u75	The word is from Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I am listening to this, that somehow Mrs Minister said that we are politicising on other levels here, somehow not Pa with any exception from Comrade Zorčič, I have not heard any of us today that I would speak so inadvertently to anyone else, let alone to the subject of marriage. [[…]] In what is the heart of the problem, Bojan said very nicely in his calm way, as if our Matthew, if he were to deal with it. Frankly, the three of us don't live that far apart, Bojan, and I, and Bojan is also a mayor, and very much involved in the local environment, I can admit, with a lot of what the SDS says and does, but works in the National Assembly, I don't agree, but you have quite a few good mayors and parishioners, hat down, and you're doing it well now. Esde's expert looks at me strangely, and I think they're gonna beat me up, but that's something to be said. Now, if the three of you would invite me all the rest of you here, for one van, including Comrade Zorčič, someone will now think that we are madly confused – we are not! We go on a business trip, we normally think about everything, but I don't know why we have to talk like that here. And we would meet, I don't know, and we'd come to visit you, Madam Minister, at your home, and we'd have had some rittosnonosts, something to eat, and we'd certainly agree with what Bojan said was bad. Just as it is poorly introduced, it is not well thought out and the next minister or minister who will cover this area will step into large and heavy shoes and have to fix it. I'm not going to blame you now. You are on a practical level, of course, a much bigger expert on this than I am, and I hope to say to myself, if you would like to admit that you would intimately acknowledge what we all seem to be saying well-intentionedly here. I would touch on the legalization issues; I would rather say, good, because there are good things in the law. I.D.'d. Okay, I've been a doctor, I've been asking myself, a letter, what you've been doing for 20 years -- whoever it was. This is more critical of others, not of you who have fallen into it. Of course, the possibility of legalization, the extension of some building inspection powers. I agree here, but we have to ask ourselves why we have what I said – hens. And I don't want to be insulting to people. We had that Jóbinski marriage, we never had a serious housing policy. We still don't have any policies for less than 40 years. My generation, if you studied a little, you had to put in books, and then with loans in Swiss, you solved these stories, because now he's giving me a job there; and the job doesn't say that four banks have raised 7 million for counter-propaganda, and they're taking you to lunch – and from SMC, somewhere else. I have to mention that, too. We do not, we have never had any serious architectural advice for most citizens and citizens who, of course, cannot afford an architect. Architects are also doing something under the price. And this is this responsibility, if you want, and the professions and policies for what I call the henhouse; they are also determined to be staticly dangerous, not just aesthetically ugly, small-scale and so on, that I will not go too far. If someone listens to this, they think, "Well, because of all this because it didn't work out, but ha, they're probably going to beat Zorčič again at the end of the day, but now I have to legalize it, they're going to pick up my money for those mopeds there, and now they're going to give me for, I don't know, "hizl," they'd say in Styrian. No, it's not funny, actually. Some answer was to my colleague Ljubo, but, uh, these pennies come from some legalizations. O.K. We really need to figure out once in this society and in this country whether anyone can work in the space they want. You know, even private property is not absolutely untouchable. We had a fine example in Styria, when one bomb then brought there from its field to the home yard, and we had you know, it also costs at last. [[…]] If one went to count this, and also what Ljubo said, the valuation of the financial consequences. I was most appalled after a few weeks in the National Assembly that no one here really talks about money. It's all kind of scheming, and there's only once a third of them in power, but I think if we think about how much time and money such reckless legislation is going to cost if we push it forward, we should think about it. And you have some Slovenian citizens and citizens who are studying applied math, useful mathematics somewhere abroad, and an economics related to mathematics, and maybe a couple of these people should be employed in this byte, not just at the Ministry of Finance, who would be able to calculate it for us, but they would say, "Wait, my dears, that's not it, it's going to cost us so much millions. In fact, in this context, we should think. Of course, I'm a little difficult here because I'm just trained to think that way. My parents taught me the state budget. Is that right? Yes! And when they say what you're up to. I have to say this. I'm not a good politician, and I'll never be. I probably don't know if I'll ever be on that scale of some kind. Our amendment, if I actually have a word, would also explain Article 109. It was in this area of legalisation that we went to see essentially that these things needed to be narrowed down a little bit. To help a man who has not been given the conditions of goods by the state to make a Some village community made the pubs there so they could throw in a basket if I put it that way. In the second part of the amendment, however, the fact is that we cannot legalise certain objects, which are an aircraft carrier, if I metaphorically put it, nor should we, because we are in breach of European law, European law, which is, of course, an integral part of our law. In particular, through the provision of Article 114, paragraph 4, which in effect precludes the response of the affected. Here is the issue and issue of this law, where it is possible for me to be specific from others, we do not agree in Levica with the integration of the construction permit process and environmental consensus. It's no excuse that it takes too much time. Let's watch! Why can't bureaucrats communicate, and where does this gap come from? But you know, because then something happens to us again, or Kemis or something like that, and then we're going to populism here, and then we're going to pass out why it happened to us. In fact, we're going to do this on our own — but you know! Even if we talk about simple objects, the congregations themselves are difficult because they do not have money. Even Koprivnikar, I don’t know, prefers to work with someone else, I don’t know if he has any time, at least so it shows that he knows what the financial problems of the congregations are; or he knows that he doesn’t want to know, he would also need such advice. After all, it's also very common objects. The economy should also be attached here. Linking architectural counseling and, if you want, also the cooperatives of the five pits that will do to you, here is a typical Slovenian story, some roof for the car, that it will have a "butt and head", as it is called in the language of the people. That's how this legislation should be thought. But we are light years of this kind of thinking. And I very much agree, first of all, I have said that I would like to stop this altogether, but I very much agree with those who have more experience directly from local self-government, that we should actually change here what we need, which blocks some of our local developments and this legislation part of us in here, part of us others, much more weighedly forward. Because the way this is going to work out is essentially irresponsible. It is irresponsible for all of us, because we all live in the environment and space, it is irresponsible of what you have been saying, what the basic purpose of this law should be. And yes, the landing of the coalition – or, in fact, because only SMC is advertised – is actually up to the work of Parliament. A serious piece of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. I was gonna wait for one amendment, but it looks like I'm not gonna wait, but I just dropped by. In the New Slovenia Group, we set ourselves up in a programme to continue to adopt spatial acts in Slovenia within half a year and to obtain building permits within one month. As far as spatial legislation is concerned, ZureP-2, I have already told you what our position is, and what we have here today is certainly not going to work in this time frame. Our view is that we will still have to make substantial changes and do more in this law. With regard to this construction law, however, given how it was initially presented, I must commend that the amendments and amendments also introduced that part of the legalisations – which is very commendable – to simplify procedures, which is also, I think, a step in the right direction. I have little concern about how implementation will take place, given that how administrative units will react to this, because so many of the objects that need to be legalised since this Article is in the transitional provisions would be considered to be hasty because the State also needs records for the Real Estate Tax Act. I have little concern about how this, how it will be handled, how there will be sub-legal acts, some remain, some will probably have to be adjusted, but it is commendable, I agree with the debaters that the municipalities will have a few more costs in controlling these simple facilities, and they will also have a lot of revenue with the legalisation of municipal contributions, which can significantly accelerate the construction of municipal infrastructure which is lacking, which is very [[…]] With regard to our vision of solving this problem, I think that this is a step, both the control of the congregation over simple objects, in the direction that over time it is likely that the state will entrust the issue of building permits to the municipalities, because it must have a urbanist in the previous law, which is already, I think, a step in the right direction. That they have in the congregations a competent expert so that it can then be entrusted to the congregation also with the task of issuing building permits that they have in neighbouring countries. And less involvement of the state in this problem in putting it into space. Because in neighbouring countries – what we said before – it goes in one year that things are simplified, that these general guidelines of individual space regulators are also more specific, not as they are now, when individual workers of these space regulators then imagine that I will not yet have additional conditions, and refuse and need supplements, which is also necessary in this process. [[...]] In the parliamentary group, we will support the law and we will wait carefully for the implementation in practice. It is likely that something else needs to be corrected, complemented, but it is certainly a step in the right direction as far as documentation is concerned, so with the use of the permit — there are many good things in it. However, if we went this way to confide in the congregations over time, it would probably be a step even better and faster to resolve this problem, so that we do not have objects built in black or in disharmony. I think that control would be much better than it is today, because the congregation is closer to people and when the inspection is also partially qualified to control it, it is a small step towards further training for something else. What saddens me, though, is that these municipal roads are not in some way processed in these laws in order to resolve this too. But we will soon, apparently, have on the sidelines of the law that the State Council has passed. This, I think, should be resolved in this package, in order to get rid of it, because there will be serious problems for the congregations. So I hope that this law will be reopened again soon, and perhaps at the beginning of the next term things will improve further. I'll check in with you later on with some amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo. No, I'm sorry, Bojan Podróšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President, once again for your word. Dear Minister, I listened to you very carefully. If the biggest problem is the road table, then there is no problem. I confess to you all the positive things in the previous office, like mayors, like in the administrative unit. Your fellow workers must have worked hard too; no doubt you would not have believed. But of course, it's not always said that if you do a lot of work, you do everything right. I'm saying that on this segment, on these benches, there would be no good law. Maybe I'm wrong. Now, my invitation to the public. Maybe I'm wrong, and I'm prepared to apologize to you in the National Assembly. I come from an environment where there are many entrepreneurs, and the problems I talk about are talked about every day. I invite you publicly, I will invite three large companies that employ at least 100 employees, but I kindly ask you to take your time and if this legislation saves these companies so that they can build to hope to sign a contract with a foreign company, then I will apologize to you in this national assembly. Once again; my public invitation, you will set a day and an hour, I will of course invite Slovenian successful companies from my end, I do not know from Dolenjska, I do not know from Brežice, Kopra, but if this threesome is pursuing goals similar to the Magna project, then I will apologize to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Madam Secretary, please. Mrs. Irene Maycen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Podkorishek, I accept your invitation. Otherwise, I'd rather have them visit us. But no, we're going to do it in a neighboring congregation, and I have to admit that I've got a few things going on like this, and it's not that hard for me. The Municipality of Slovenske Konjice does not yet have an OPN. But if he has it, it's even better and easier, because then the solutions can be sought faster. I remember myself doing the work of a cadastral agronomist on the industrial zone, which was still completely unwalled at the time – I hope it is different now. So I'd love to! [[…]] But there's something else I'd like to say about the rescues. I propose that I process this subject, but I admit that it has somehow withdrawn from me in the previous implementation. Indeed, the current issue of building permits is not so much a matter of implementation plans, but it is, in a somewhat in-depth sense, a location check. Of course, there is no need for such a location check when issuing a building permit for demolition. The fact is, under the existing law, we have issued building permits for demolition, and now these owners of the demolition facilities have been resolved. However, it is prescribed to report the start of removal. This is the process in which I say that it is introduced into the spatial information system, that it is also activated in the inspection services, that this process is known to be in progress or intended to be carried out. The removal plan shall be submitted when the start of the decommissioning is notified. I agree that for some smaller ones, especially for non-requisitional objects of such a plan, there is of course not much, while in our space larger objects and, of course, the demolition can also be dangerous, dangerous for neighbouring objects, for the environment, and this removal plan must be submitted. At the time of demolition, however, the supervisor’s cooperation is required, so that the building permit itself does not allow someone to crash an object, but all these prescribed procedures must be carried out. We have done our utmost to include municipal roads in this existing law. I believe that we have not saved everything, but it is unusual to think that municipal roads belong to the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is mainly because I have seen the proposal of the Law of the State Council, and in that proposal of the Law, it is the ILO who registers or sets out to change roads. I hope you won't mind, but I would still say that roads, road bodies belong under the auspices of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Ours, namely the Ministry of Environment and Space, are watercourses and we have arranged this year, which is within our competence, of course it is also nature, and as the infrastructure of the municipal road is not, they belong under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure. This does not mean that we do not solve some of the problems involved in obtaining a building permit in this construction law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 109 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Left Group for a new 109.a. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Dr. Keating. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Because I have for quite some time, I have already defined very fairly in the human language We are just here this process of legalization putting into some railing so that it will not allow any exceptions when it legalizes what should not actually be legalised. [[…]] That's actually it. Since I have a little more time, I'm gonna use that for two things. The pollution of the environment and the advertising area in Slovenia has crossed all limits of any common sense. Very pronounced in Ljubljana, and this is not such a banal problem. Secondly, what the Minister said at the end clearly shows that I would need a joint Ministry of Infrastructure, Environment and Space, but probably with an internal KPC, if I may put it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you. I myself would like to respond to the amendment proposal for Article 109a. I admit that we do not support it at the Ministry of Environment and Space, not because it was filed by the Left, but because in our opinion it is too narrowing down the legalisation of non-compliant objects. Housing buildings are, of course, right to be included, and they are, and then, if we go immediately to unclaimed non-residential agricultural buildings, this narrowing is already very strong, because non-requisitional buildings can only be to a certain dimension and practically then to agricultural buildings, not to mention any buildings where there is or is going to be a course for businesses, so that production processes in them are the Third indent, non-requiremental facilities for sport, recreation and leisure are also to an extent, if they are unrequited, so small that it means that they cannot legalise any major sports facilities. [[…]] Our dictatorship does not prescribe this minimisation, and as I said, we do not support this 109.a article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u88	This time, I agree with the Minister, although it is rarer, but this time I will also oppose this amendment. Because it really narrows it down, the French, because here you also throw out walls, which are economic buildings, and partly have housing units for occasional stay. There's about 10,000 of that in the bottom, and you're throwing it out. And also where he has an inspection decision, you know that the inspectors only go where the applications are. In the case of the person who was registered, the inspector did not determine whether this facility could be built there, but was illegally built, had no building permit and first warned that the time limit for this to be settled if, after a spatial act of the municipality, it is not possible to legalise it. And then, for a while, the practice of the inspectors was that the municipality made a statement that the spatial act was in a change, in the stage that it waited a little longer, because there were few such cases, then it had to issue a decision. This decision has already restricted the fact that the municipality or municipality should not have connected this facility to the water supply system and, after this amendment, could not have legalised it. And could this facility be exactly like the next door where there was no application, or would someone report someone out of the nostrils, and then we get into that relationship, you know, when two are the same house, one of the gypsies, and one of the doctors -- which is worth more? I'd say from a doctor, but it's not true, it's worth more than a gypsy because he's got a doctor next door and a gypsy doctor. That's the difference. But here, someone was registered, someone wasn't registered, and someone could use someone to report it on purpose, if you did, and now I'm legalizing it, and you're not gonna do it because I signed you up. The objects are legalized, not the owners, and if the object is corrected, even if it had this decision, thank God it did not pay, but the usurpation will have to pay both. It is said that some penalty for going into this procedure will be, and in practice it is necessary to be lifelike and I am happy that these procedures will start because the municipalities have the municipal decisions so adopted that they must not join the municipal infrastructure if they do not have the building permit or the use permit, now that the usable permit will be sufficient because it is happening – at least when I was mayor, I wanted to build as much as possible on the dispersed displacement of the water line because the healthy drinking water is more important, including an object where the possibility of connection to the water is significantly more valuable, even if there is no electricity, the electricity can be replaced where the temporary stay is and the water cannot be replaced. [[…]] This is also said by those who deal with the real estate market, that if it is written in, it has a water supply, it is a substantially different price. However, the problem is that you have to pull such a pipe, including for fire safety, and at certain distances, then legally place fire safety hydrants and in such pipes, if there is less of them occasionally, the water can stand in there for a few weeks and become objectionable. If you take a sample on a tap, it is objectionable, and the congregation must provide healthy drinking water. This is said to be better water, if more are connected, because it is fresh, it is known that the most quality water is in the twelve hours from the source itself to the tap, to ingestion, and here also after this pay will be saved. However, this legislation will also contribute greatly to promising activities such as tourism. We have tourism in the walls in Dolenjska and there is a huge problem. There were also European funds, we could draw them out, and the project of 50 new buildings had to be covered in order to do so, and under this legislation, which was by no means possible to provide a usable permit, which is the basis for you to report an economic activity on the site. Tourism is on the move with us, we see that it has increased enormously in Ljubljana and in cities, and there is also a great interest in rural areas. But you can't go in the walls of tourism if you don't have healthy drinking water. Without that, you just can't do it. They also claim that they are already dealing with it. There are many possibilities here, the demand is greater than the offer, several times higher, but it was also said in the preparation of the law that the preparers were in contact with those who organise such tourism, so that this will also be practically satisfactory with these user permits. Because a tourist doesn't need any, I don't know, five stars or five apples, or whatever, objects, some even prefer older ones, simple ones, to spend the night in the building, and then mostly these tourists visit tourist sites from Croatia, let's say from Dolenjska to Plitvice to Triglav, I don't know where else. They are mainly apartments to sleep in, and they are very happy if they can be in the country, alone, not in some apartments such as elsewhere, and on the other hand there is also the possibility of provision on tourist farms, in rural taverns and so on. For all this is better, and I am glad that this marriage will bring about this too. At the same time, if these objects go into some kind of marketing, they will give some income, and there is a greater hope that there will be fewer growths, that people will process and thus preserve the cultural landscape. We know that this is one of the great riches we still have in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u90	Since I still have a little bit of time, I know that we're not going to agree on legalisation with my colleague Laho, but what he said shows even more that we need and reform local self-government and the debate about regions, because, indeed, we have too much hands on the back of the municipalities. [[…]] I will say so, you know, here I come from my profession, legalization with corrective measures – mostly people are not guilty, more guilty is some bastard who wants to do a lot of business to have the situation he has. Then you have a good neighbor, because you kind of said it very nicely, but here I'm talking counseling, we've had, I'm old enough, some type of buildings up and down, but I'll tell you very personally. I know him, my personal friend is a gentleman who is an Austrian citizen, one of the leading European boar architects. He also worked in Slovenia, up and down. We've probably got a few of our own, let's bring people in, let's make some type of development, let's let people help. Because like I said, when someone listens to this, you're gonna be tough on this, and for a quarter of a century, you didn't have some kind of professional support that you should have. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u92	I have some time left and I think it's interesting. Typical of us in Dolenjska was, you know, an object 5 times 7 or 6 times 8 with economic work on the ground floor and then living in the mansards, those bad 50 square meters. This was some type of key, it was built on agricultural land, and it has to be on the building. I am also a little afraid, for if it is a building plot, the congregation is obliged to furnish it with communal equipment. If it is on building land, this land will also be worth more, it will be a little more expensive after the property tax. I fear that these building sites will be where the facilities are, so much so that legalisation will not require it to be fully communally equipped, but that they will not then be obliged, because they will have a useful permit, some will settle, because there is a great demand for young families in particular to go into nature, they have 50 square meters of residential or residential space enough, because in Ljubljana there are many fewer and worse conditions, but it is significantly more expensive. These people also need to be provided with infrastructure, and we, a few municipalities, have already brought optics into the building blocks. Some wonder when they're not in the city of optics, but in the building. But that was what the congregations agreed on at a certain time, and we also made use of European funds at that time. At the time, most wondered what I would need, but now they are not surprised, not even the younger ones, because they can work from home. A lot of people already work from home, don't even drive to work, and there'll be more. But if this young family is still working on this apartment of yours and you've come to the pot to support the landscape, it's even more beautiful. I think that we need to work on this to have the countryside processed, that it will be settled, but of course it is expensive to stay with all the municipal infrastructure, other than in a block where 20, 30 families are connected to one channel, I'll say, sewerage, but that's different there. It's moving slowly in this area, too, just too slowly. Even when they once told in New Town at the commune how they would start to build sewers over vineyards, I began to laugh that it would not, and it probably would not be worth it. First of all, no one would allow the vineyard to dig the sewers and tear down the walls. Secondly, it is socially unacceptable, but it is also appropriate to arrange this if people live there, and it is already being done. And these legalizations and these municipal contributions will come in handy to make this work. Maybe more in the countryside than in some places.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate on this article? Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 112 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 114 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 116 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 121 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for an architectural and engineering law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Irena Majcen. Minister of Environment and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr Primož Hainz, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The area of regulation of architectural and engineering activities and assembly arrangements is currently part of the Construction Act. The proposal for a law exempts this matter from the Construction of Buildings Act and proposes its separate regulation as regulated in most other European countries. In addition to the objective of greater comparability of regulation in this area with other European countries, the objectives of the 10th government strategic project, the redesign of regulated professions and activities are also achieved through the adoption of the law. Therefore, in particular by better regulation, pooling regulated professions and professions within them brings a smaller number of regulated professions than the current legislation and thus retains only 4 more regulated professions in place of the existing 10 regulated professions: an authorised architect, an authorised engineer, an authorised landscape architect and an authorised spatial planner. The draft law follows the principles of transparency, clarity and certainty of the conditions for the conduct of professions and activities, the responsibilities of authorised architects and engineers, their independence and independence, the representation of competent professional chambers, non-discrimination, the economy of procedures, the protection of the public interest and consumer protection. For each regulated profession, the draft law lays down in detail the conditions for obtaining powers, defines professional tasks and proposes the protection of titles for individual regulated professions. With a view to enhancing the quality of the provision of architectural and engineering services, the law, while preserving acquired rights as a novelty, prescribes in particular mandatory continuing professional training, professional supervision of professional chambers, a second bologna level as an entry condition for the acquisition of professional titles and the reduction of conditions with regard to the required practical experience for two years. It is proposed to regulate the activity and establish a link between the performance of the profession and the activity, namely the prescribed means of providing the profession or services, employment or ownership of experts in the economic operator. The conditions of liability insurance for damage and the absence of bankruptcy proceedings are more stringent. An additional one-year adjustment period is foreseen for existing economic operators and their adaptation to additional requirements. The possibility of optional protection of the title for economic operators is also envisaged if they fulfil even more stringent conditions, allowing a reference list of economic operators with a higher degree of independence and thus a higher quality of services. The amendments adopted on the parent committee have resulted in a number of improvements, in particular of the nomotechnical nature, as well as urgent substantive additions, in particular in the work relating to transitional provisions or to the preservation of acquired rights under the applicable legislation. In the second reading, several additional amendments by members of coalition parties relating to acquired rights and to the conditions for obtaining rights in accordance with the new law have also been tabled in the form of additional amendments to the law, which are necessary to further clarify the rights acquired and the conditions for exercising those rights during the transitional period. Since the amendments tabled in the second reading are to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, we propose that a third consideration of the law be held at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Danil Anton Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u96	Dear President, Honourable Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the SMC and Desus Group are on board 29. 9. Submit a proposal to the amendment committee for a bill. In its supplementary explanation, the Minister for Environment and Space Irena Majcen, on behalf of the proposer, stated that the draft law follows the principles of transparency, clarity and certainty of the conditions for the performance of the professional activities of the responsible authorised architects, engineers, their autonomy, independence and representativeness. It lays down the conditions for the conduct of professional activities in this field, including the organisation and functioning of the two competent professional chambers, namely the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. The regulation of this area is exempted from the current Construction Act and regulated in a stand-alone law. The proposal for a law continues to implement a government strategic project for the transfer of regulated professions and activities, its recommendations on the rules of procedure are being implemented, take into account professional initiatives to regulate this area and take into account the requirements of European legislation relating to the recognition of professional qualifications and services in the internal market. Minister Irena Majcen also pointed out that, while retaining the rights acquired as a novelty, the proposal prescribes in particular mandatory permanent professional training under the programme and rules adopted by the competent chamber, the possibility of disciplinary action by the Chambers, as well as the extraordinary reinstatement of the professional supervision of the Chambers, which will enable more effective disciplinary proceedings against infringements of the rules of the profession and the ethical code. The second rate of Bologna will be the entry condition for obtaining the authorisation. However, in the organisation of both professional chambers, the proposal of the law largely preserves the rules in force and does not provide for major changes. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the proposals of SMC and Desus' parliamentary groups for amendments to the Committee were satisfactory in referring most of the comments made in their written opinion. The representative of the Council of State said that the State Council supported the proposal for a law, but with support nevertheless highlighted the warnings of associations of municipalities relating to the conditions for carrying out spatial planning tasks and the fact that the proposal allows authorised engineers to carry out their business as public servants on behalf of and for the account of the body in which they are employed, which is not intended for authorised engineers in the field of geodesy. Mag. Barbara Škraba Flis of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia said that the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia supports the proposal of the law. Representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia mag. Vekoslav Korošec said that they support the bill with reservation. Their comments relate in particular to the provision of Article 6 which does not allow for transparent continuous vocational training, the conditions of which should be prescribed by the State, Article 14 (the role of engineering companies in the investment process) and Article 58 (the recognition of acquired education). The representative of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, Aleš Prijon, stressed that they support the law. The main effort of the Chamber is to ensure quality professional solutions, to protect public interest in the area of space regulation and building, the bill is good and will contribute positively. There was no debate on individual articles, amendments and amendments to the Committee's amendments. The Committee adopted its proposed amendments and the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 4. Thus, the amendments of the Left Group to Articles 8, 9, 14 and the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 55 have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general discussion at its 31st meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 17 October 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I'd be very happy if those amendments that we have to put into Levican would not be. Why? Because this means that in the National Assembly, in the ministries and in the government, we would think a little more seriously about people doing some activity. Now we have this three, we're going in a row: what we're going to do with space, how we're going to build, demolish, restore, and how we're going to regulate the people doing this. We probably understand that this is an area of activity where we need to regulate our professions. We also need it elsewhere because you deregulation them, which usually means lower wages, often dumping and even worse working conditions. Lakmus paper in sections that deal in a narrow sense with spatial planning – I personally am not a member of these professions, regrettably or fortunately – is how it is with those that draw the shortest that can be numerically smallest, lobbyistically least skilled or whatever we name. In this article, we somehow return the dignity of landscape architects and architects – why? Those of us who worked with them from these professions know that they actually have, but let not the architects and builders be offended, the most urbanist knowledge. To a large extent, they also have it because of the landscape architecture of Bane, you studied in Belgrade, it's a little different, and you were a master of urbanism. [[…]] Part of it is also because some of the classical landscape architectures in our country were unable to work, with rare exceptions, and of course they found some survival option. And now somehow hitting these people, putting them in a sort of second-rate kind of profession, feels personal to me, and even to us in Levica is unacceptable. That is why we are making this amendment, and also in the light of the fact that we will experience fewer events of rough black constructions than we will consider at the next point when the Ski Association of Slovenia has three times exceeded something with the documents that was built on fire. And that is actually the subject of this article. I'll put all the articles, the chairman, across. In Article 8, we better define which study programmes are those which are the people who will carry out this serious and responsible work. What saddens us, however, is that in all these laws we do not touch reality, we do not look out the window, we do not see what I often say, but unfortunately, I would be glad if it was a greater political populism, but it is not because I am not a populist, that we do not see how they live less than 40 years in this society and country. Compared to your Karl Erjavac, I will never reach my knees in the political populism of my colleague. [[advertising from the hall]] Please don't interrupt me. Why? After all, because I teach in spatial studies and because many young people at best, if they work, work in some forms of forced espas, free volunteering practices and so on. With this amendment to Article 9, we only want what is basically written in our labour legislation, and we have forgotten that, of course, most of our jobs should be regular. If the job is of a regular relationship, it should be regular. And for article 14, I'm surprised you haven't seen anything like it or suggested it to others who like to do business like that and talk about it. However, it seems to me that the applicant here has dangerously interfered with regulated professions and ownership. I'll explain in case everyone understands. Here we are, something that comes from different winds and we know something about this subject. At one point, people will have enough of us, or someone will decide not to run anymore, and we will say, a letter, and good, because we don't fight down in the cafeteria, we don't fight among ourselves, let's do business together, we know something about space. Okay, we need one lawyer, we have a colleague Zorčič, we need one – a colleague, I really don't know what you've graduated from – who gets to know about administrative procedures, we're going to take a colleague Verbič, we don't know what he's done, we're going to take him, we're going to take him, Dani has energy, I'm a space sociologist. Well, we also need some constructionist and an urbanist, here we are lucky, Bane will be in two roles, both of them, Ljubo is a constructionist, both of you have experience with serious constructions at home and abroad. And then, if I read it right, we'll have problems with the ownership structure of our joint venture, because Bane and Ljubo will be represented and we won't. You know, there's ownership, and then there's Call, which is a license, and everyone else we know on the spot, and we can't have that license, and we have some knowledge, and we could be co-owners. [[…]] This, of course, does not overwhelm the regulation of professions in the way we have it in us, that if Kordish were here, I would be right to tell you that they are – lawyers were buying medical concessions, that is not the same story. With this law, as it is when we stop being Members and Members, you make it impossible for this team that I have mentioned – and what colleague we have forgotten – here, colleague Levicar will have a pierre over us because she is such an experienced journalist and she is fine, but we will hire Boyano as the devil's lawyer who will watch and control everything – with such a law we will start fighting over the ownership structure or will have to be a partially strawed owner of Bane. Then someone gets a midlife crisis, gets a sweetheart, and the lover says, "Well, wait for what you're going to break the owner, "no shit," because you have 25.5%, and you're going to get more profits." Perfectly, I've explained this to you very much in a lifetime. This is a similar story to Dani’s interpretation of that article in another marriage, where there was a little bit of ostracism. I'm guessing, you know, Karl Marx wrote capital for the capitalists, but apparently the capitalists didn't read it because I'm here to explain it. When it comes to a small economy, excises, beer, I'm here when there's money, I'm here when it comes to ownership structures, capitalism, and I'm here. After all, we might be able to organize ourselves as a space cooperative, but at this point I will somehow stop. I think it was important to note that. Or maybe my friend Hainz would win the lottery, and he'd say, look, because these punks are fine, and I got some money, how we're gonna do this now, and you're gonna have to look for a straw owner. I think we need to be a lot more specific here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The third package of engineering legislation, the engineering work, is a regulation of professions, which is exempt from existing building legislation and is set up on its own. Some things are more or less summarized, but it is clear here that it is somehow a protection of certain particular professions, especially by how everyone will manage their part of the kindergarten, and of course I will explain. I'll take my turn. First of all, the professional tasks of the authorised architect are no longer in fact any change, then the professional tasks of the authorised engineers in the areas of engineering, construction, electrical engineering, technology, fire safety, mining and so on, also the geodesy is special, transport engineering, then under points 5 and 6 of the tasks of the landscape architect and the professional tasks of the authorised spatial planner. But here's actually, I'd say who's gonna have a bigger garden or who's gonna have more weed on which beam. Now it is clear and planned to specify who can deal with what. And we're not saying now that, I don't know, they're going to be from any other professional departments, but they're just going to be from this architectural and construction work, who can do anything. If I stop at this authorized spatial planner, it's an obligation for the municipalities. We know that in Slovenia the specifics of the size of municipalities are very different, they are municipalities that have a possible square metre, a kilometer size, or even those that are slightly larger or if I estimate through my thumb that every Slovene municipality can walk on average within three hours, and one even before, and the other perhaps a little later. And here the restrictions or tasks for certain municipalities are also financially burdensome with the very law that the congregation must have an authorized spatial planner. What's his job? He controls the manufacturer of the spatial act. That is to say, we have made another supervisory function of a particular profession to oversee the manufacturer. In my opinion, it is either advice or supervision or whatever, depending on the specificity of the municipalities, given the importance, the complexity of the spatial act is all happening on the market today. Why did we take this authority from the congregations and make it legal for them to be a new regulated profession? We have also established an institute where the regional spatial plan is concerned. We have an institute for regional spatial planning, another instance that I don't challenge, but when I add up all these control segments, in short, those that are an integral part of the municipal spatial plan, these things accumulate. It's a duplication of functions. And I can, I know you're defending it now, and, yes, you know, they have here, and they have to handle specific municipal matters, and so on. If I look at this, it's about doubling the functions and charging the costs to the municipalities. Let the congregations be autonomous in this regard, each congregation has a responsible approach to spatial planning, I myself have experience in this area, I have learned two municipal spatial plans, and the congregation which has this matter regulated, so this is no art now. But if we look at the comparison, Austria states that anyone can be involved in the production of spatial acts in Austria. This is said to be a very wide range, but of course it should be regulated, this is the Spatial Planning Council. We know they have regional arrangements. This is said to have regulated this area of transparency, expertise and so on through regional regulation. We are now setting up on a regular basis and we would like to have one regulation at the municipal level. It is said that we are more demanding than our neighbours in Austria. That's a fact. We have two instances to confirm this. They also have a very similar approach to spatial planning in Germany, similar to that of Austria. Similarly, spatial manufacturers can be very wide—from architect, landscape architect, construction, surveyor, geographer, urbanist and so on. And they have no specific regulation that he must now be a municipal spatial planner. If we put regional regulation into place, why do we have municipal legislation now? However, I know that this regional moment is not working right now, but with the adoption of this law this matter will be established, it will have to be put into practice. In my opinion, it will be a duplication of functions, or it will be now, I would say that this is the most demanding project of any congregation that will bring about a spatial arrangement. It cannot be so controlled that I now say, with two additional instances, with a municipally authorised spatial planner and with a regional one, because, of course, even beyond the regional spatial plan, certain municipal things will not be able to go. That's a fact. The hierarchy is thus established and it will be very clear what is the order of spatial acts. Of course, I also see comments from college where there are comments that the actual regulation is not in line with the higher education programme. We know that the study programs are a process, not a fresh loaf of bread you put in the oven, but a process that lasts for years, and that it is necessary to have the regulation of certain professions in line with the school's curriculum. From this point of view, I also always look at the financial effects, and it is strictly stated here that there are no financial effects. I cannot agree with this because I know that two-thirds of the municipalities do not have an authorized spatial planner and that it will cost them no matter what form of cooperation they agree on. This is a cost for the congregations. And the fact that there are no financial effects on the basis of this legislation is not true. This does not hold up or tell me how the congregations will avoid these costs if this law does not have a financial effect. Who will settle this cost for the congregations? That's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! I would like to say that this amendment of the United Left is not actually a return of dignity to the landscape architects because they have it, but it is only an attempt to collect the sympathy of the landscape architects and try to flirt with them for purely electoral purposes. When it comes to architecture and urbanism, they have the most knowledge of architecture and urban architecture, the most knowledge of landscape architecture and landscape management is given by landscape architects. What's not to understand? I just can't accept the thought of wanting to run over people with this, things are putting themselves in their place. And since my colleague, Trček, who proposes this, likes to speak in parables, I would also use one; when you get hurt in the stomach, you go to the gastroenterologist, I guess, not the gynecologist. Each profession has its own purpose, so it is imprudent, unwise and misleading to argue that the production of urban acts is also in the domain of landscape architects. It is, but in a certain, smaller domain, but generally not. So I am not in favour of adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replica [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Replica, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u104	Okay, then it's a replica. Anyone who goes to see how many architects in Slovenia, how many landscape architects and architects there are, will see that in fact Bane, which I love very much, sells pumpkins here. Anyone who has read the explanation, what the Minister said in explaining the previous law, in the introductions, about what and how we will build, what the purpose of this law is, and if it is 4 years old, knows that we need all these professions. Now the expert sends me, today the new letters of profession have come to order at the OPPN, so that somehow it is not only the architects who are licensed. If someone is just rooting for their narrower profession – and I have to say irresponsiblely to you here, Bane, because you've finally mastered urbanism – it's you, not me. We're the space sociologists here, anyway, the ones we'll never be at the trough. Maybe if I hit it on the flight, that other story. But I have to apologize to the Minister, and of course I would take you to that company, and I would take you to someone else, because someone has more experience than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you. Maybe I'd comment on the amendments, not once again who filed them, but I'm more on the substantive side. I am convinced that the Ministry of the Environment and Space in this preparation of the law has not defined anyone as a second-class job or an education or a person. When mentioning four regulated professions – I admit that I cannot listen to myself now, but – I certainly stated that they are an authorized architect, an authorized engineer, an authorised landscape architect and an authorized space planner. If I'm not, I'm sorry, I admit I let myself be wrong sometimes. The landscape architects are, of course, preserved with their knowledge, they have 25 years of society's activities on Friday, so they have been in our space for a long time, and we preserve these acquired rights. They are also not excluded from the possibility of obtaining a space planner's mandate, so they can sign up for the examination. I think that's right. The only thing, unfortunately, is that Dr. Trček knows more than I do, because I do not have any knowledge about higher education or all of these necessary procedures for programmes, and now I only mention that architects have urban skills involved in an educational programme that has been approved by the European Commission. This is why they have a broader basic or license and also includes the production of the OPPN. If they obtain this confirmation on similar educational programmes on the European Commission, of course, the regulation can be amended in a later period. Interdisciplinaryness in spatial planning is regulated by ZUREP. Of course we agree, indeed, this spatial planning must be, it is a necessity that it is as interdisciplinary as possible. With regard to the amendment to Article 8. I think the details are set out in the competent platform, so we don't support this amendment either. Then we have Article 9, we are talking about compulsory employment, traineeship obligations, and these two options have also been rejected in the public debate. [[Incomprehensible]] I am very sorry about this, but it is therefore a public debate to involve public debate initiatives in the drafting of laws. As far as Article 14 is concerned, that is to say, such municipalities of economic operators are on the market, and this is also included in the possible form of carrying out activities. I would say further that the spatial planner is already a regulated profession in the Construction of Buildings Act, which is a law that is now in force and is not regulated. I really don't have any experience, and I haven't actually dealt with it, but my colleagues tell me that Germany has a regulated profession as a spatial planner and urban planner and Austria doesn't. Of course, we are not talking about new regulation now, but it is true that this spatial planner is leading the production of implementing spatial acts, OPPNs and OPNs. I am now returning to my initiative that it will be difficult for small municipalities that do not have a joint municipal administration, some have already come to this, to take advantage of all the opportunities provided by the legislation to further co-finance this community administration, and of course the quality of work of people in such areas is higher. However, the spatial planner will not work on regional and spatial plans or strategic acts. I hope I've been pleased, Dr. Duck will tell me a lot back, but I think I've covered everything that needs to be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Please sign up. Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I won't say much back, Madam Minister, it is obvious that the architects of all these professions, you or your associates, have somehow abused you most successfully, that is a fact. Maybe, I don't know, because Bane is so charming. Here, this has fallen into us today, and you have received this email: “We expect you to support the profession and contribute to making the spatial planner a respectable profession accessible to all who, on the basis of basic competences acquired through study, work experience,” and so on, “have these skills. Therefore, in the hope that you will support the amendment sent by the Department of Landscape Architecture from the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, Faculty of Construction and Geodesy – Department of Spatial Planning, Department of Geography, Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, Association of Urbanists and Spatial Planners, Association of Landscape Architects, Association of Geodets of Slovenia," I would like to call them by ear, because they have not yet been written in and anyone else could have mentioned them. In fact, at Article 8, my expert and I had a bit of a fight, or I would give more urbanism, and he put environmental experts in. You know, I taught years ago at Zvortanik's Polytechnics, and there's also a few people who have a little bit of knowledge that some Kemis or something like that wouldn't happen to us. What does it say that you reject these articles? This somehow tells young people, calm down from Slovenia; except for those architects who will somehow be able to survive here. Of course, you do not have experience with Slovenian higher education, but it is good that you do not have them, because you will live 15 years longer because of this, but we do have a whole range of programs for people who are being trained to be more responsible for the environment and space, and now we will take away the possibility of working together. Go to the magnetogram read, Minister, how did you spell GZ? What's the point of GZ, the first few sentences? After those first few sentences, you need all these people that I've listed, and all these institutions that I've listed, and another van of us spatial sociologists and sociologists or a small bus to make the DNs, RPNs, ODPs, OPPNs better. In this light, SMC's presidential candidate and Government Education's district minister should read this a little bit more carefully and go crazy, but she didn't. That seems problematic to me. As well as my resident colleague, the SD Minister, who is involved in the work, should drive these young people mad and give them better and different conditions. After what I'm saying right now, I probably won't be in the next government, because who would have such a fool on the government who would be so hard on it, but that's how the government should be responsible. Of course, you can't cover all this for your secretary of state, because I understand that you've been working all day. Maybe you're being taken home by car, saved up here, and you're working so much more, and I'm working on the train, so there's a difference. But I'm gonna stop right here. This is about some irresponsible communication issue. I don't know, maybe you or your secretary of state will have to show up at this 25-year-old, but I wouldn't have hoped with such an adopted law to go with a bag on my head. And I don't want to be insulting to you, that's what people should be -- and that's also this problem of sectoral division in us -- that's what those two colleagues I've mentioned, say, wait, Irene, that's not going to work. That's what this is about, and that's why these articles are, except for the last one that separates ownership and expertise, not necessarily, but partly that allows for some ownership structure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I must admit that I will get a little closer to a respected colleague who has just explained the need for these amendments. At the outset, I say that I am firmly in the position of Minister, and the argument is as follows. All of us who participated in the parental committee have also witnessed with the abundance of invited forms of communication that all of these educated people, who are characterized by this threesome or by this third law, as regulating professions that are undoubtedly needed by Slovenia in the area of all three laws to show interest, are anyway included in the chambers. Here I think that my colleague, who has proposed certain amendments, and to which Dr. Trček has also somewhat attached himself in his debate, needs to be understood, not solidarity, but the fact is that a respected colleague has proposed on behalf of an amendment chamber. I see nothing wrong here and it is right to talk about democracy. However, that the applicant in this case, on the part of the Government, has decided that, in a certain direction, those proposals have been very narrowly interesting, I see nothing wrong with them and there is nothing wrong with them, even though the Member has shown up to propose certain matters in the interest of a chamber. What I was going to say is I'm going to go into a little dialogue with Dr. Duck, the regulation of professions, the fact that it has to be in this segment. I am also very much in favour of the fact that the profession must be included in the so-called Troika of Laws, but the key question is, and I will point out two things that are just going to point out that these so-called House Associations and, similarly, the adoption or consideration of a package of such laws see what is legitimate, interest, market niche and so on. There's a border around here somewhere. And if I touch only two matters that have been under-exposed to the parental committee and even today in this debate. I think almost no one mentioned anything, but the UN was bound by the law to be adopted by 2009. It was said that in 149 municipalities the matter was carried out, in 54 municipalities, what is known is how many years or decades it has been open, in 8 municipalities it has not even started this process, and these are the realities in which, in the adoption of such packages of legislation, there are always few things turning or pointing at completely different things. Closely related to this would be one function related to the previous law, which is still somehow linked to the regulation of professions, and this is the supervisor in the construction itself, whom we know to be the link between the designer and the investor. I think that none of us, or in the general public, has a different opinion, such as that the supervisor who is appointed is a person who is first and foremost trustworthy and far ahead with some professional competences, and we are literally then on this so-called profession regulation. It's just a prerequisite if we want to. At the same time, this law, which I have just mentioned, also seeks to improve procedures at a speed, in price to an investor, and in particular in the confidence that an investor entrusted to a person, in this case to a designer, to build this so-called project documentation, is confidently entrusted to a person who comes from a regulated profession. Not to mention, by chance, if this person who has any confidence in an investor also appears as an authority in the process of obtaining a building permit, because I admit that it is painful in a number of cases vis-à-vis the administrative authority. So it has to be very professional that this trust of an investor then also takes place in relation to the acquisition of a building permit, and in more difficult matters, we know, even a useful permit. What seems to me to be crucial in this matter, but it is not enough to point out that, on the part of these regulated professions on the part of the investor in some direction, it is expected in the initial stage that this person will not only be professional but also in other areas very actively participate in the achievement of the objectives of the investor, but especially in those local communities or municipalities, whether they already have the OPN or not, that the investor's interest will be realized at this local municipal level. It means, under what we know, changes in destination, placement in space and so on. As a result, how important is this regulation of professions that you have a set of experts involved in these processes in one way or another. However, we are all aware that when interested associations are formed, different chambers are established, and so on, it is logical, we are a practically open market economy, everyone is looking for a niche, and it is clear that there is a boundary between public interest, the interest of the investor and, on the other hand, the country which must have some limitations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Replica, here you go. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you. My colleague said very clearly and nicely that you have submitted to the lobby of the architects. But I respect them, no problem. But who is the biggest investor not only in Slovenia, but also in some other major countries, quite frankly, infrastructure up and down? State, local community. And it is the responsibility of the state to consider the spectrum of knowledge it needs in doing so. That's why it's going, and here's the problem that you've only narrowed yourself down to architects. However, from a specific investment to an investment, there are of course different cocktails of this knowledge that you need, and here is the problem and here is disrespect for many professions. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 56 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate in its entirety. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the Tribal National Park after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Lidija Sberbank, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. [[advertising from the hall]] Stebernak, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mrs. Lydia Stebernak. LIDIA STEBERNAK: Dear Members, honourable President! The reason for the amendment of the Law on Triglav National Park is that, in achieving the objectives of nature protection and protection of Triglav National Park, legal grounds for legalisation and ecological rehabilitation of the existing water reservoir in the area of the Pokluka Sports Recreation Centre, which does not have a significant impact on the environment, but constitutes an ecological trap, therefore recovery is needed. The proposed amendment takes into account the material on the basis of which the European Commission closed the pre-trial procedure for the construction of the Biathlon Centre in the Rudne Field. The possibility of the construction of water reservoirs in other recreational centres provided for in Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Triglav National Park shall also be regulated. In addition, this amendment also provides legal grounds for local communities to plan appropriate national spatial arrangements in Triglav National Park and provides for exceptions to two regional roads, namely the Kranjska Gora-Russka cesta-Vršič-Trenta and the Strmec road in the area of the Mangartsko sedela, from the protection arrangements applicable to narrower protected areas in the event of natural disasters when the road cannot be repaired on the existing route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President. Here you go, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u115	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 33rd session. Ten. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Triglav National Park submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 104th session. 9. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. Amendments to Articles 3 and 5 of the SMC, Desus and SD were tabled within the time limit. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the State Council, Bohinj Municipality, the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In its initial supplementary explanation, the Minister for Environment and Space presented the main objectives and main solutions to the proposed law. She pointed out that the reason for the proposed amendment was to provide legal basis for the legalisation and ecological recovery of the existing water reservoir in the Pokluka Sports Recreation Centre, which did not have a significant impact on the environment to the extent that it did not have a significant impact on the environment, but represented an ecological trap and much needed rehabilitation. The proposed amendment takes into account the material on the basis of which the European Commission closed the pre-trial procedure for the construction of the Biathlon Centre in the Rudne Field. The proposed law also regulates the possibility of the construction of water reservoirs in other recreational centres provided for in Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Triglav National Park. In addition, the proposed amendment provides legal grounds for the possibility that local communities can plan appropriate spatial arrangements in Triglav National Park. An exemption for a regional road shall also be established from the protection arrangements applicable to smaller insurance areas in the event of natural disasters. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the comments tabled by the amendments were duly taken into account. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development explained the reasons for the Commission's support of the bill. The Mayor of Bohinj Municipality also participated in the meeting, which considered the proposed law to be a step forward in regulating the problem in this area. He further suggested that the management of the Triglav National Park should be transferred to local communities. In addition, at the meeting, a participating representative of the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia explained that the relationship did not oppose the adoption of the proposed law. It points out that this change should not be an excuse for possible problematic interference in Triglav National Park. The short discussion expressed the view that this is a step in the right direction in addressing some of the problems in this area. A question was raised regarding the ban on cycling in certain areas and the need to appoint a director of the Triglav National Park. The Minister explained that the problem of cycling and the consideration of other municipal initiatives would be discussed in the context of the preparation of the first next amendment of the law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments to Articles 3 and 5 of the SMC, Desus and SD. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the SMC Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We are now adopting a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Triglav National Park with the aim of providing a legal basis for the ecological rehabilitation of the water reservoir at the Pokluka Mine Field and to enable the sustainable development of recreational centres in Triglav National Park. The bill thus provides three main solutions. In order to allow for the legalisation and ecological rehabilitation of the water reservoir in the Pokluka Mine Field, a new paragraph is added in Article 74 of the Law on the Triglav National Park, which provides that an existing water reservoir is legalised and repaired in the Rudne Field and that water reservoirs are allowed to be built in existing recreational centres. The Water Collector was built in 2009 in the context of the Sport Recreation Centre in the Rudni Field, contrary to the planned project documentation, which was the basis for the issue of the building permit. The adoption of this novel will make it possible to remedy this situation legally and make it possible to legalise the facility. The establishment of a legal option also simplifies the procedures of the park local communities to plan spatial arrangements of State importance, if, of course, the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Environment and Space, and the park local community so agree. The proposed addition to Article 22 of the Act introduces this possibility and provides for a specific agreement between the competent ministry and the interested local community with which the relationship in the procedure is regulated. In addition, the Novela provides an appropriate solution for natural disasters that may damage existing infrastructure. In 2012, for example, the Strmec-Mangart section launched a larger rock disaster to be remedied. The Ministry of Environment and Space estimates that the rehabilitation of the endangered part of the road, both financially and technically, is not meaningful, and the solution is proposed to extend the existing road to a mountain cabin and to build a new road up to 300 metres long until it is connected to an existing road. This is not possible in the light of the proposed solution and in the light of the existing Law on Triglav National Park, so a new fourth paragraph is added in Article 18 of the Law on Triglav National Park, which provides that in the event of natural disasters certain roads may be planned and constructed where their use and renewal is not possible. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposal contains urgent solutions that will solve the real problems reflected within the Triglav National Park, so we will support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on the Triglav National Park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Ministry team, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that we will also support this amendment of the Triglav National Park Act in our parliamentary group. It is a matter of solving some prevailing situation that needs to be rectified, and, of course, rehabilitation in such a way as to enable legalisation in nature through the amendment of the law. This is, as has been said several times before, the legalisation and ecological rehabilitation of the water reservoir next to the biotlon centre in Pokluka. The correction is also aimed at other constructions of water reservoirs, such as the Vogla, also at changing legal bases and allowing for the regulation of certain accommodations with municipal spatial plans in these areas, and finally at the possibility of replacing the construction of the road to Mangart, which has been carried away in the past by the beach and is in the protected area. My thanks also to the Ministry, in this case it has listened to initiatives coming from the park local communities and here by the Members who are participating on this committee. But to some extent, I expected a solution that we Members have also advocated on all the committees on infrastructure and space, that is to resolve, or eliminate, the anomaly in the law, which says that cycling in the first and second areas is allowed, but is not allowed in the third area, which is the least protected by law. The Minister's answer was that the agreement with the mayors was in a different direction, I hope that we will resolve this matter, but I doubt, of course, that the Minister will resolve it in the autumn, as promised on the committee. One more thing I would like to draw your attention to when we adopt this new law. Much, I think, of these things that have not been resolved in the past is also at the expense of our largest national park still being run by the perpetrator of duty. In the entire mandate of this government, the government has failed to appoint a director of such an important institution as the Triglav National Park, thus allowing certain things to be systematically resolved, in particular that park local communities, which are an important entity, have a credible interlocutor both in changing certain arrangements in the case of a management plan and in the case of changes in the field of legislation governing this area. I hope that the Minister will resolve the matter by the end of this year, because the mandate of the current perpetrator of the duty expires in January of the second year, and this, after all, would be a good trip for the additions required by the TNP law to be implemented normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! In our parliamentary group we will support the proposal for a new Law on Triglav National Park, because it is also a novel supported by the local community or all local communities that are located in the area of the national park and have also been critics of the existing law. The Mayor of Bohinj was also pleased that things are finally moving in the right direction. The Law will allow the construction of water reservoirs in recreational centres, allowing artificial snowing on Vogel ski. This will significantly extend the ski season. Of course, the municipality will have to draw up a quality municipal spatial plan, which will also enable snowing. The law will also allow ecological rehabilitation and legalisation of the water reservoir in the area of the Pokluka Sports Recreation Centre, the water collector at Pokluka is, under the applicable law governing the construction of buildings, incompatible construction, as it is larger than planned in the project documentation, which was also the basis for the construction permit. The draft law simplifies the procedure in the case of spatial arrangements of national importance in the national park, whereby, with the prior consent of the State, a local community may also plan this spatial arrangement, and the possibility of exemption from the protection arrangements for narrower protected areas when the road that was damaged, for example, due to a natural accident, is required. In the Desus Group, we expect the next amendment to the Triglav National Park Act to bring some other necessary content for which the municipalities located in the Triglav National Park want to settle as soon as possible. One such is to allow seasonal tourist infrastructures or the establishment of historical thematic routes and the construction of protected mountain paths and so on. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the Regulation on the Management Plan of the Triglav National Park for the period 2016-2025, which means the obligation of all sources, not only the Environment Ministry, to carry out certain tasks and to provide financial resources to achieve the objectives set out in the Law on the Triglav National Park in force. This will provide resources for the implementation of Articles 10 and 11 of the current law, which lay down the content and modalities of the development guidelines within the Triglav National Park. This will facilitate life and enable development in local communities located in the Triglav National Park area. As we say, in the Desus Group we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u123	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia is a country with a beautiful unspoiled nature, which is appreciated by both residents and tourists. Natural activities are the main condition for the development of green and responsible tourism. In addition to the Green Capital of Europe, Slovenia has also received the prestigious title Green Destination in the past year. Triglav National Park is one of the oldest parks in Europe and the only national park in Slovenia. The total of 83 thousand 982 hectares and 33 settlements located in eight congregations is the largest in the municipalities of Bovec and Bohinj. The establishment of the protected area shall be determined by means of professional grounds and, in general, means that a security regime shall be in place within a given geographical area which restricts or prohibits certain interventions to the premises. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Triglav National Park, allowing the legalisation and ecological rehabilitation of the water reservoir in the Minefield and thus the sustainable development of the Pokluka Sports Recreation Centre. One of the reasons why the Government proposed this amendment is the European Commission's pre-trial procedure. In order to implement this project, Slovenia or Pokulka Sports Recreation Centre received €6.5 million from European resources. In order to avoid the recovery of funds, the Ministry of Environment and Space, as a remedial measure for a sports recreation centre that has been in operation for eight years, has proposed a later environmental impact assessment and amendments to the Law on the Triglav National Park. For operations to the premises necessary for the legalisation and execution of ecological recovery, such as the transformation and sonar arrangements of the steep slope, a building permit must be obtained. Since it is the construction of a water reservoir in the third protection area of the Triglav National Park, for which the law prohibits the construction of surface waters and collectors, with the exception of livestock supplies, natural protection consent and building permits in this area without amending the law, it is not possible to obtain. This is therefore a key reason for the government novel. The New Slovenia Group, together with the Group of Non-Aligned Members, made recommendations on the effective implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park, in particular the implementation of Articles 10 and 11. Mayor Bohinja told the Committee that the Ministry of the Environment and Space had asked them to submit plans for development programmes to them as soon as the recommendations were adopted. We strongly hope that this time the Ministry will be able to implement these two articles to the full. We will certainly monitor this issue in our Group of Members, and if there are no visible changes, we will also take appropriate action. In addition, Mayor Bohinj reiterated that the Triglav National Park still does not have an official director, it has been called only the perpetrator of the duties for years. The management of the park should also, according to the mayor, be transferred to the local community, only this one knows what is good and effective for the park. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the mayor's concerns and proposals are in place, so we call on the Government or the Ministry of Environment and Space to prepare appropriate solutions for the proposals. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be unanimously supported by the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you. Because it's such a nice attitude, I'll read it first and then maybe add something else. The purpose of the law is essentially to legalise the black construction of the water reservoir of the sports recreation centre Pokluka, which you have all been covering up in half so far. This black construction was made on purpose, since the water reservoir was built in more than three times the size of the construction permit. The investor, the Ski Association of Slovenia, overstepped all legal standards and questioned the co-financing of the construction of a water reservoir from European cohesion funds. No one was ever responsible for an illegal building, environmental impact assessments, other studies were carried out for the purposes of legalisation by a post-festum, as well as all the remedial measures. In Levica, we agree that this is an object of state importance, but nevertheless, the fact remains that no one in the Ski Link has lost a function, no one has paid the penalty for black construction, nothing has happened. What do we report to the investor in question? We say: if you convince us that your building is important for the country, then it can also be built not only in black, but also up to three times, it can exceed the size provided for in the building permit four times, the country will legalise your facility if it has to adopt a special law or amendment, while the other small investors, I have in mind, in particular, all the remaining citizens and citizens, put it in a second-rate position. One must or must stick to the building permit, the building legislation, the troika we talked about, obviously others can do what they want, if the problem is law, and the ruling coalition will change almost anything. The majority of the spatial order is considered, but obviously not the chosen minority. With this black construction, the ski association of Slovenia has taken the country hostage, implemented the project in a way that is not in accordance with the nature conservation rules and has put ex post restrictive measures at risk of financing by the European Union, causing unnecessary costs to the country, which are not negligible. In order to legalise and prevent the loss of European funds, we had to additionally engage the Environment Agency, the Environment and Space Inspectorate, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Government and, finally, we in the National Assembly. It was necessary to adopt a series of administrative procedures and eventually to amend legislation, but no one is and obviously will not answer. By adopting a short-term law, everything will be well under the carpet. In addition to the legalisation of the black construction mentioned above, the law will allow the construction of new smaller water reservoirs, a sports recreation centre, which has not been possible until now. This is also the reason why we will not oppose this law in Levic. These centers need -- you've already explained this to others, I'm not going to read it any further. However, these must be built in accordance with the nature conservation regulations and building permits and the rest of the spatial documentation that has been issued for them, and not as it has been in the case of an existing holder, which we now legalise. The adoption of this law sets a dangerous precedent not to do so. If the state made an exception for the first time, why don't we do it the second time and the third time and I don't know which way? That is why we will not support this law in Levic; this law will ruin all that we are — how many hours? 10, 11, 12, 1, 2, what we talked about for five and a half hours. By the way, in five and a half hours of debate about the troika, Desus did not come forward for a second and has 11 Members and Members. Good morning, Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on state meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological services within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go, Mrs. Lydia Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u127	Dear Members, Members, honourable President! The State Meteorological, Hydrological, Oceanographic and Seismological Service Act combines four types of existing tasks to be carried out by the State authority as a single national meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological service. The service will be carried out as an administrative task in order to provide generalised information on natural phenomena and on the state of natural resources in the field of meteorology, hydrology, oceanography and seismology, as well as information that serves other public tasks and many other social subsystems. The tasks are very similar in the method of work and in the objectives and objectives, which allows and directs their integration into a single regulatory framework and the single implementation of individual phases of the work process results in synergies and possibilities for their further optimization. The service will be carried out with clearly defined objectives: the sustainability of observation and systematic data collection, the provision of greater human security and property, greater efficiency in the performance of national tasks and of general-purpose activities for the population and the economy, in particular the protection against natural and other disasters and the elimination of their consequences, defence, spatial planning, the construction of buildings, the protection of cultural heritage, transport, public health, agriculture and forestry, energy supply, tourism, including environmental protection and water management. The law regulates the infrastructure of the service, these are measuring stations and its legal status. It is a material spine through which data on all meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological phenomena are collected and processed by observation. Other data sources and free transmission obligations are also identified. The objective is to produce forecasts, analyses and assessments based on these data, informing or alerting the general public as well as individual addressees, such as the Slovenian Army, the Protection and Rescue Authority, the Maritime Authority and other national authorities. The whole and newly regulated material which is currently scattered and regulated in several laws or regulations is not regulated at all in certain cases. For a legal arrangement in the field of meteorology, it is recognised that it is detailed and, in other areas, too general, weak and even non-existent, so the law fully replaces the Law on Meteorological Activities and amends the arrangements for hydrological and seismological monitoring under the Law on Environmental Protection and the Water Act. The number of sub-legislative rules is decreasing from the envisaged twelve to one and the implementation of meteorological activities as an economic activity and profession is completely deregulation. The service will be carried out by a body in the composition of the Ministry responsible for the protection of the environment, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. The law follows the obligations and guidelines arising from the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the World Meteorological Organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u128	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Daniel Anton Ranc, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u129	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry and fellow Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 33rd session. Ten. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on state meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological services submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by coalition groups. In its supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, Minister of Environment and Space, Irena Majcen explained that the proposal for a law combines four types of existing tasks to be carried out by the State authority as a single national meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological service. The service will be carried out with clearly defined objectives, such as the sustainability of observation and systematic data collection, the provision of greater human security and property, greater efficiency in the performance of national tasks and of general-purpose activities for the population and the economy, which include, in particular, protection against natural and other disasters and addressing their consequences, defence, spatial planning, construction of buildings, protection of cultural heritage, transport, public health, agriculture and forestry, and energy supply. The draft law fully replaces the Law on Meteorological Activities and amends the arrangements for hydrological and seismological monitoring under the Law on Environmental Protection and the Water Act. The number of regulations provided for under the law is decreasing from the envisaged twelve to one and the implementation of meteorological activities as economic activities and professions is fully deregulation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the amendments tabled by the majority followed the comments made in their opinion and the other warnings were made by the rapporteur in a written opinion to the extent appropriate. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission supports the bill and had the issue of regulating the space and additional burden of municipalities on the protection against hailing and spraying of clouds with a reagent of silver iodide, which is against the profession and may have adverse health effects, which the Commission believes should be regulated in the uniform regulation of this issue at the level of the State. In a short discussion, Mr Levice refused to support the bill because he felt it would not solve the problems in the areas covered by this regulation. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 11, 21 and 26 of the SMC, Desus and SD. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u130	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u131	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Once again a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! We are adopting a new law on state meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological services, which, on a new and particularly integrated basis, establishes solutions for the smooth functioning of this public service. This law provides for a combination of four types of tasks to be managed by the State authority as a single national meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological service. The law lays down the powers of the service, its status, its infrastructure, in particular the service of the relevant measuring device, its legal protection regime, the method of obtaining data, the performance of tasks for the needs of other public authorities, public information and alerting, and a number of other solutions in this area. The tasks of the service shall be carried out in order to provide generalised information on natural phenomena and on the state of natural resources in the field of meteorology, hydrology, oceanography, seismology and information from the same areas as other public tasks, which are useful and often also necessary for the operation of many other State subsystems. The fact is that all four areas show certain similarities in the performance of their tasks in methods, objectives and purposes, and it is therefore reasonable to combine these activities into one job as a whole. The national meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological services primarily pursue the objective of permanent observation and systematic data collection. In particular, it is important information on natural phenomena and the state of natural resources, which are of general benefit, such as reliable and up-to-date information, for the general public provision of information for the needs of the vital interests of the State and other information needed to ensure the safety of persons, property, air and maritime transport and for other areas of action. However, it is important that the content and scope of these activities are clearly and precisely defined, as the law fully replaces the Law on Meteorological Activities and the Cities of the Law on Environmental Protection. Members of the Group of the Modern Centre Party believe that the proposal is appropriate, a way of introducing a comprehensive and legal framework that defines in one place a single state meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological service and specifies the conditions under which this service operates. We will therefore fully support the law. At the end of the day, I will not predict the weather forecast, but I will certainly find that the weather will be a success, especially for meteorologists and all those who will work under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u132	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u133	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Honorable representative of the government, ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a law on State meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological services at second reading. The law fully regulates the operation of the service. This is not only about environmental protection, but also about the wider area, which includes protection of people and property. In particular, the law underlines the usefulness of a public service providing public and up-to-date information such as weather forecast, defence, protection, rescue and security of air and maritime transport, providing information for other areas such as agriculture, forestry, transport, urbanism, construction and energy supply. With regard to infrastructure, an emergency security area shall be established and a method of data protection collected by the service and a method of information in the event of an emergency shall be laid down. We will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u134	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Our lives have always been made by natural phenomena, perhaps less than in the past, but still to a considerable extent. No matter how technologically advanced we are, natural phenomena are still beyond our control, many of us are not even predicting anything to prevent. Science tries to understand and understand natural phenomena, which, to some extent, it succeeds, but still not as well as some might wish. Modern society, however, can already successfully monitor many phenomena through technology and predict them to a certain extent, at least as far as time is concerned. The fact is, however, that knowledge of the current and future natural conditions is crucial to the successful existence and development of each society. This law also provides an adequate legal basis for systematic, professional and regular monitoring, study and forecasting of various natural phenomena in the single state meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological services. At present, the tasks that will be managed by one service after the adoption of this law are governed by several different laws, which are more or less coherent and interlinked. This means that a combination of four types of tasks will be introduced, which will continue to be carried out by the State authority as a single state service. In the future, this service will also carry out administrative tasks to provide generally useful information on natural phenomena and the state of natural resources in the field of meteorology, hydrology, oceanography and seismology, as well as information from the same areas that serve other public tasks and many social sub-systems. The merger is economical in terms of size and practice shows that the single implementation of individual stages of the work process also generates synergies and possibilities for further optimization. We must not forget that due to the climate variability and the relatively high threat to Slovenia due to meteorological, hydrological and seismological phenomena, the importance of the implementation of these state tasks within one service is further emphasized. The purpose of the service will therefore be to produce forecasts, analyses and assessments on the basis of data obtained on the basis of observation, measurement and monitoring, informing or alerting the general public as well as individual addressees who can be provided with relevant information from the point of view of their mandated tasks. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u136	The text is by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u137	We have before us the proposal for a law on state meteorological, hydrological, oceanographic and seismological services, which completely regulates all four areas. For the service provider, the draft law provides for the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is already looking out for these areas. The news is that the new content will be comprehensive and newly edited. The service will be carried out as an administrative task in order to provide generalised information on natural phenomena and the state of natural resources in the field of meteorology, hydrology, oceanography and seismology, as well as information that serves other public tasks and many social subsystems. The tasks are very similar in the working method and in the objectives and objectives, which allows and directs their integration into a single information framework and the single implementation of individual phases of the work process creates synergies and possibilities for their additional optimization. The service will be carried out with clearly defined objectives, such as systematic data collection, greater human security and property, greater efficiency in the performance of national tasks and general benefit activities for the population and the economy. This group includes in particular the protection against natural and other disasters and the elimination of their consequences, defence, spatial planning, construction of buildings, protection of cultural heritage, transport, public health, agriculture and forestry, and energy supply. In order to achieve these objectives, the law sets out the content and scope of the tasks of the public service, the competence to carry out the service, the rights and obligations of the service provider and the material conditions for its implementation. The purpose of the service is to produce, on the basis of the collected data, forecasts, analyses and assessments, informing or alerting the general public as well as individual addressees, who can be provided with relevant information from the point of view of their mandated tasks. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that a comprehensive regulation of all four areas, which is currently dispersed in several laws or regulations and is not regulated at all in some part, needs to be properly regulated, so we will unanimously support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u138	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on legal protection in public procurement procedures under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration mag. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, primarily in order to harmonise this law with the new law on public procurement of the UNSC-3 and based on an analysis of the current state of affairs in the national and European areas, as well as with a view to increasing the effectiveness of legal protection in procurement procedures. Previously, at the competent ministry, this is the Ministry of Public Administration, we have analysed and conducted several written and oral consultations with various associations and state authorities and have found that the following three issues have been most exposed, the unpredictability of decision-making, the duration of legal protection procedures and the inefficiency of legal remedies. This proposed law increases the effectiveness of public procurement, as well as the compliance of the Public Procurement Act and the Law on Legal Protection in procurement procedures. The main solutions to the proposal are to inform the legal protection procedure by establishing an eRevision portal for the exchange of information and documents between the contracting authority, the investor, the selected tenderer and the State Audit Commission and other co-operating parties, thereby significantly reducing the duration of the procedure and reducing the administrative burdens and costs of all involved entities, making it possible to ensure the uniformity of the decision-making of the State Audit Commission, a more appropriate and accurate oral treatment and providing more appropriate and effective remedies for the enforcement of legal protection following the conclusion of the contract for the execution of a public contract. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now propose that the National Assembly carry out a third examination of the bill already at this meeting of the National Assembly and that the proposal of the law support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u140	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 40th meeting, on 4 November 2016. Ten. 2017 as a parent labour body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD in the course of the course of business, and the Members also received proposals for the amendment of the Committee of the same groups to Articles 34 and 35, as well as a proposal for amendments to the Committee of the New Slovenia Group. The representative of the proposed Minister of Public Administration said in a supplementary explanation of the articles that the draft law enhances the effectiveness of public procurement and ensures compliance with the 2015 Public Procurement Act with the code ZJN-3, and presented the main solutions to the bill's proposal, namely, that it is important to inform the process of legal protection by establishing the eRevizija portal, clearer, with the institutions of the law consistent with the regulation of pre-audit, audit and appeal fees, to ensure uniform decision-making, appropriate and accurate oral treatment and to provide more appropriate and effective remedies for the enforcement of legal protection following the conclusion of the contract for the execution of a public contract. In its presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had general comments on the proposal for Law 2. The first concerns the legal arrangements of the eRevision portal and the second general comment concerns the lack of regulation of legal protection. At the same time, she explained that the proposed amendments of the coalition groups followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and addressed the shortcomings of the bill. The representative of the Council of State presented the Commission's opinion on the state regulation that supports the proposal for a law and stressed that transparency and clarity of procedures and uniform decision-making in the audit procedures in similar matters are extremely important in the procurement proceedings, as there can otherwise be very quickly doubts about the efficiency and usefulness of the use of budgetary resources. The President of the State Audit Commission welcomed the broad public debate that led to the bill. In the debate, Member of the Lévica Group pointed out that there are major problems with procurement in Slovenia, and pointed out the prevalence of cartel negotiations in these procedures. Members of the coalition felt that the current method of appointing the President and members of the State Audit Commission was appropriate. The proposed amendment of the Committee to Article 34, however, retains an additional condition for the appointment of the President and members of the State Audit Commission, namely that it has not been a member of the political party body in the last three years prior to the publication of the invitation to tender, which should be an additional safeguard for the State Audit Commission to act properly and politically. The Committee then adopted its amendment to Article 34 on the basis of a written proposal by the amendment to the amendment. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u142	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, President. Hello, fellow Members! In 2015, the Public Procurement Act, which entered into force in April 2016, was adopted. Since this law brings some new institutions and concepts, the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures must also be aligned with the Public Procurement Act. This is precisely the purpose of the Ministry's analysis of the current system of legal protection against infringements in procurement procedures. On the basis of this analysis, it was found that the most problematic are the finality of the decision of the State Audit Commission, its uneven practice, the duration of proceedings and the inefficiency of legal remedies. The organisation of legal protection in public procurement is therefore not as uniform as the implementation of public procurement. The more important solutions enshrined in this Act include informing the process and establishing an eRevision e-portal to serve the exchange of information and documents. Its implementation is intended to shorten the duration of procedures, reduce administrative burdens and increase transparency in these procedures. Through eRevision, documents should be made publicly available throughout the procedure to all those involved in the procurement process. However, it would also like to clarify the method itself and the level of the pre-audit fees. There will also be separate fees for goods, services and construction when procurement is low and when other procedures are involved. The notice also lays down and regulates the obligation to convene the general meeting itself, which ensures uniformity in the decision-making of the State Audit Commission, which is also one of the indications in the legal protection system. This aims to increase legal certainty in all these procedures. More specifically, however, oral treatment may be sought by the State Audit Commission on its own or at the initiative of the proposers. News also includes the procedure for appointing the President and the members of the State Audit Commission. Under this law, it will be possible to run on a proposal from the President of the Republic, as is already the case for certain other functions in our country. The establishment of this system will also increase budget expenditure. In its opinion on this point, the government considers that a precise assessment cannot be envisaged or states that it will take 300,000 euros to establish this system and another 40,000 euros to operate and to maintain it annually. Furthermore, the Government further states that the resources for the establishment and operation of the system set up by the State Audit Commission are not yet provided in the budget. Thus, financial resources are still in the so-called computer cloud introduced by the Ministry of Public Administration throughout its mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u144	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u145	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures is practically a passenger to the umbrella basic law on public procurement. Since the latter was subject to a number of extensive amendments adopted in 2015 and entered into force in April 2016 and practically a completely new law on public procurement was adopted, this law, namely the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, should also be recast and harmonised. This is exactly the key purpose of this novel that is ahead of us. In the Desus Group, we support changes relating to the informationisation of legal protection procedures, i.e. the transition to electronic commerce, as this represents more rational, efficient and more cost-effective procedures. To this end, we support the establishment of an eRevision portal that will allow for a faster exchange of information, documents and thus reduced overall procedures. An important institute envisaged to amend the law is also the obligation to convene a general meeting. Why is it important? In the Desus Group, we believe that the decisions of the State Audit Commission will be more uniform as the positions adopted at these meetings will be binding and will have to be taken into account in the work of the State Audit Commission. However, views on important legal issues will also be made public, so that they can be made public by all those who touch them as the public concerned. Indeed, the Government has also proposed amendments to the procedure for appointing the President and members of the State Audit Commission, namely, that this authority should be new to the President of the Republic of Slovenia, but in all the arguments for and against such proposed regulation, we have assessed that the most transparent way of appointing the one that is now in use is to remain competent in the domain of the National Assembly. The proposal therefore does not contain reform changes, but improves the existing system, which we unanimously support in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u146	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Legislation in the field of space and construction legislation, public procurement and legal protection in procurement proceedings are substantively shared. It is therefore also reasonable to conclude today's debate day after a lengthy discussion and consideration of spatial and construction legislation by considering the proposal for a new Law on Legal Protection in procurement procedures. This bill, which is now under consideration, follows in particular the objective of ensuring effective legal protection against infringements in procurement procedures. With regard to the proposal for a law, a broad discussion was previously held with stakeholders directly affected by this law, and comments and suggestions were also taken into account to a greater extent. Social Democrats welcome this way of drafting legislation, and we can also support this proposal. Amendments to the law relate to the informationisation of the legal protection procedure, the establishment of an eRevision portal for the exchange of information, documents between the contracting authority, the investor, the selected tenderer and the State Audit Commission, and other participants in the pre-audit and appeal proceedings. Clearer and in accordance with the institutions of the Public Procurement Act-3, pre-audit, audit and appeal fees shall be regulated. Uniformity of the decision-making of the State Audit Commission shall be ensured through the legislative arrangements of the general meeting. More specifically, oral treatment is regulated and may be called upon by the State Audit Commission in order to properly and fully determine the actual situation. A more appropriate and effective regulation of remedies is provided for the enforcement of legal protection following the conclusion of a contract for the execution of a public contract. The drafting of the bill includes a change in the appointment of the President and the members of the State Audit Commission, but after a thorough consideration of this solution, we are opposed to the Social Democrats. We have not found a valid reason in the proposal itself and also in the working body to support such a change. The applicant stated in a summary of the explanation that the appointment of the President and the members of the State Audit Commission is equivalent to the appointment of the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the guardians of the principle of equality and other functions. The proposal concluded that the appointment of the President and the members of the State Audit Commission in the National Assembly, which takes place through the home working body or the Mandate-voluntary Commission, does not take place in a sufficiently transparent and public manner, but we do not think that this is the case in our Group. Nor is it possible to overlook the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which points out that the President of the Republic does not have a constitutionally proposed function for the appointment of state officials appointed by the National Assembly. If we want to impose new tasks on the President, then we need to think about it and hold a debate and change it to a second, higher level, so stop it. As for the legal solutions that enable the State Audit Commission to work better and more effectively, we certainly support these solutions in our Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u148	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u149	In addition to pursuing the objective of transparency and the cost-effectiveness of public spending, public procurement must also ensure adequate protection and protection of the parties. In terms of the economy and the competitiveness of economic operators, it is important that public procurement rules allow economic operators to access public procurement under equal conditions, the same should apply to legal protection. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that leaving the regulation of this area is too much contractual freedom a solution that can be appropriate for countries with advanced democracy, regulated payment discipline and effective justice, and therefore a high level of legal certainty. We don't reach this level yet. There is still a lot of cartel bargaining, and subcontractors as the weakest party are still under-protected and are often unpaid. And there are still a lot of public procurements arranged for certain bidders. Information on the procedure and the establishment of the eRevision portal is a acquisition that will allow all documents to be made available throughout the process to all those who will take part in the procurement procedures. The oral hearing, launched instead of the current clarification meeting and convened by the State Audit Commission, will help to arrive at a correct and complete conclusion of the actual situation. A new condition is that the President and the members of the State Audit Commission have not been members of the political party body in the last three years before the call is launched, and in our opinion they will not bring added value. Being a member of a political party, so to be politically defined, means almost as much as being a member of a political party body. Members of New Slovenia are much more concerned about the fact that changes in the law bring about a uniform amount of the fee to apply for revision against public publication or tender documentation, regardless of whether it is a low-value contract or other procedures. For comparison. Under the applicable law, the fee for the audit of the procurement of goods or services in the case of a low contract is EUR 1000 500 and EUR 2 000 500 for the construction of the contract. The new proposal in this case sets a uniform fee of EUR 2 000. Thus, the fee for low-value public contracts for goods and services increases, while the construction fee decreases. Under the applicable law, the audit fee for the procurement of goods or services in other procedures that are not low-value public contracts amounts to EUR 3 000 500 and EUR 7 000 for construction. The new bill also sets here a uniform amount of 4 000 euros. Thus, such contracts for goods and services are being increased and they are being reduced for construction. Such a change is questionable because it throws in the same basket all kinds of public contracts, i.e. public procurement of goods or services and public works contracts. However, the fact is that their nature is very different and consequently represents a large price difference in the performance of the contract itself. Unfortunately, our amendment was not adopted at the committee meeting, but in New Slovenia we will still support the amendment of the Law on Legal Protection and Public Procurement Procedures, despite some concerns.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u150	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u151	Thank you, Chairman. I'm watching if there's a glass of water here and I'm afraid he's gone. Attitudes. The law refers to an extremely important area, but it has been a problem for too long. Although almost EUR 4 billion is turned annually through public procurement, insufficient attention is paid to this area's regulation. We do not yet know exactly how much public money is lost in these calls, how much it ends in the pockets of individuals, how much in the pockets of intermediaries, the further adjusted calls of kleptocrats from our quotas, as they like to say in the current coalition, because even SMC has learned this practice quite quickly. The big problem remains cartel negotiation. All of this was pointed out in Levica when a new law on public procurement was adopted. Already there, all the positive changes had one major drawback. Which one? The word “may” or “may”. All security guards and positive features, which would constitute a step forward in the fight against cartel bargaining, fight against the possibility of companies that have failed in previous orders participating in the tenders, and solutions for better protection of workers, better payment discipline to subcontractors, distance from the lowest price as a key criterion for selecting an operator and other solutions include the word "may". This means that the value of the project can also be increased by 200 % in the end so that subcontractors can remain unpaid so that workers can be left unpaid. We also have a problem with the procedures followed by the call for tender. Complaints, which all delay for a few months, sometimes also solely because of speculation. And this law actually applies to this part. Welcome are the solutions that ensure greater transparency, publication, exchange of information through the eRevision, but in itself this will not contribute to major shifts in the right direction unless there are adequate control mechanisms that should be kept on the watch over the whole process. We have a bunch of projects where the whole chain of supervisors has been compromised. TEŠ 6, purchase of medical supplies and materials, construction of tunnels and roads, anti-group fences and could also be listed. Almost every slightly larger project in this country is accompanied by suspicions of corruption, cartel negotiation, several times the price of final project prices. And then there's the annex. We will most likely follow the same stories in the second track project. Also there in Levica we advocate the introduction of democratic control with a body composed of independent experts chosen by a clear key and clear criteria and corresponding to this byte, the Direct National Assembly. We're lonely there, too. Instead, project supervisors are supposed to be appointed by the executive branch and only to respond, of course, exclusively as a consultative body. And that is exactly what our biggest problem is – a system where government authorities control themselves. Overseers and supervisors come from the same kinds in the way they spin, and then we wonder how damage can occur, such as TES 6. Even today, we do not really know how much money flows into the pockets of an individual. There are also numbers that go to billions in public. One billion euros will blow up unknown where, both this government and the coalition and all the previous ones will not find the will or the money to stop it. Why? Because for 25 years we have had pajda's feudalism of the division of spoils under the cover of parliamentary democracy. As it is said, we have not seen any concrete changes in the area of public procurement in this mandate. Any positive changes that occur are either too strong or contain the word “may”. The proposal before us will also not significantly help to improve the situation, so we will not support it in Levica. However, we will support the proposal, which will begin with “must” and I hope that we will also write it together in the next government with coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u152	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u153	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the amendment of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures for the reasons which I will point out below. Firstly, the law under consideration will be aligned with the Public Procurement Act, so-called the 2016 ZJN-3. Secondly, what is of paramount importance is the introduction of useful solutions that can increase efficiency, rationality, transparency and predictability in procurement procedures, thus contributing to reducing corruption risks and enhancing healthy competition and the rational use of public funds. Let me give you some of these solutions. I.D.'s. With the establishment of the eRevision portal, we will acquire an extremely large number of documents, as all documents for all the documents involved will be available. This brings about a reduction in administrative expenditure and a reduction in procedures. An obligation to convene a general meeting shall be introduced. This ensures uniformity of decisions, which increases legal certainty and predictability in procurement procedures, particularly in the case of legal protection. More specifically, an oral hearing shall be initiated which may be convened by the State Audit Commission on its own or on the proposal or initiative of the proposers. The possibility of nullity and dissuasiveness is also envisaged. All of this, when we have examined it, we have decided that this bill is also worth supporting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u154	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you once again for your word, President, and also for your presence. Although the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures has only been amended three years ago, it is necessary to amend the amendment resulting from the adoption of a new Public Procurement Act in this mandate. Before the government or the competent department decided on this step, it carried out a thorough international comparative legal review. The key dilemma in preparing this novel was whether to maintain the current system or to strengthen legal protection by ensuring that complaints against the decisions of the State Audit Commission are possible. International comparisons of the duration of the proceedings show that the legal proceedings are longer than those of specialised bodies, so that decisions are taken at the second and possibly at the third stage. The EU-level review even shows that the Slovenian legal protection regime in procurement procedures is one of the most effective and that the appeals procedures established by some countries against the decisions of independent audit bodies are significantly worse, meaning also the longevity of audit procedures. In addition, there are problems with uneven case law. The transfer of decision-making from a specialised body to a judicial system also raises questions about the competence of decision-making. This necessarily means that any other institutional arrangements for legal protection in the Republic of Slovenia would have a significant impact on speed and efficiency, so that the establishment of a complaint by the court would certainly extend the audit procedures, which would certainly result in certain disruptions. In addition, in the context of the ruling on the proposal for a transitional decision submitted by the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures, the Court of Justice of the EU issued a judgment this June, which, inter alia, concludes that the State Audit Commission for the Review of Public Procurement Procedures meets the criteria that it can be considered a court of a Member State within the meaning of Article 267 of the Treaty on the EU. That is why the government has decided not to go into radical change, but only to improve, and this is also supported by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. The main solutions to this bill have already been presented in these procedures before us. However, as regards the appointment of the President and the members of the State Audit Commission, we have decided that the appointment method in the National Assembly is appropriate. We have estimated that, in practice so far, there has been no evidence that changes would be necessary or that candidates would be decided by another body. However, an amendment to Article 35 will be tabled for the session of the assembly, which will maintain the powers of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in the selection of candidates for the seats of the President and members of the State Audit Commission. In view of the fact that the method of appointment remains the same, we also assess that there is no need for an oath before the National Assembly. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a law and an amendment to Article 35. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u156	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Ten. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? There is no longer any interest in the debate, so I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby adjourn this agenda item and the 34th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u157	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 7, 6, 5, 4, 8 and 15 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Space in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 44. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! I will make an explanation in this article 44, the amendment speaks of the obligations of the municipal urbanist. In fact, I'm going to talk about all the amendments that have been tabled in this law. We do not support these amendments at this stage, nor will we support the law itself. All these amendments that are on the table today are trying to improve some matter that can be arranged with amendments. This was pointed out through the debate in the first reading, when we had a lot of comments from the institutions. Also, in the second reading on the home work body, the position of the Law-Legal Service was very explicit in this respect that, despite all the good will you put into the coalition and the amendments that have been tabled on the home work body, it will not be possible to improve the law to the extent that it also complies with all the legal provisions that are necessary. As a result, it is likely that when the marriage takes effect, the marriage will soon be heard in a higher instance. That's why we can't support any of these. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u159	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u160	amendments, because, despite the fact that amendments may make sense in one segment of the matter, it is not possible to remedy the whole law simply by amending it to this extent in order to be acceptable in the final stage. [[…]] I think that, in practice, it will cause a lot of problems in implementation itself, and I would therefore like to point out that there is likely to be an assessment in any of these articles. With amendments, however, it is simply not possible to correct the whole matter, since each of these amendments also refers to the other two laws, which we will vote on later. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will not support any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u161	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 45 for them and 9 for them. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 50. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 52 votes against and 9 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 58. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 14 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 63. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll say it again because most of us are still here. During the five-and-a-half-hour debate, we were brought together on behalf of our group, I, on behalf of New Slovenia, colleague Lah, some SDS Members, and this was then almost over, colleague Verbič of SMC and president of MDT, who did not participate very well. When such important legislation changes, it distorts the interests of everyone here. We all live in space, in time, in Kant we are time-space beings because they are space and time a prior categories of spirit. You probably know what that means at home. At the time of receiving this threesome, which is mildly inconvenient, and with any other amendment I will explain it, there will also come the professions involved. I have to argue a little with my space sociologists and sociologists that they didn't come forward socially, but we're so freaky. And with these three key professions, the landscape architects and architects were briefly drawn here. Somehow in some implementation of a colleague from the SMC representing the architectural lobby, I can say quite frankly, because he told me that this amendment is populist if you go to see how many landscapers and landscapers there are in Slovenia, how many architects there are, and I don't want to be offensive to architects, but another colleague from SMC talked about investors. In Slovenia, the largest investor or state or municipality is actually in construction. We have a whole series of undergraduate, postgraduate education where people are learning about environmental and spatial issues. With this law, and even worse by this third law, in fact, apart from architects, we tell everyone else that they are second and third-rate experts. I don't think a message like this should be acceptable to the National Assembly. And I said in the debate that Minister and Presidential candidate SMC and SD Minister Irena should point out to the Government and say, wait, this can't go on, we have to be responsible, and given the nature of the individual project that we are going to finance, but from the beauty of these experts, such a group, such a rainbow, will not happen to us any more Keminplasty, so that we won't get complicated if you want around Magna, that we won't get caught up around the Prekmursky pipeline, that they'll legalise lower walls so that the White Country will get connected. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u163	Time's up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone! Here I must point out in particular that it is not a matter of putting the landscape architects in second place. Each profession has its mission and purpose and, of course, architects are like the very word derived from the Greek word “archy” when it comes to building over all others within the systems of skills and knowledge they master. In this respect, it was the landscape architects who turned to their colleague, Trče. If the architects turned around, he'd play another record. So it is not a matter of returning dignity to landscape architects, they are for landscape editing and for design within structures that relate to green and park arrangements and others, and architects regulate the rest. Here we have to be discovered, pour ourselves a clean wine, architects make spatial plans and spatial acts, and landscape architects have one other segment. Today, the debate has already taken place in this respect. I'll use the same medical illustrations again. If your stomach hurts, you go to the gastroenterologist, the gynecologist is for one thing and another. So, colleague Trček and everyone else, we must accept that architects are doing what they are most qualified to do, and this has also been confirmed by comparisons of the curriculums of these two professions when it comes to education. I will vote against this and we will vote against it in the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u165	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. An explanation in its own name, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. If he can be partially abused, he can be abused, but not really. But you know, it's an ideology in the purest form. In one party there is someone above, others are below, in Levica we are even more passionate in sexual practices, let alone on some serious topics like this. It's embarrassing when, in fact, SMC wants to grab something that it can't, argumentatively. Dear colleague Bane, I'm talking to everyone about any subject. Okay, not with the fascists. I've also spoken to the president of your housing association. I've been negotiating with everyone, literally. I'm not going to say I'm slapping together for this, either, but that's actually why this is happening. You're just representing some kind of interest. Okay, legally legitimate, great. And even comparisons with medicine aren't exactly your best. I have two out of five students studying medicine. You're both pretty good students. You also need medicine when your stomach hurts, because there's not a stomach that's gonna blow you away, and there's another thing I don't care about. But it's actually unresponsible and irresponsible and disrespectful. Also insanely disrespectful to a party made up of a whole series of doctors and a whole series of university professors. But maybe you're just interested in a set-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u167	That there will be a debate, that is not an explanation of vote, but fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u168	I will certainly vote in favour because I would go against it, and I mean it, Milan, against my basic professional dignity and professional deontology. The SMC would say beyond ethics and morals of their own professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u169	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 58. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 86. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u170	Look, then I won't be answering. It's in these amendments. This is just some kind of roofing law, how we're going to regulate space in this society and in this country. I had a hockey metaphor in the debate. I love watching hockey. Hockey is a fast, dynamic game, you've got flying hockey shifts. Body check, which we sometimes have here. But you can't pass a roof law, you can't make an amendment in the way of hockey. Now you've got one amendment, now you've got another, now you've got a third. I very much appreciate the secretary of the working body, the committee, because I've already said that he probably doesn't get it if he says so. Even the Minister's not coming. And we can't pass a roof marriage like that, and then you say, let's have a third treatment at this session. Stop acting like a fool! Those who will be responsible for this minister, minister or minister of the environment and space must have 8 euros of net wages because they will live less for 15 years to have at least a good grief. And that's the problem, and that's why we're going to vote against it. It's not funny. It's a tragedy. It's not funny. What's so funny? 200 pages of the amendments you give us Friday night, you know, we don't all live in Ljubljana, we can't all take a puppy for a walk during the session. I come home three days later to read those amendments. These amendments violate the other two marriages, as Dana said. The head of the homework body is making a fool of us because I really said there at the meeting that it would take fourteen days to study this thoroughly. However, in order to put this legislation seriously in order, it would be possible for my experts to do so by the end of this term in order to approximate it. And probably all the other clients, too. Sometimes it's better not to accept anything, no matter what you write down to accept. Because this is going to be a constitutional judgment. because they will hold their heads in the congregations to what they will do out of it. Let's be serious, and I'm speaking as a spatial sociologist. Whatever they think in Desus, I'm an expert. You can kill me, and one less. But you didn't pick up, and for one second you didn't talk, and your secretary is here, and in five hours, there's eleven of you. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u171	We're voting. Peace in the hall! There are 67 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 12. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 108. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the NSI Group of Members of the Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u172	One of the greatest indications on the part of our parliamentary group to this law is that it prolongs the procedure but not reduces it. We didn't get any clear answers here that that's not the case. It should be. That is why we have tried to shorten this process as much as possible with the amendments to the 111th Article. The beginning of the OPN shall normally begin with the mayor's decision on the change brush or the beginning of the production of the OPN. The basis for the decision must also be the starting points for the preparation of the OPN. Usually, it is clear that if the congregation decides to make a change, it must indicate what it wants to change. This is usually very cheaply written, so much so that something is, we want this and that, something to do and the conclusion to be published. We have proposed here to add the fourth paragraph of Article 108, that the starting points for the preparation of the OPR are a mandatory annex to the decision on the preparation of the OPR. In order to make the starting points more precise and professionally clear why the UN is changing, because, on the basis of this, it would be possible to give the first opinions in the draft space regulators so concrete that further questions on opinions would not be necessary and would reduce the process. That is why we have proposed that this paragraph should still be in there, because otherwise it must be, because it should be in there, it should be the starting point, but it should also be said that it is mandatory. Then we could cut down on the procedures. Of course, it is necessary to change this law, but to prepare seriously at the start for these changes. In this law, however, this does not explicitly say so, and in my opinion, the procedures will be as long as they are now, or even longer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u173	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u174	Good day, dear Messengers and Messengers! The next three amendments tabled by Nova Slovenija begin with this amendment to Article 108, and virtually all three have the same content. This is to shorten the procedure for adopting the municipal spatial plan in a way that combines certain phases. In Novi Slovenija, it seems unacceptable that the adoption of municipal spatial plans takes so long that the procedures are so complicated and anything that contributes to these things being reduced is welcome. Since Member Trček was extremely active in this matter, I must admit here honestly that we did not prepare these amendments ourselves, but helped us prepare a profession that deals daily with municipal spatial plans and knows exactly where things overlap, for example, where public divisiveness and the search for certain guidelines could be linked and merged. And in this direction, these three amendments are prepared. If you look now at the last case of Magna, which is a chronic example of how unregulated our spatial legislation is, then I am sure that we must set ourselves in this house as a goal so that we can get a building permit because spatial documents are crucial on the basis of concrete, normal, everyday laws, but not with certain specific laws for a particular investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u175	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. These three amendments to Articles 108, 111 and 114 are logically linked and also very logical. Those who have ever worked as municipal councilor or mayor of the UNOK know that if I now take the position of municipal councillor and decide on the decision to prepare the UNO, but I need to know which direction this UNO will go, I need to know the right starting point. If these starting points for me are bad, pointless or whatever you want, then I probably will not vote in favour of the decision on the preparation of the OPN. It is also important that we be able to shorten for two months, three months, even if we shorten the whole procedure for preparing or adopting the UN. I find these additions extremely logical, or if you want, they're from good practice. I don't know if anyone here has a problem not to put in place good practice and make it better and move on. It is probably in everyone's interest that these marathon bureaucratic procedures in the adoption of the UN, where Slovenians are certainly recorders, I hope to say, within the European Union after the duration of these procedures. Now let's cut them down for a nuance. Here we find this amendment of our Group of Members extremely logical, and I believe that you have thought this through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u177	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 47. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 111. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 47. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 114. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 46. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 131. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 165. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Look, time is money, and my procedural proposal is to shorten it. To the end are only amendments to the coalition, you will support them all, you will vote all, we cannot go on like this, we will abstain. I propose, presidents, that all the amendments to this law be put to the vote in "hus", you will be "happy", you will "spare" time, and you will be able to walk home the puppy first. Thank you for your word. It's not funny, it's horrible!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u179	I cannot accept such a procedural proposal in any way, but I must also declare that the amendment to Article 165 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 173. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 182. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, with 52-10 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 194. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 206. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 220. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 249. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 250. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to the first chapter of the transitional and final provisions. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer for the new Article 265.a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to the new Article 265.a becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to the new 265.a. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 285. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 287. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 289. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 294. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to a new chapter to the final provision of Article 298. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 299. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Chapter 17. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Procedurally, ma'am. [[advertising from the hall]] No, there's no explanation for that. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u180	Yeah, I know there's no explanation, I'm sorry. I'm already announcing that I'm going to abuse procedurally. Look, whoever's listening to this, and if we don't have a brain, they know that this moment doesn't even know what's been voted on. With all due respect to her, with all the bailing, because she fell, as we say in Styria, into a big boulevard, she has to deal with it because the previous suit didn't do it. At the same meeting, it is so extremely irresponsible for anyone to vote for it and anyone else to elect it in this national assembly, that the electorate really has to ask for the mental state. Because such a responsibility must not be afforded! I thank you for your reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u181	For a reminder, yes. [[Laughing in the hall]] We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that, in the second reading, the assembly adopted amendments to Articles 44, 50, 58, 86, 131, 165, 173, 182, 194, 206, 220, 249 and 250, to the title of the first chapter of the transitional and final provisions, the amendment to the new Article 265.a, to Articles 285, 287, 289 and 294, to the new chapter of the final provision, to Article 299 and to the 17th chapter of the amended proposal. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u182	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. We have found that the amendments adopted have led to non-compliance with certain provisions of the law, so we are predicting that by the third reading we will be preparing a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u183	We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the Government has pointed out that after the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly, I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item on Tuesday 24. Ten. 2017. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Construction Law under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2017. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will give this first amendment the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. None of these amendments will be supported, because the basis of the law itself is so bad that in the four-phase correction of the foundation or if I say otherwise, you can fix the bad test I don't know how many times, there will be no good bread. And even with this building law, that's the way it is. Instead of shortening the procedures, you significantly extend the procedures through the newly established institutes of the Regional Spatial Plan, a spatial council is established, and 32 new jobs are foreseen, plus new employment in administrative units. The growth of institutions does not mean a reduction in procedures, which means a longer journey, longer time and more administrative procedures. The following will also be very interesting financial consequences, which will affect the congregations more or less, and they will bear this burden. But this explanation is very interesting that the financial implications for the work of the congregations will be negligible. On the other hand, the positive financial effects on the community’s side are precisely due to the legalization of both simple objects and other illegal constructions, and these numbers are enormously large. It is said that citizens prepare wallets, they will have to be very wide open, because only over simple objects are envisaged to raise 31 million EUR 800 000. And above other constructions, including payment of all criminal proceedings and also charges, payment of municipal contributions and so on in 2018 128 million, in 2019 35 million and in 2020 35 million. This is said to be a significant replenishment of the state budget already since 2018, namely 125 million. It is only right that this matter is settled, but the bill is not just filled with new taxes, because the burdens of citizens are enormous. Of course, there will be no support for the Slovenian Democratic Party in such a process and in such legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u185	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour and 12 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 43. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour and 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 109. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 14 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left for a new 109.a. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am following this to a large extent, and in the meantime I have remembered that I have said this in Parliament once before, that a previous reference by the English Parliament and members of the labour force, a committee that would be comparable to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, took one week to education from urbanism and architecture. It seems to me that, in fact, except maybe seven, eight of us, maybe ten, Jani doesn't sound, and he's a mayor, and he's probably getting to know these things, in short, so that some 80 of us have to take you to this kind of education. In this education, even one of us could teach you, we could organize it in the house, but I'm not just thinking about myself here. If I touch our amendment. We don't ask ourselves why we have black construction. Most people aren't bad guys. The bastards are your pals' feudalism friends who built something. Unfortunately, also the Ski Association of Slovenia, which has three times the size of a capture in the middle of Pokluka, has made no one seriously, the 3rd branch of power, process. And the inspectorate doesn't and so on. We will have to legalize matters — why? Because the people and all the governments that you have been, including since we have independent Slovenia, have not been able to provide people with adequate professional assistance. In this country, no one seriously deals with under 40 years of age. We have a lot of great experts. Some of my students went to zero to study housing cooperatives. Minister, you're supposed to be hanging out there to shut them down, and you're gonna start working on it right now. But we have that logic again. We will now punish people because the country has not offered them some basic education. Spatial and environmental education is part of primary education in serious comparable education systems that I study. I don't know, go interview your brother at dinner, I'm doing a little local commercial with Oliver Vodeb, how it's going in Australia. Mark Zorko wrote about it years ago. You can Google, you'll tweet a little less, and you'll get a little education. We in this amendment, as well as in the other one, are actually narrowing down quite a bit what can be legalized, to put an end to these practices. I know a lot of you don't agree with that. Then I'll continue to explain in two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u187	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thanks for the follow-up. You see, adults should also be educated. We're gonna live a long time, we're an old society, we're old knowledge. We would actually to people because there were some concerns about what then comes out if our amendment is accepted. However, the responsible country with nine and a half billion budgets should help people in a way, and I will use the terminology of the Court of Auditors, corrective measures. What does that mean? This means that the masonry, which some colleague likes to mention, get some small image, similar to, if I put it in Belarusian, perhaps also in a way that organizes some tablecloths into a cooperative, because you have a secretary of state in the President's office, and offers some type of venocularity, according to the local view, the regional division of the building's heritage as we have it. These are some serious things. You're all going to beat each other's chests like the Slovenians, you're going to fasten your badges like that, and you're going to have different, fifth, sixth, and in 25 years we haven't done that, or you haven't done that. And that's a problem to start dealing with. That you're here to gloat at me, that my colleague, who was also the mayor himself, says, take care of yourself, that some other colleague sends me to the field, but he talks a lot more about you than he talks about me personally. It says you're not fit for this function. And if that seems unethical and immoral to you. You're not. I will, of course, support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u189	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 55. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 112. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 114. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 55. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 116. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 15. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 121. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 12. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 20. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly adopted amendments to Articles 3, 43, 109, 112, 116 and 121 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask whether they intend to make amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The proposal for a construction law is substantively linked to the proposal for a law is substantively linked to the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises and to the proposal for an Act on architectural and engineering activities. Since the National Assembly will vote in the harmonisation amendment to the Proposal for a Law on the regulation of premises on Tuesday, 24. Ten. 2017, in view of the substantive link between those draft laws and the need for their simultaneous publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, under the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I provide that the assembly will also decide on the draft construction law in its entirety on Tuesday, 24. Ten. 2017. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Now, unfortunately for many of you, I'm covering for it. Now in this threesome of marriages, we've come to a marriage that deals with people who are supposed to do it, which we embarrassedly or awkwardly confirmed earlier. I've seen your reactions before, when the Minister responded, when we voted all of ours, how is that? So much for you as Members after three years. But good. The first three amendments to Articles 4 to 8 and 9. In Article 4, we do not agree in Levica to regulate regulated professions in the manner proposed by colleague Rajić and SMC that we have a highly regulated profession of architects and everyone else. Why not? I've explained before. In Article 8, we define more clearly, based on the importance of the horizontal of these professions, from which schools people can come into these professions. I'm going to have to argue with my expert a little bit, because I might add a "environmental" in there, which of course you won't support. Especially after the events at Vrhnika and where I think that would be necessary. In Article 9, this story is once again preluded. I've already fought volunteer practices at the FDV. Young people who are educated for this should be given an appropriate job. We still have legislation that basically says that if you do the same work, that it is a job — for what time? But you've forgotten all the governments for the past 15 years, I would hope to argue. Yes, it is, too, that slager word of mine, close to unconstitutionality, if your actions are not already unconstitutional. Also because of this, the omices, the pensions are low, in case anyone hears them. In these three amendments, we are actually dealing with what Levica is already dealing with for the entire mandate. We take care of our work in order to avoid capital and jobs. The work of honor and power may have been cried out to some of you who were in the old regime in a party. Now in a new regime, until we come to democratic socialism, our responsible task is a responsible attitude towards employees, a responsible attitude towards professionals, after all, it is a responsible difficult serious study for those who are seriously studied. And it is also appropriate that this temple of democracy, as you would like to say, should show a certain dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u191	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 5 votes in favour and 58 votes in favour. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 8. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 59. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 9. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 58. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 14. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 58. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 50. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 11. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 55(1). Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We propose to add a new second paragraph to the first paragraph of Article 55, which reads: "To an individual who, upon the application of this law, has obtained the power of an authorised spatial planner with a licence P and has obtained this authorisation until 31. 12. 2016, the name of the authorised spatial planner under this Act shall be given. In so doing, the P-licensor must have at least 7 years of working experience in the production of spatial implementing acts, submit at least 5 of the reference works in the area of spatial implementing acts in which he has participated and carry out an expert examination for the licence of the authorised spatial planner under this Act.’ Thus, the present second and third paragraphs shall become paragraphs 3 and 4 respectively. Let me explain. Those who have so far produced spatial implementation plans and have had a lot of experience could simply fail to do their job under this law. These are probably quite a lot, so we suggest that they get an exception, some right to pass the exam, and, therefore, with the references, they get this opportunity to continue this work, irrespective of the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u193	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 44. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 55(2). We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 56. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 58. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments and second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted amendments to Articles 50, 55, 56 and 58 of the amended Law. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering is substantively linked to the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Space and the Proposal for a Construction Law. Since the National Assembly on the Coordination Amendment to the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Space will vote on Tuesday, 24. Ten. 2017, in view of the substantive link between those draft laws and in view of the need for them to be published simultaneously in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 86(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I provide that the assembly will also decide on the Proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering on Tuesday, 24. Ten. 2017. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Triglav National Park following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Look, there's an example of this innovation, I can almost say, an ideal typical example of the extreme range of this government and this coalition. We have economic growth beyond this export-based government on low wages, on overcrowded people. And if so, we should now make up our minds and talk about how we will drive this cart out of this mud. What are we doing? Why is it an ideal typical case? With a few solutions, which no one here can be against, to arrange some road, to arrange a few more covered for actual artificial snowfall, there is an ideal typist. A school case of black construction in this country. For what? Because if we don't, we're gonna pay the penalty. We should pay the penalty to start with responsible conscience both until the time and until the money. Time is money, too. It took a small million time and work of too many people to cover this bastard. What am I talking about? We have a hatch, we have a biathlon, we have a minefield, we need artificial snowing, the documents allowing ski links to make such a hole where the water will stand, they've made three times the hole. Then it all covered up for me. If we were to go into a new parliament and make a 1:15 bigger, damn it, all the reporters would go mad. But here's where we're gonna burn it. What kind of message is this? That's a message, if you're big enough, if you're political enough with someone in power, we'll cover your bastards. This law – and for this reason we will be held back, we support other matters here – but because of this law, because you bring such a scourge to good solutions, it overpowers the good purpose of all the three laws that we have been discussing all day. And that's unacceptable and extremely irresponsible. However, we will abstain from voting because of those good solutions. Look, stop talking to me about the environment and space in this term! Really. Stop coming out of my coalition because you're forcing me to throw up. I woke up this morning at 4:00 this morning, because of all the shit you're doing, I can't sleep.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u195	We're voting. I'm sorry, I'm breaking up. Who else wants to? I didn't see it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, President. In our parliamentary group, we will support this law this time, so that we support things that solve real problems in real life. In this case, there are three such cases that the law actually solves through this novel in practice. But it is true that I can also join the speaker here so that perhaps some novelty of this law on Triglav National Park could be adopted earlier, which would be more systematic to deal with such problems that we are solving now with these ad hoc solutions, which, as I said, are necessary and we support them. However, I have repeatedly pointed out that it is a major problem that we do not hope to make a quality leap in the story of Triglav National Park, including the fact that since 2013, this public institution has been operating with the CEO and that this story does not end until the end of the term of office of this coalition, as the last appointment for the perpetrator of the duties has been extended for the next 6 months. The Minister will have to move very quickly if she wants to resolve this matter by January of the second year when the term of office expires. Perhaps a number of the problems we are now facing in this novel could be resolved substantially earlier if a public institution were to deal with some normal staff, which means that it has a director who can also prepare and coordinate some things in the long term. That is why there are many comments from local communities and things will continue to get complicated. The Minister also promised to resolve the situation that we have repeatedly highlighted on the home labour body, namely cycling in the third area, in the third protected area of the park where cycling is not allowed. In the second and first areas, which are more protected by nature, this is allowed, and we have all found that this is probably a lapsus. When we asked the secretary when it would be, she said, at her first novel. Now it was a novelty and we didn't solve it. At the same time, the minister said she would arrange it in the fall and prepare a new law. It's in the magnetograms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u197	A little peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u198	Given that neither the Director nor the Director has been appointed, I am afraid that the National Assembly will probably have to make another such novelty, even if my colleague Trček is unable to sleep because of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u199	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on State Meteorological, Hydrological, Oceanographic and Seismological Services under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Dr. FrancTrček.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. We have two more cases of ideally typical legislation of this coalition and the government. This case is an example of people being pushed a little. The same was true of leadership. In this, you're putting some anxiety into a few experts. We have somehow tried on the committee to explain to us the substantive and reasoned reasons why this is necessary. But we didn't get this argument because of your arrogance, and what we're going to explain to this Levi. As a result, this second ideally typical case of the laws of this government and the coalition will be maintained this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u201	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 17. Ten. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 35. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendment and second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 13. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 35 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the national working body or the National Assembly at second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Last time today. This is a third ideal example of legislation, which unfortunately does not apply only to this call by the National Assembly and to this coalition and government. Why? Where in Slovenia are the biggest robberies taking place? The largest robberies occur in public procurements of about four billion, here and in particular in the city’s municipalities or what we call holding around the city’s municipalities. When you're in the opposition, he likes to moralize. When Mr Cerar was only a constitutional lawyer, he was happy to write about it. Look, now make me growl, go brother, what is posted on Facebook by Janko Weber, Vice President of the Social Democrats. Just go and read what it's been publishing for the last six months. I also said that if the Jew wants to do government with us, we'll go through all that week and they won't be half-assed, John laughs like in the department, but I hope they'll be in the closed ward if the third branch of power plays their part. That's not funny. This is where you get fat and grow up for 25 years. That's what the gentleman in Desus says. Take care of yourself. Or what their lord says about the state forests, oh, it was finally time for me to come to heaven. This kind of coming to heaven has to end. Let those who believe in heaven go to heaven, and to citizens and citizens, if we cannot already offer Paradise on earth, we must offer a better life. And here are the pennies, here's where he steals from serious studies about a billion a year. If anyone is first, Desus should be willing to have at least €700 pension for pensioners. And what is the problem with this marriage? This law is once again “chagav”, Cerajevska “chagav”. That's the morality and the ethics. It has some good elements, yes, well, in the 21st century 2017 we will finally make this a little transparent, we will digitise it. Yes, hello! I did digitization 25, 30 years ago, and a colleague sitting in seat 90 probably did IT 40 or 35 years ago. This speaks of this national assembly, this country and this policy. And then it can be written, can, can, can, can. He steals with a shovel, just like Cerar did with a shovel yesterday, but you can, you can, you can, you can, you can. No, I hope that in the next call of the National Assembly, Left will write this together in some coalition, and that's where we have to write.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u203	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 34th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I thank all for the cooperation, participation and debate and for the possibility of intensive voting training for the adoption of the budget expected in November. Have a nice day!
