ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Vesna Vervega by 2 p.m., Ludmila Novak, Iva Dimic between 13 and 16 p.m., Tomaž Gantar, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec by 12 p.m., Dr. Dragan Matić by 20 p.m., Daniel Krivec, Franz Breznik and Jožef Horvat by 16 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Intervention Measures to Ensure the Financial Stability of Public Health Institutions, whose founder is the Republic of Slovenia, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly; honourable Members and honourable Members! The difficult liquidity situation of public health institutions is due to the austerity measures that have been taken in the past to ensure the balance of operations of the health sector. During the period 2009-2014, the focus of the austerity measures was on the linear reduction in health service prices for all health activities. At the time of taking over the mandate of this government, hospitals had more than € 130 million in accumulated expenditure on income. At the end of 2016, 170 million. The consequences of this situation are also increasingly unresolved obligations. The Government shall be responsible as the founder of public institutions in accordance with Article 49 of the Law on Institutions. With the proposed law, we will also fulfil this responsibility. The proposed intervention law should therefore be adopted in order to maintain the smooth implementation of the public health service and the provision of health services. Without the adoption of these measures and without additional budgetary resources, the operation of hospitals would be compromised and thus limited or even impossible to carry out the public health service. There is also a high risk for the execution and cessation of supplies of medicinal products, medical devices and other materials by suppliers. The funds of €136.24 million will be provided to hospitals this year, following the implementation of the law in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Public Finance Act and the annual law on the implementation of budgets. At the same time, the planned fiscal consolidation is not at risk. The proposed law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of institutions has two key solutions for the rehabilitation of hospitals. The first set includes one-off measures for the financial recovery of the operation of health institutions: provision of funds from the State budget to cover 80% of the expenditure on hospital revenues from previous years per 31st year. 12. 2016 in the amount of €136.24 million; write-off of the outstanding claims of the Ministry of Health for the merger of depreciation amounting to €7 million and the amendment of payment deadlines for public health institutions. The second set of measures includes the implementation of rehabilitation in public health establishments which receive funds under this Act. A seven-member recovery committee shall be established as the expert advisory body of the Minister of Health, who shall provide guidance and monitor the course of rehabilitation of health institutions; with all tasks and powers of management bodies. The current hospital management will continue its work as rehabilitation agencies to prepare and implement the rehabilitation programme. The draft law also provides for the purpose of using the funds obtained. We are convinced that the draft law with the proposed measures represents a proper solution to the situation. Together with the systemic measures that will follow in the coming months, we will ensure stable and sustainable funding, which will result in better access to health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Branko Zorman, Vice-President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u4	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! I will read the report of the Health Committee to the Proposal for an Intervention Act to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. The Health Committee is at its 34th emergency session. 9. 2017 as a parent working body, the draft law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the websites of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 104th session. 9. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, gave an introductory explanation on behalf of the proposer and stressed that the proposed law meant the realization of the decision of the Government of Slovenia, which in July 2017 addressed the analysis of the causes of the deficits in public health institutions. The main objective of the bill is the financial recovery of the operation of public health institutions with a view to ensuring business and payment stability by measures to cover expenditure on past years' revenues to hospitals by the founder in the form of a single transfer of 80 % of the expenditure surpluses over past years on 31 December 2016, totalling EUR 136.24 million. At the same time, a measure of write-off of unpaid claims by the Ministry of Health for the merger of depreciation is also introduced before the adoption of an investment law in these institutions of EUR 7.03 million. The funds will be used to pay outstanding liabilities to suppliers, delivered goods and services resulting from the provision of the public service and to pay loans under the single treasury account and to commercial banks hired to finance liquid liquidity. The law also provides for the optimisation of the management and management of hospitals and the rehabilitation of the operation of hospitals in the medium term. Sanitation agencies will operate in individual public hospitals to implement the rehabilitation programme. They will work on the basis of the starting points and guidance of the seven-member recovery committee, which will guide and supervise the implementation of the rehabilitation. The adoption of the law is essential in order to ensure the stability and smooth implementation of public health services at secondary and tertiary levels and thus to ensure that patients are fully accessible to health services. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that this law and additional financial resources do not fully constitute a long-term stabilisation of the financing of public health institutions, and has therefore adopted an additional decision which gave the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, by mid-November 2017, a proposal for measures to enable the price of health services to be raised in 2018. Minister of Finance Mag. Mateja Vraničar Erman further stressed that the financial framework of the intervention law was prepared taking into account and respecting the public financial objectives for 2017. In view of the extent of the resources to be provided, the Government has also adopted a decision, together with the adoption of the draft law, to suspend the implementation of the budget, in accordance with Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, to initiate the procedure for preparing the budget rebalancing. The balance of the budget needs to be drawn up because the volume of services provided additionally for public health institutions exceeds the extent that the government can redistribute to an individual item in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. The proposal for a budget rebalancing will be prepared in accordance with the timetable foreseen by the Public Finance Act and will take into account the actual solutions adopted in the draft law, since the adoption and implementation of this law will have financial implications for the budget. With regard to the issue of unlawful State aid, the competent institutions responsible did not see the proposed law as a measure representing State aid, but as a measure of unlawful State aid. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and had drawn up comments on the individual article of the proposal. The Committee's proposals for amendments take most of the comments into account. The Committee has adopted amendments to certain articles. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. In early September, the media published two important news. The first news was that the government would approve €136 million for hospital rehabilitation. The second news was that the government would spend at least EUR 200 million to buy new patriots. What's interesting about this is, obviously, no one but the Left has a problem getting new patriots. However, if you have been accompanying the Health Committee, you have seen that in Novi Slovenija and Slovenian Democratic Parties have terrible problems with hospital rehabilitation. We'd like to turn them in American into economic profit machines that serve on the back of people's health. And what we haven't heard on this committee. They complained that the government was throwing money into a deposit box. Give me one bigger Slovenian Army investment to hold water! They complained that the money would still be taken away by corruption. The Patria affair is the mother of all corruption affairs and the new tender is dilettarian – it is silence itself. We've been listening again to the story of overpaid venous cords. Yeah, of course, it's terrible that these venous cords are overpaid. And no wonder they're overpaid when we don't have a public company to buy medical supplies. But today, a few thousand Slovenians are living and healthy, while most of the patriots are not driving at all, and otherwise have nothing to do with the defense of our country. What do you want me to say? Poor country led by politicians who are convinced that some kind of commitment to NATO has a priority over the health of their own citizens. Poor country where members of the Slovenian Democratic Party threaten the government with an action before the European Commission for unlawful State aid. It's hospitals, it's our hospitals, we don't have anyone else. Would you rather wait for them to become illiquid and start rejecting patients?Oh, my God! Each of us must have had some bad experience with the health system, but Slovenian general doctor is as good as Austrian, Slovenian hospital mainly. The results of the health system are comparable to that of Austria, which by no means applies to the Slovenian economy. If you look at our GDP, this is half the size of Austrian. Therefore, no one is blubbering over economists; on the contrary, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, are demanding a decommissioning of the economy. That is why I say that it is a matter of maligning public health with one goal: privatising health institutions and commercialising health insurance. That's what those earners, insurance companies, the political right hand who are most responsible for the problems that have arisen. As I said on the board, the Left is absolutely in favour of hospital rehabilitation. I also said that this rehabilitation should be carried out in the way of health workers who are not responsible for the problems encountered. I asked the Minister if they would lose their jobs because of the rehabilitation. I'm afraid I didn't get the answer. Therefore, I repeat the question: Can you guarantee that the rehabilitation will not result in the dismissal of health workers? Can you guarantee that there will be no outsourcing in the workplaces of caregivers, cleaners and support staff who are already in the worst position. Unfortunately, there is no security guard on paper in this law, so we cannot support it either. In any event, the long-term survival of Slovenian public health will require a more radical cut. Cut in the event of unjustified award of concessions and unfair charging of commercial insurance companies with supplementary health insurance to citizens and citizens. Only in this way will we open new, fair and solidarity sources of funding for the Slovenian public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u8	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues, vice president, minister! The law that we now have on the table is a necessary step in solving the health problems that have accumulated; and that is why we will also support it in our parliamentary group. 136.24 million euros will be provided to our Slovenian hospitals for payment of past liabilities, in fact, debts. The state will also pay its debts to itself, treasurers. The biggest problem is that at the moment the money to pay these debts is not guaranteed. The balance will be when it is; and the money will be when it is, if the coalition is even able to accept it. There are some facts to be said. The majority of these losses occurred in 2016 as a percentage. Between 2009 and 2014, a total of 130 million totalled, representing just over EUR 20 million per year. In 2016 alone, this amount is EUR 50 million. The same is true in 2017. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, you must take the greatest part of this sin, which we are curing today, on your shoulders. You have raised wages on the one hand because the crisis is no longer; but on the other hand, the price of services needs to be adjusted. In 2017, you even reduced the price of services by a few percent, which simply does not count. The second fact is that even the euro of what we have on the table today will not go to reducing waiting lines. No patient is going to be on the job first because of this marriage. Yes, hospitals will only receive supplies, it is correct and logical; and the state should also pay its services or what it receives in time; but because of this law, the waiting line will not be shorter for any patient. I think it's right that we make this clear and loud. This law should be on the table as soon as the government takes over. When you make commitments, when you increase wages, when you increase your obligations to health institutions, you also have to provide them with money at the same time. Unfortunately, you didn't do it. You've raised wages and reduced the payment of services. I think that's very irresponsible. This reduced service has already been in force throughout 2017. Second, it is important to note that those who did not do their best will be rewarded here in some way. Those who did what they had to do, they're not gonna get that money. And I don't think that's right either. What will be the task of the recovery committees, how the relationship between the saints of institutions, between the boards, during the leadership – all this is simply lacking in this law. I personally worry that there will be a lot of open problems on the table when the law begins to be implemented. And once again, I would like to point out that these 136 million have not yet been secured. Today you confirm a law that has no financial margin, for the first time. This is the first time in the history of Slovenia you have adopted such a difficult law without funds. And there's something else I have to point out here — 136 million can be done. About two or three months ago, I stood here defending the pensioner's regression. At that time, it was said that 21 million would tear down public finances and bury the country. 21 million for regress; 136 million, huge, it is. The president of the government says that 21 million are collapsing public finances. Today there will be 140 million. Then how can we believe what is true and what is not? I appeal, my fellow Members and colleagues, to add the 21 million to this, and to save the pensioner's regression this year, as should be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u10	Say good-bye again! I will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Today we are adopting an intervention law that will allow financial recovery to cover the deficit of hospitals in previous years and ensure payment stability for pre-financing. As misleading statements emerge in political and media discourse, it must first be clarified that the deficits of hospitals are not the result of the government's policy, but have been created years before our mandate. It is true, however, that this government is the first to address the problem in a responsible manner, in accordance with the principles of good governance, to which it is also committed as the founder of public health institutions. First of all, we need to be aware of the reasons for the poor health of hospitals. This is due to many measures in the past, when governments have tried to solve their financial problems at the expense of patients. Thus, a number of measures have been taken to ensure the balance of operations of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. On several occasions, prices of health services have been linearly reduced, resulting in an average loss of € 166 million by operators over the period 2009-2014. This has directly affected the right to timely treatment of patients. And today he's trying to prove himself wrong, as if the issue of waiting times is something that this government alone is responsible for. It is not guilty, but it is responsible; therefore the situation is being rectified. The Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance also did not recognise all costs incurred because of the limited resources available at the prices of health services. In spite of the release of certain wage austerity measures at national level, an important part of the cost of work remained uncovered, estimated at €171 million. The increase in VAT rates from 8 % to 8,5 % was not taken into account by the ZZS in the payment of services, which is estimated at around EUR 13 million. All these measures and many others have reduced the income of public health institutions, while nothing has been done to improve the situation, which hospitals have felt in particular. At the same time, no government has had the ear to settle the area in the long run, or in the past, it has run out of courage to do so. Losses in public health institutions have been recorded by all governments ahead of us, as is evident from reports of public health institutions published annually on the sides of the Ministry of Health. There is a lot of evidence that this financial recovery will only cover losses after long years of management in public health care institutions to protect the interests of already such poor hospital management. But the law also provides for additional measures. In order not to create new deficits in hospitals in the future, the law provides for the establishment of a recovery committee and rehabilitation boards. The objective is to optimise the management and operation of individual public hospitals, which show over-expenditure over income from previous years. They will work on the basis of baselines and guidance from the recovery committee, which will guide and supervise the implementation of the rehabilitation. And maybe it's someone's fault that, for the first time, it doesn't give money to health losses just like that, but at the same time, at the same time, it wants to ensure the purposeful use of these funds and, above all, control over this rehabilitation. We are therefore facing the consequences of the long-standing mismanagement of public health institutions, which no one has dealt with before us. Today, it is not even on the table that the financial situation should be rectified, but we have virtually no choice. Without additional budgetary resources for the immediate financial recovery of public health institutions, the smooth implementation of the public health service will be compromised. The crisis has affected public health institutions to the extent that public service delivery can be compromised. We must by no means allow the mistakes of past years to be felt by patients. Without intervention measures, the liquidity situation of public hospitals would deteriorate further, which could jeopardise the necessary supply of medicines and medical devices. The poor liquidity situation and the high level of unpaid outstanding liabilities of public hospitals can also lead to an increase in the number of executions. This would also result in the inability to pay salaries to public servants and the possible restriction of the provision of health services by operators, which could also lead to an extension of waiting periods. For all the reasons listed above, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party; we will also expect such measures to open the window of opportunity to provide a different practice of managing and operating hospitals in the future; this is transparent, socially responsible and, in particular, patient-specific; and not private interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you very much. If the government acted transparently and socially responsible, such a law would not be before us today. It is the rehabilitation of those and those who have not done anything in three years or have also created losses in Slovenian hospitals under the watchful eye of the Ministry of Health. So the bad governance that my colleague spoke about and their responsibility is on the shoulders of the largest coalition party and ministry. And if we were to save bad governance, then we'd fix it with other laws, in a different way. Even by calling for responsibility and ensuring that those who have created these losses in hospitals are no longer in leading positions in hospitals. Sanitation of those and those who have created the losses, this is the intervention law. 136 million is earmarked under the urgent procedure, since the adoption or non-admission of this law could have irreparable consequences. This is just the money that will be put into hospitals that have created losses, while the Ministry has not prepared a full measure to call on those responsible in hospitals to account for the losses incurred and to prepare measures for the future, so that these losses will no longer be incurred. This measure, as has already been said, will not put any patients in line first, will not shorten any waiting period, nor will any director, but at least the ministry, which allowed an increase in the expenditure gap in 2016. At the end of 2016, there was a 300 % higher difference in expenditure over revenue than in 2015. It is empty to say that this was due to business in 2009-2014. I would suggest you look at the statistics, the statistics, how the loss grew. The responsibility lies with this Ministry and with this government, which allowed for such a high increase in losses in 2014-2017. The losses also occurred through progress, i.e. through the signing of the Fides Treaty, by abolishing austerity measures in 2015, 2016 and 2017, which meant, in two years, 88 million only to eliminate these measures; rather, a reduction in the price of services. Service prices are at 1. 1. 2017 decreased by 2,16 %. To say that the 2009 losses are so high is empty talk. The next issue, in Article 4, is to cover expenditure on revenue from past years on public service; that is to say, that only these public service surpluses will be recovered, and that is another matter that we can seriously doubt. On the Health Committee in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we requested or asked that the European Commission first plead with regard to unlawful state aid, which was rejected. On the day following that, the Ministry of Health asked the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia to give an opinion on whether public health establishments have a diversified market and public activity. “ You Will Not Believe, ” 1 / 15 9. Mr Mezek responds after the interview that the Ministry gave instructions 15. 12. 2010 — Guidance on the delimitation of public service activities and market activity. However, the Ministry did not provide the criteria or judgments under which this was to be done. These judgments will be prepared, I will just read from this letter, “judge the division of expenditure and do not mediate the Ministry of Public Health, so a working group was appointed at the association in 2016, preparing the up-to-date courts for the sharing of revenue and for the sharing of public expenditure by activity. Therefore, public health establishments do not have a division into public and market activities. I want to know how you can only cover your public service losses through this intervention law. It is irresponsible of the government to take such an intervention law, which is proof, here is this letter from Mr Mezg that it was judged or not. We therefore expect an answer from the Slovenian Democratic Party, where and in which public institutions, how the ministry will share these 136 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with a team, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting to all! The proposal for an intervention measure law to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions provides a legal basis for a single transfer to hospitals of 80% of cumulative losses at the end of last year, amounting to EUR 136 million. In particular, this should allow for the smooth implementation of the public health service, as it could happen that, due to the inefficiencies of hospitals, suppliers would stop the supply of medicines and medical materials. It is a fact that the State, as the founder, is obliged to ensure payment of obligations which public health institutions do not have to take care of on their own. However, the question arises whether it is a long-term and effective measure. The agreement is clear, it is an action that will have a very short effect if systemic measures are not taken to ensure that more money flows into health-care and better functioning of public administrations; they will also have to take greater responsibility for the poor operation of institutions. It is true that it is not only poor management of institutions that are responsible for negative business; the underlying reasons for this are that many years of health care has been financially fed and health services have been underpaid, which has not been affected by the management of institutions. They also could not have affected the rise in labour costs, the payment of pay-as-you-go imbalances and the fact that the prices of medicines, particularly biological ones, are strongly too high. The rehabilitation administrations introduced by the bill will not be able to affect the prices of services, nor will they affect agreements when collective agreements change in the public sector, so we are afraid that these administrations will only be made to pay and staff in order to avoid the accidental dismissal of nurses and support staff. The bill also introduces the recovery committee as a key control for the duration of the intervention law. Let me repeat that we do not claim that all administrations are doing well; but the loss is often not solely due to their guilt. The analysis of the causes of the deficits of public health institutions presented by the Ministry at the end of July also shows that the negative operation of hospitals was caused by ensuring the balance of business with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, as there was a linear reduction in the prices of health services. Part of the responsibility for losses that increase from year to year is also vested in holy establishments, as they did not act on the occurrence of losses, even though they have a legal basis for this. As I have already mentioned, this law is primarily about intervention, but it will not have a long-term effect unless we adopt systemic measures. One such is the new system law for health care and health insurance, which is expected to bring difficult new resources to be paid into the health treasury, is to redefine the rights of insured persons. Although the Minister has already announced it for one of the next meetings of the National Assembly; however, we hope that then we will have enough time to take a close look at the proposal, and that we will not be put again before the fact that in the Desus Group we are critical of the bill, we will certainly be accused of breaking the coalition again. Let me conclude by pointing out my majority support for the bill, because we certainly do not want to prevent hospitals from digging up at least a little from the debts they have incurred; something for their own fault, but mostly because of the poor system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Today, after an emergency procedure, we are adopting an intervention law to remedy the losses of hospitals and, in particular, to provide care to patients. In the introduction of the law, we read, quote: “The financial situation of public hospitals is worrisome, as savings measures have been taken in the past endanger the implementation of public health services at secondary and tertiary levels. On day 31. 12. In the balance sheet of 15 public hospitals, 2016 shows a surplus of EUR 170.34 million over revenue. The remaining 11 hospitals, however, show surplus income over expenditure totalling €16.4 million. In one of the public hospitals in 2016, the over-expenditure over past years’ income exceeded the value of the hospital’s assets.” It's really worrying. Worried so much more about the past stuffing of our heads into the sand and the perversion of literally endangering the lives of our patients. However, mismanagement must not be an excuse, patients cannot be and must not be held accountable for the mistakes of others. It's to be saved. Suppliers should be paid and provided with uninterrupted supplies of medicines and other medical devices. But that's why we can't keep our eyes closed. I have never been and will never be silent, because running public institutions is also a key problem. Leaderships that are not responsible for any error, for no minus, for corrupt practices, for catastrophic relations in the collective, which also make us mortal victims, have nothing to look for in public institutions. Such leaders must be suspended and irresponsible. But the practice so far shows exactly the opposite. With us, such people find their place under the sun again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Here, we need intervention law here. We need immediate intervention in the area of governance and management of public institutions. I am not saying that the law of which the word runs is unnecessary, quite the opposite; yet how do we need it, but the rules of the game must be clear. This is where I see the necessary next step. If we do not do so, all subsequent governments will be able to adopt intervention laws each year to cover losses, but this must be done. Today, the Social Democrats repeat that we are missing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. A fair price for services should be determined as it is estimated to be 5-7 % too low. But not only will we play leadership, but the country also has its signature under this minus. By lowering prices, some public health establishments have been pushed to the brink of collapse. Hospitals at the State Treasury are borrowing liquidity loans that enable them to pay monthly wages and regress to pay debts to suppliers. One of the hospitals failed to pay the salaries of employees on time in 2017 due to the execution of the executions and consequently the closure of the account, and one of the suppliers fully stopped the supply of the medicines due to unpaid invoices. That's not right! Employees must be paid for their work and suppliers paid for their services. However, we hear a lot about illegal state aid. Minus also helped to create a founder with a low cost of services. The analysis shows that several linear reductions in health services prices have resulted in a loss of EUR 166 million. Next. The Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance also did not recognise all the costs incurred, such as the release of certain wage savings measures, the one-off payment of the third quarter of the pay gap and the release of advances and the increase in the value of wage classes of public servants, which amounted to EUR 171 million. Come in. The increase in the VAT rate for medicinal products and medical devices was not taken into account and could still be listed. When we look at the numbers and when we know that the negatives always cover the founder, it is difficult to bear the argument of unlawful state aid. This could be referred to as the founding obligation. In order not to be too long, the law provides a framework for the recovery of losses and for the establishment of a new model that will prevent further leakage of public funds if this is not justified and justified. I'm not going to take all the solutions because we've heard that before. I will only allow myself one more comment. If there is room for rewards for good work, which is right, it is also right to define responsibility for poor work. The law has our majority support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u18	Dear President and honourable Members of Parliament, welcome! In the past week, we discussed one very similar content, and we talked a lot about health care in this national assembly. On Wednesday we discussed the Ministry of Health's interpretation for almost 16 hours, and the day before, we also discussed intervention measures on the Health Committee to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. The coalition, which is interesting at the same time, was once again not united in support of the Minister, and quite a few observations were made at the work of the Minister. Several Members said publicly that their voice against interpretation was not a voice in support of the Minister, but a vote for Prime Minister Cerar. Elections are close, and the coalition cannot afford any more unanimity. And as we have already stressed in our position on interpretation, the purpose of New Slovenia is not to search for culprits, by no means. It is not a search for culprits, but for the situation in Slovenian health care it is necessary to seek solutions. In doing so, I would like to point out that it is not only the Minister who is responsible for the situation. However, the Minister is most responsible for the lack of necessary changes over the last three years, which would mean a better and financially more sustainable health system. Under the proposed Law on Intervention Measures to Ensure the Financial Stability of Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, is expected to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions and the law therefore provides for EUR 136.4 million, covering approximately 80% of the losses incurred by public health institutions on the day of 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As indicated in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the bill, at the end of 2016, 15 public hospitals in the balance sheet showed an excess of EUR 170.34 million in revenue. From 2009 to the end of last year, the loss increased by EUR 38.3 million. Public health institutions have difficulties with suppliers due to unpaid obligations. Some hospitals also have difficulties in paying salaries to employees. The bridging loan can be borrowed from the public health institution for a short period of time from the State Treasury, but this is only a short-term solution to the situation. And that's what's happening to us, and that's what's happening to us. The law proposed by the Ministry entails, among other things, a write-off of the claims of the State or the Ministry of Health for unpaid depreciation amounts from previous years, as recommended by the Court of Auditors. The law also provides for the establishment of a recovery committee to act as a consultative body of the Ministry of Health. Hospitals wishing to adopt single funds must draw up a recovery plan, together with action plans. The Sanitation Administration is supposed to be the head of the public health service, just like that. This leadership, which I stress, has created at the same time a business with a loss. The intervention law foresees €138.4 million in aid, which is more than the entire budget of the Ministry of Health. The budget of the Ministry of Health is EUR 94.9 million. And how do we give money? Once again, we are giving EUR 130 million money without making any reforms, structural reforms, any measures. In fact, we are throwing money to the same people, the staff under which the hole was also made. Madam Minister, these are ineffective painkillers. And in a few years, this hole, this deficit, it's going to come back. The money we're throwing, it's really unnecessary to put it there if we don't make some reforms. Ms Vraničar Erman, Minister of Finance, stressed on the Committee that the financial framework for the intervention law had been prepared taking into account and respecting the public financial objectives for 2017. In view of the extent of the resources to be provided, the Government has also adopted a decision to suspend the implementation of the budgets, together with the adoption of the proposal for a law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in Novi Slovenija we will not oppose this; we will abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u19	We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 9a and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. As usual, we always say something general about the law first, so I will start a little more generally, and then I believe that my colleagues will say more. Colleagues, I'm going to start with an interview with the Minister for Youth. She said: “If we want to make all changes for the good of people in our health care, then it will take a few more years.” You know what I said at the beginning - at least two terms. I would like to comment on this – God forbid. Really. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been alerting all these three years to all the irregularities, including the negative functioning of public health institutions. This was first pointed out in the interpolation, at the extraordinary meeting of the parent working body in 2016, at the extraordinary meeting of the parent working body 2017 and again at the last interpolation. But when we warned you about that, we listened to your eyewitnesses. I will read what my colleague Jana said that “we think that through these extraordinary meetings we will speed up and heal the system; if we think so, we are wrong. In fact, we will achieve the opposite effect, and we will further deepen our distrust of the health system; thinking that you are doing well for your political goal, and that is only your goal and that is your main agenda.” So we were just doing some propaganda with it. But the fact is, we've been alerted to that. When I listened to the point of view earlier, it was interesting to hear that the former governments were to blame for the negative situation and the health situation. I also listened to what should be done. Yeah, who's in charge, coalition?Oh, my God! You! You have that option. Some of you blamed even us in the Slovenian Democratic Party. As I said before, we have warned of these irregularities, but you said that we are pursuing populism, which is suddenly boom – and the intervention law in the National Assembly. I must say that we are used to various things with this minister, that health reform is adopted by emergency procedure, but I am sure that today this package of three laws will be adopted not by intervention law, not by emergency procedure; but politically. Why political? If we recall the views or discussions of you, Members, in the Minister's interpretation, you will agree – your goal is to have this coalition in place by the end of the term at all costs. And you care a little about our citizens. The fact is that this law is contrary to legislation and is also contrary to European Union law. Why am I saying it's against the law? We're adopting an intervention law, 136 million, we don't know where we're going to get them; okay, we're going to get them with a rebalancing and so on. If I remember how we did this in the congregation. The roof at the school was deserted. And we should not have gone straight to the rescue, but we had to first change the budget, provide the funds, the invitation to tender, blah blah blah blah; and only then, when there was more damage, could we have gone to the rehabilitation of this roof. And we're just doing the intervention law, and the funds are already going to be out there. If we were to propose an intervention law in the Slovenian Democratic Party without providing funds in the budget, we know what your debate would be like. Good. Finance Minister Matthew Vraničar Erman says there will be a need for a rebalancing, but it will not jeopardize public finances. Of course not, but it will likely endanger a number of other areas within the budget. That's definitely it. That this law is also contrary to European Union law, you have already heard that, and I think that it is already an application to the European Commission that it is illegal money aid; you should close your eyes as much as you want. With these 36 million you will cover losses, nothing to me, nothing to you, caravans go on; instead of finding responsibility or finally preparing a law on the management and operation of public health institutions, which we also constantly remind you of. But you have decided on your system of work, which you think is best; and you will support it at all costs, only to remain until June 2018. Or no one is asked how 13 out of 26 hospitals were able to operate positively at the end of 2016. Were these 13 hospitals subject to a different law? Did these hospitals have services otherwise paid from the Health Insurance Office? Have not their staff, doctors and nurses made progress? I think we should ask ourselves that, too. After this marriage, you will reward those who have caused the loss. Now, once again, all those who have been politically already employed in these public health institutions will be rewarded; remember UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor, Brežice, Ormož; as they follow the order of the hospital and the loss. Now your capable political personnel are going to fix these hospitals. Who trusts them in here? Who trusts them if they haven't done anything and turned out? As I said before, instead of adopting a system law, you throw 136 million just so that hospitals can pay bills to suppliers who already live well; and we know how these suppliers are. Once again, your aim of this intervention law is definitely to pay off suppliers and to politically recruit all the other personnel you still have in stock until the end of this mandate; instead of pursuing systematic health regulation to adopt any more necessary laws; in some proper order. Instead of doing everything for the benefit of the patients, you work for the benefit of the suppliers and for your own benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u21	Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. With regard to this law, we are disturbed by the composition of the recovery committee in Levica. No one who performs any public function will be able to sit in this body, which somehow denies the principle of democratic responsibility. That's why I'm repeating the question from the committee. Who do you intend to appoint to the recovery committee? In view of the situation in Slovenian health care, I hope that there is no Secretary or Mr Pirnat, and I have already said this on a committee which, with the money of insurance companies and the American Chamber of Commerce, write prescriptions for the privatisation of the Slovenian public health system. Who, Madam Minister, will you be recruiting for this committee? We are also further interested in what this rehabilitation means for the frame in hospitals. The recovery board cannot affect the prices of health services, nor can it affect collective agreements. He can only spar with material and forgiveness. That is why I am particularly interested in whether this recovery board will have the power to forgive for business reasons. And I'm particularly worried about what happens to nurses, nurses and similar technical support staff. We know that it is clear to everyone that these administrations will not go into the forgiveness of doctors; but we know that in such situations, usually the first to strike are those who are the weakest and the worst protected — in short, workers in the worst positions. Most of all, because I think it's the easiest-to-do scenario, but I'm afraid of outsourcing. They are already cleaners, caregivers on bad wages, but if the management decides and gives notice, and for these services, services, as you wish, turn to some cleaning service, which is not subject to any collective contract and uses legally, even more unlawfully than used caregivers, cleaners; this can mean a lower price in the balance sheet of a public institution below the line and thus a lower loss. Where is the guarantee in the legislation that recovery would not become an excuse for even more outsourcing? How will you ensure that? But I'm worried about a slightly longer-term thing, and I'm worried about concessions. Public institutions also under the new Health Act are not providers of health services but only organisers. I am afraid that it would happen, not necessarily under this government, in order to cut and cut public health institutions and grant these activities on behalf of the rehabilitation of public hospitals. In the short term, this can be seen as a solution; in the long term, this is certainly more expensive, less effective, reducing the accessibility of the public health system. We know that the political forces in this country, which have such privatisation, certainly want the internal privatisation of the public health system. Of course, we will be able to save the public health system, strengthen it, improve it by providing it with new sources of funding, because Slovenian health is a social sub-system that is subsidised. I used to refer to comparisons with Austria. I can name them again and again in this place. Compared to the Austrians, we give relatively more money to the army, and in the field of health we give much less money than our northern neighbour gives to Austria. And we are already putting pressure on the entire mandate in the United Left to abolish supplementary health insurance and replace it with a solidarity public tax, because in this way €60 million, which are now completely unjustifiably intercepted by commercial health insurance companies, directly with premiums from insurers and then ends up in the profits of insurance companies, at their inflatable operating costs. This money can go directly to the Slovenian public health system through the Institute of Health Insurance and, instead of profit and luxury, some individuals who roll through insurance serve the health of all citizens and citizens. This is only one of the measures that we have been waiting for in Levica for three years in this mandate. Cutting the poultry to unjustified concessions is certainly another measure. We know that concessions consume the public health system because it is an ineffective regulation. I do not say, as I am sometimes told, that concessionaires are greedy or anything like that, I also know a doctor who left the public system because he could no longer provide the level and quality of services that he would like, but the concession system is expensive and ineffective. To cut through the negative spiral of overpayments and corruption risks in public procurement, we need to start a public non-profit company that actively seeks the lowest prices of materials and medical devices. To cut out these rent brokers who don't do anything but charge the margin so they don't do anything. However, we are all paying this through budgetary resources, but also directly by citizens and citizens with poor health, because valuable resources are being drained through these times. And I would like to make another point here regarding the opposition criticism of this law. Going to sue your public hospitals in front of the European Commission for illegal state aid, that's treason, that's quizzing. And that's exactly what the Medical Chamber is doing right now. And who's already doing it right over there?Oh, my God! I think that you are such servants of Brussels Europe, of Germany's Europe, of Brussels bureaucracy, if you want, we cannot afford to be. Especially when it comes to our public health system, our hospitals. I've told you before in my position that we don't have any others. We have these, we need to prepare them, not that the remediation of the gaps that have occurred threatens and sues for unlawful State aid to the European Commission. Health care is not an economic sector, health care is not a cash machine. Human health is not used or should not be used, that is a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u23	Because it's still an interest in the debate, I'm asking you to apply. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u24	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague, colleague! In the developed world, intervention laws are passed when there is a natural disaster, a natural disaster. In Slovenia, however, intervention laws are usually adopted for the rehabilitation of the banking system at the expense of taxpayers. We now have an intervention law on the table for the rehabilitation of hospitals of EUR 136 million. Dear Minister, at your hearing, when you presented your programme, how you would act as Minister, it was a priority to ensure the successful management and management of hospitals. You've probably fallen all over the line here, because hospitals have never been in such a loss before. Ladies and gentlemen, I am interested in this loss of €136 million, for which individual hospitals will go money and at what level will be individual hospitals. At least I don't think you've said that by now. But I really don't see why you, in the law itself, are saying that there's going to be a need to bring in a rescue team. Is this just a matter of maneuvering the Modern Centre Party and you so that a few months before the elections you will continue to cadre a certain frame that you have. Because in most hospitals, it seems to me that the management of these hospitals has made it clear where the reasons for the negative business in individual hospitals are. At least as I was able to understand from these interviews and reasons, health services are too low for the state to raise them; on the other hand, the losses are also due to the release of public sector wages. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask if the management of the existing hospitals will tell you where the reasons for the poor business are, why you must at least provide for some rescue teams in the law. And I'd like to know, Your Honor, where, according to your conduct, are the reasons for the negative operations of these hospitals. Dear Minister, since most of your business career worked in the financial sector, I was very surprised at your statement in the adoption of this law that it is only a matter of resolving the liquidity crisis. We all know that if liquidity is a spasm, there are likely problems of a unique nature; and this liquidity spasm is eventually eliminated. In view of your statement that this is a liquidity spasm, can we expect these hospitals to put this money back in the budget? And here are the results of the business for 2016. What will happen in 2017? Have you already taken any measures to reduce these losses in 2017? Do we, I don't know, get the intervention law back from your side in 2018? Then maybe 250 million. I'm sure these losses are only increasing. Dear Minister, I am convinced that the reasons are substantially different from those mentioned by you or your team; and we have also heard in the position of the Modern Centre Party that the losses are a consequence of the situation from the past. I agree that this area in Slovenia is probably never managed optimally. Above all, it is also due to the fact that, in most of those who covered this system, Slovenian public were very pleased to talk about how successful we have in Slovenia and that we have free health care. Dear Minister, we don't have free health care. We pay a high price in Slovenia for health care. However, we pay a high price primarily for what we get back. More than €2 billion receives health bills every year from employers and employees. Employees with an average salary pay more than EUR 2 000 per year for health insurance. And I am sure that fundamental changes are needed here; and I am also sure that there are untapped potentials and spaces in certain hospitals. Today, we only have specialist examinations between 7:00 and 3:00 p.m. What about this afternoon? These ambulances are all alone. I am sure that one part of this market activity in particular should be done by hospitals. My personal opinion is that they have a very effective health system in Austria. In Austria it is well seen that the private and public health system can operate hand in hand, but effective system changes need to be made here. I'm sure, Your Honor, that we should do more in your place. During today's debate, however, I look forward to the answers to the questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u25	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I protest the presentation of the report of the committee meeting. This is a matter of full parliamentary work and a report to the Slovenian public on what was happening on the Committee. In not a single word, the President-in-Office of Zorman presented the opposition's debate and it was active, constructive, and we have raised some questions. All honour goes to experts who have correctly summarized the debate on the Committee and recorded it in the report; but this report, which is in print, is unknown to the public. He has access to it, but people don't read it. They are watching this meeting and have not been able to hear that the opposition's debate is an opposition to the consideration of the bill. In view of the many comments made by the professional and interested public which were not taken into account, we have simply called on the opposition to consider the meaning of the hearing. The opposition MEPs criticised the Ministry's and the Minister's work and pointed out that there are many members of the amendment and that the government should come with a system law; not with amendments and additions, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service and so on. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, at least we have to be right about ourselves. Of course, we have different views on different social and political issues, but we need to be correct when reporting what someone has said. So much for an introduction. I also estimate that the title of this law is already wrong. It's some kind of deception to the public again. You will not be able to inform me if you say that this is an intervention measure law to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. We will only see if this works to ensure some financial stability. Financial stability is understood in the future. It would be correct to say that this is a law on intervention measures to cover the losses of public health institutions on 31 January. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We'd all understand that. Now a lot of people say, "Yeah, that's right, public health institutions need to be financially stable. We'll see about that. But it's certainly not true, and it's no way to paint people to make this 136 million now, maybe less money for patients. That's not true. That's not true. By the way, some of that money will come back to the country. Why? Since loans received from public health establishments from the State’s single treasury account will also be covered. Surely the Ministry of Health has information in this place, and how many of these loans there are, this must be publicly known; and I would ask the Ministry to answer this question as well. I also have problems with Article 4 when the discussion on the balance sheet is held on 31 December 2016. I'm not a accounting specialist, but I understand the balance sheet as a balance sheet for a business entity. We are probably referring to the balance of business results, where you can see the excess of income expenditure or the domestically expressed loss that we are covering by this intervention law. But that's a matter of words now, but I'm sure those terms aren't negligible. But it's normal for us to deal with the intervention law. Why do you have to intervene? Because there are no system laws because there are no systemic solutions. I have put a lot of hope in this coalition, which, among other things, has written in the coalition agreement that health will be its priority; because healthcare has indeed had problems for several years now, we can say all the time of the independent state; because our health model is still a model that we have simply copied or continued from the previous social policy system. We haven't done anything about the medical system. I'm not saying everything's bad in our health care. At least I know a few health systems in other countries. They are not as good as in Slovenia. But the fact is, we have great potential, so we have to make the best of it. We have to make optimal use of every resource, every individual, not just a country, every individual, to make the best possible health system, because health is our greatest value. To get our taxpayers who will have to cover this health hole, we will all cover this health hole to get some shows, let me make comparisons. If you look at the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017, you can see that the Ministry of Health has a good figure of 94 million. I'm not going to argue now whether it's big or small; it's probably too small. However, if I set the total loss of public health institutions in 2016, this sum is around 170 million, which means 180% of the budget of the Ministry of Health for this year. And here are these relationships that are of great concern to me and us in New Slovenia. And if I put these intervention measures, which weigh 136 million, back in the ratio of the budget of the Ministry of Health, that's 144%. This law will take out 144% of the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2017. They're frantic numbers. I don't understand why the amortization is written off here either. Depreciation is of course a cost and I call it a good cost. Why? Since we are updating depreciation, business operators are updating equipment, investing; this will be less now if I understand correctly. I am disappointed that even in the National Assembly we simply cannot agree once and for all on the precise definition of public health from now on. The public health of each country defines the financing of the health system, i.e. the way money is collected, and the implementation of health activities from that money. These two must be closely connected. I simply do not understand why the private sector should not be part of the public health system. Thank God we have enthusiasts not to say fools who invest all their life savings that are credited and invested in walls and equipment, for human health. A lot of people in this room have a headache – what happens now, this doctor is going to be rich. And we're supposed to have problems with rich people in this country. But he has knowledge. And if the state bureaucrat is suffocating him so that he can't develop his potentials, intellectuals and others, even financial ones, then what will it be? He'll pack his bags and he'll go out. We have a real exodus of doctors and other specialists from this area that just go out. Not just because or not because of the higher salary at all; not because of relationships, because there is a problem here. Also with human relations within public health institutions are problems; we listen to doctors, nurses and so on. And I don't know why concessions are such a problem. Someone from the Modern Centre Party once said and quoted Prof. Igor Gregorič as saying that concessions should be abolished. Of course, because you're being hampered by the development of health care. It is necessary to release a private initiative, not just in the health field, in all areas, including education and so on. Until this majority in this Chamber or in some of the next composition of the National Assembly, the politicians will understand; by that time, the best people of this country will be leaving the country. Until then, there will always be too little money for health care, for education and for other very important social sub-systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u27	Procedurally, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to provide only one explanation and a proposal below. My colleague Horvat accused me of presenting the report of the Health Committee and not acting as a member of the Modern Centre Party, but as Vice-President of the Committee, and I reported only on what had happened on the Committee that I had missed the chapter where the opposition made comments in the debate. Well, that's true, but that wasn't intentional. You know that the presentation of the report is limited to 5 minutes and it has already reminded me that I am running out of time, so I had to shorten the text and release certain content. This was not intended to in any way create a different impression of what was going on at the committee meeting. If time were longer than five minutes, then a comprehensive report could also be read in full. You know, because you're the chairman of a committee when you report to the National Assembly, you never read everything because it doesn't work in five minutes. But if that time is extended, it's possible. There wasn't any intention of making some impression that wasn't there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u29	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Today we are talking about an intervention law that weighs 136 million. Certainly, the losses in hospitals have accumulated for several years, and I believe that such an intervention law should be adopted immediately at the time of the start of the mandate and not just now, since this would prevent public health institutions from paying additional interest on unpaid claims, as there is also a large deficit. If we didn't have this marriage on the table today, we would be at risk for patients' lives because we wouldn't get enough care in hospitals, so I think it's right that we're talking about such a marriage today. However, it is also right to set clear criteria, under what conditions, and then what management will have to do for this place. Although I have to deny the matter from the standpoint, it has been said that this government alone has the means to remedy losses. It is true that the government had already allocated funds for the first time in 2009 by a decision of the Government to remedy losses, at a level of only over 7 million; but it should be known that the criteria were not sufficiently clear at the time and that these hospitals, which have received funds to cover losses, are also now appearing on this list of hospitals that show losses. Losses of hospitals, I must say, are really worrying. Just UKC Ljubljana – 99 million, UKC Maribor – 6 million, Celje – 5 million, Izola – just over 15 million, Jesenice – 3 million, Ptuj – 7 million 600. These are such amounts that it really freezes you. Measures are needed and, as I said, clearly defined criteria for what management must do when they receive these funds. This law must be clear and loud in this place. It is true that these crises have not only been caused by these leaders. I have already said in my delegation's position that the analysis shows that it was a linear reduction in the cost of health services, resulting in a loss of € 166 million. The Health Insurance Office did not pay all the costs incurred by the austerity measures; then the one-off payment of the third quarter of the pay gap, the release of the advances, the increase in the value of the pay grade, which meant a new 171 million euro loss. It is even more painful that the increase in VAT rates for medicines and medical devices has not been taken into account, and this is also worth €13 million. The Health Insurance Office did not pay services that exceeded the contractual framework, which amounted to EUR 64 million. If that were not the case, patients would wait even longer in waiting lines, which is not right again. Unpaid contributions for compulsory health insurance, which you will not believe on day 30, shall also appear. 6. 2017 amounts to EUR 123 million, which also affects the available funds of the Institute for Health Insurance. These data are truly disturbing. This one-off intervention law will cover only 80 % of the expenditure shown above the revenue on 31 January to the public health service. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This means that we will cover part of this surplus of expenditure. It is true that there has also been a lot of talk by predecessors that it is not clear whether these losses are also marketed activity, but in institutions it represents only 3% of their activities, so I do not think that this issue is simply sustainable. I must say that this law provides quite a few frameworks. It is true that I myself have had doubts about the recovery committee, which will be called by the Minister, but someone has to check the health authorities that will be appointed in the public health institutions which will receive these funds. Otherwise, I still have — and I will most likely remain — the question of the appointment of rehabilitation administrations. It's actually about these people who already run public institutions. In my opinion, they are not doing this work now, because the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states what happens every year if the public health institution shows an excess of expenditure on revenue. The recovery plans must be drawn up. I don't know if these recovery plans were done or not, or were submitted; and then what was out of these recovery plans. I also asked this question on the committee, although I did not get the answer, but at the end of the day it is also right for the management to have another opportunity to prove that they are not responsible for the losses that have occurred. In any case, the part of the losses that have occurred is elsewhere, but they also have a great weight on leadership, as some public health institutions are merely acting economically, seeking measures to reduce losses and looking for as little amounts as possible for the purchase of material. Here's a lot of things we're gonna have to think about. There was a speech on the issue of unlawful State aid. We must be aware that the founder is obliged to settle losses. It is true, however, that the founder must clearly state the limits to which he covers them and the penalties for improper conduct will then be imposed. I think this marriage is one step ahead. Not all losses will be covered; management will still have to act economically with the resources they have. However, it is crucial to correct this price of the service, which is now in the 2014 ranking, which means that it is estimated that 5-7 % of this price is too low and that the Health Insurance Office will also pay additional programmes. Only then will we be able to shorten waiting periods that are truly in an alarming state. It is true, however, that this law will not bring about a crucial step and that this law will not shorten waiting periods. But we care about the citizens, because we are going to adopt this law. A colleague laughed because at first she said that we didn’t care; but if she listened to our position, at least we would ensure patient care. Because when you're lying in hospitals and you just don't get the material, it's unacceptable. That is why we need to move forward. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u31	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. In my opinion, this is about first aid and not about ensuring the financial stability of public health institutions through this law. That's definitely it. From what I have said in my position, there is no law in the background of this intervention law on hospital management and operations, which the Minister has been talking about since the beginning at the hearing itself, that, as a colleague said, it will be her priority to improve hospital management. And if there is absolutely no measure in this intervention law to reduce the new losses in hospitals, this money side is thrown away. Not from the point of view of covering losses, but from the point of view you know the saying that a child should be taught to fish, not to put fish in his hands. [[…]] If you do not allow an external environment in the government of hospitals to prevent additional financial losses, then this money makes no sense. As the following year, other hospitals, new hospitals, or the same, will continue to be on the list, as said by a colleague who also received assistance in 2009. However, since we have no idea in the opposition, I will read to you some of the Directors' statements on the opinion of these intervention laws. The director of the General Hospital in Jesenice said that this intervention law does not solve the current problems of hospitals which, due to the under-financing of health services, will only this year create an additional loss of half the funds they are expected to receive by law. Kranj Hospital for Gynaecology and Obstetrics said: “The liquidity situation is still very difficult. The expected hospital rehabilitation law will allow for the payment of outstanding obligations over 90 days, but ongoing business will not be resolved if health services prices rise unchanged." From UKC Maribor, because this government is not guilty of anything, it was said that they were in red numbers last year primarily because of the irregular financing of the emergency centre. Last year, after two decades of business without liquidity problems, the General Hospital Celje found itself in a situation similar to that of other hospitals, and its director said: “This is due to a decrease in the prices of health services by 3.6% by the ZZS in 2016, an increase in labour costs and an unplanned increase in the costs of medicines and health materials.” So from these issues, from what the directors tell you; they talk about liquidity problems or losses due to the internal environment, if you read financial reports, hospitals face internal problems; and because of the external environment, this is the ministry that gives such laws, such instructions. Madam Secretary, this is not funny. You say you've signed with the unions the release of measures and this has caused, they say, an increase in wages. Isn't that true? Now you'll say you didn't raise your wages. When it was signed with the unions, it was said that there would be no financial consequences. So there won't be any financial consequences. You've released these measures, the doctors' salaries have risen, even the rewards, okay, the last time I told them that they deserved it, but you lied to the state, you lied to the government, to everyone, especially yourself, that this would not lead to financial consequences. Directors have to pay their salaries and all that, but they don't get any extra money for that. Lowering the prices of health services and so on. There are no measures to reduce this financial situation or this business. At the same time, the price of the material, I don't know how long we've been talking about it, Madam Minister is bragging about saving at the prices of the material, which is not true again, because all the directors are telling you that the prices of the material are rising. Those joint public contracts are not heard of by the spirit or the reduction of financial work. The following matter, in Article 5, second paragraph, you have put the audited accounts out and only talk about internal audit, according to internal audit. Why no more revised business reports? As it would be concluded that this letter, which Mr Mezek sent to the Ministry at the time of the interpretation, when we started talking about unlawful state aid or about the fact that public health institutions do not have a public and marketed activity, this went out because this would have been the case in these audited business reports. The Ministry gave instructions in 2010 concerning the delimitation of public service activities and market activity; however, it did not say so. The courts are being held this year. For 31. 12. You will not be able to tell 2016, Madam Minister, whether it was a matter of concealing losses from the public service or from market activity. If so, then please tell me what is wrong with this letter or why this letter began to circulate immediately after the meeting of the committee, when we began to warn the opposition that there is no distinction between public and commercial activity; and at the interpretation that no one in the Chamber wanted to hear or hear. Now I'm curious, because on the board you said that all the ladies were there for you and you, too, that there was a distinction that you could determine. At the same time, credit losses and loan payments will also be covered under the Single Treasury Account of the State and to commercial banks hired to finance liquid liquidity. Is this about covering these public service loans or on average? What exactly were these loans for, which segment? Otherwise it writes to finance liquid liquidity, but it can also come into the work of market activity if you want. My colleague Kordish said that we are in the opposition to the Quizlings because we are suing the European Union. I did not press charges against the European Union, I merely pointed out that there could be unlawful state aid and that we would like information about it, not a declaration, which would be very good. Because if we belong to or have the Bismarck Health System under the European Directive, then this rule of unlawful state aid applies to us. But if we had a solidarity health care such as Mr Kordish said that we should have a solidarity health based on solidarity, then the matter is different, in which case this would not be used. Today, however, the payment of health services from citizens' contributions, i.e. through insurance companies, remains. This also raises the question whether this view may also lead to unlawful State aid. Once again, the distinction between public and market, Madam Minister, why then such letters by Mr Mezg, that there is no such thing and that this will only be settled now. I would like to see the financial report of UKC Ljubljana, or of all hospitals which have a distinction between market and public activity. The next issue is the recovery committees. I'd like to know who's going to sit on these boards. Maybe someone from the Faculty of Economics who will charge about 6,000 euros for the proposals for rehabilitation plans, like the Novo Mesto General Hospital, where they prepared a recovery plan with the help of the Faculty of Economics that charged them with this. Now I wonder if there will be people on the boards who will be paid, how much fees will be paid for these people; and whether then hospitals will be counted when their recovery plans are done. The next issue is the recovery board. In the recovery board, the coalition has already told you, there are people sitting today who are part of the financial losses, that is, directors, professional directors, assistant health directors, maybe the latter at least. But you don't have, like, assistant directors for financial transactions. Put the ones in, and then you'll make a set. Then it's a set. This is also our amendment to suggest that you give the financials along with them so they can say - public is this, but this is marketable; we can hide here and we can't hide here. No, there's no need for financiers, that's one thing. Second, once again, or and how some of the Faculty of Economics will serve because they have so far. Are you going to relieve directors who don't answer you through the rehabilitation boards, Madam Minister? Since the recovery plan has already been rejected twice in UKC Ljubljana, I don't even know about the third because these worlds of the institution are not what they are moving. Once there are meetings, then the meeting is postponed, the agony of UKC Ljubljana continues to be 99 million losses; child heart surgery, agony continues. This is where the President of the Council of UKC Ljubljana sits, and nothing of all. Of course, the Minister is not competent, 6 members of the Board of the Institute are competent in UKC Ljubljana, including by the Government. Now I wonder how you can give 136 Madam Minister, whether you would give someone money, I don't know, a thousand euros; without telling you why he's going to give you how he's going to do it, so there's no further loss, so that the next day he won't be at your door for a thousand euros. [[…]] What is he going to do with these thousands of euros? What's he going to do to keep his new losses from happening? I don't think we'd do that with our money. But because you work with taxpayers' money, you give 136 million without recovery plans, without an accepted balance, without any basis. A colleague said that this is accepted abroad when natural disasters occur. I don't think I'm going to continue to think we've come to a natural disaster. As this, 136 million, Madam Minister, without a basis, they apply for a role, do not have audited business statements, only internal audit, and ultimately this internal auditor tells you if everything is okay. First it revises, then it tells you whether the numbers are okay or not. The same people. The same people who've been making losses so far. And you, the minister who caused the losses, will now be rehabilitating Slovenian hospitals. I almost told the banks because it's a very similar thing. I am asking you for answers – public, market activity, because some so yell that it is necessary to separate, which is marketed, that it is necessary to separate individuals and concessionaires; but in public health institutions this can be done. Do they have judgments as to whether the case was made before 2016; or is it really what it says in this letter? That's one thing. Another thing, who will be on the boards of rehabilitation and for what payment, what kind of fees are foreseen, is just interested in payment — yes or no? If so, then you will tell how high this is supposed to be; because if this goes from the country's budget, it must be known. At the same time, I am also interested in 136 million, which ministries will be harmed on this account. What area? Because somewhere we're gonna have to take the money. He'll have to be taken somewhere. And that's basically a thin signature of the coalition because we don't know the balance yet. And I'm surprised, once again, by the coalition, that you can discuss this and finally confirm this law. I really don't understand you in that sense. You criticize, you say exactly the same thing, you make sense that this is essentially a neat signature, that there is no recovery committee, that there is nothing to know; but at the same time you will only confirm that the coalition remains. I hope I'll never be in that kind of skin. But if I do, I find it hard to believe, I'd rather be quiet, because it's kind of a betrayal for me, under the adage. Betraying people, as you said yourself, €136 million will not shorten waiting times, will not bring any positive effects, only that some who have created losses will breathe and create new losses more easily. What about those who did business favorably?Oh, my God! How, though, could those who did business favorably? We in the country of Slovenia reward those who have done bad things that have created losses; those who have done good, we will probably take something else. But if next year those who are now a little above water are in a negative state, we don't care anymore. Thus, rewarding those who do wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u33	Replica, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you. It points out that health care is also an economic activity and that the rehabilitation of hospitals under state aid is not only a warning. It is a hidden and not too well hidden threat that a lawsuit from Slovenia will fall on the European Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u35	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Today we have an intervention law ahead of us, but at the same time we are discussing things that are quite difficult. It's about what's public, what's private. They often speak in the direction that public institutions are not responsible for this loss; they are quite schizophrenic; on the other hand, we are faced with rumours that public institutions are responsible for having a loss in public institutions today. That's saying something about the whole thing doesn't stick. The Minister herself at the interpretation said that for about a billion €700 million interventions to public health were cash registers. No business entity would have been able to withstand such pressure if its funds had been reduced for such a short period of time, but at the same time no new financial resources had been provided to enable this activity to continue operating within the meaning of the objectives of the public health system. I also support the proposed intervention law itself in the part where public health is allocated an additional EUR 136 million. It must be said, however, that this is only about covering the work of hospital losses or health institutions. You have also warned that this amount will by no means be sufficient, even though we add up to all that has been said — the depreciation, the costs that the budget will have to bear. Not to mention that the Health and Health Insurance Act is still somewhere in the clouds; and the question is whether we will ever see it, as well as the means to bring it into the health register. This amount will by no means be sufficient to improve the situation without other new resources, as well as systemic measures. I am also concerned about the open possibilities of political human resources cracking after the institutions provided by the law. The intervention law suspends part of the existing legislation governing the management and operation of public institutions, even though there is already an appropriate legislation to control the use of funds and introduce remedial measures. The current legislation already allows measures against those who waste public funds inadvertently, as well as against those who allow corruption, endanger security and access to treatment. However, we can see that these measures have not been implemented; we are again before we have legislation that is not applicable, but those who should apply it and require its application have not done so, but today require the suspension of the work of this legislation so that they can take certain things into their own hands and put in place extraordinary measures. The losses of public institutions, as most of us have found today, are the result of insufficient and inadequate financing of public institutions. We may wonder why there were no systemic measures to avoid having a situation where the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance pays private health care providers all the health services they perform and not to public institutions. We know who is responsible for regulation in this area. And precisely the missing systemic measures to ensure adequate funding for public institutions have led to losses and to unacceptable long waiting periods recorded by public institutions today. Clearly, performers try to help themselves if they see that there will be excessive losses; at the same time they must receive all patients, heal all, and lack sufficient resources, so it is clear that waiting periods will be extended. That makes perfect sense. To prepare measures to prevent this, they are responsible to the ministries, to the government; not to public institutions. As it is said, we do not support any potential non-transparent, inadvertent spending of public funds, for which there are all levers to prevent this. The fact is, therefore, that 136 million euros is not sufficient for the deep wound patch that the previous and this government has given to the public health system. It is a value system of individual governments, it is a matter of priorities; and obviously human health is not a priority of many governments that have run the ministry or this department at the time, and have also been the most responsible for what is happening in this area. These funds will not save the expected losses, and there is also a lack of money to eliminate the unacceptable long waiting periods. If we cared about patients, patients, then we'd take care of them first, and then the rest. The minister herself said that more than a billion euros were taken away from the public health system or the pension fund. Apart from corruption, which includes allowing a dual-living system, this is the same work of doctors in public and private health, where levers are back on the regulator’s side, the following contributed to the losses of public institutions: most of these things have already been mentioned. From 2010 to 2016, the public health service was not paid EUR 580 million of health services. You can imagine the kind of money this is; yet, it was required of institutions to do business positively. The way they did business, that's how we see it. The prices of health services were really too low, we all find that, but the minister still lowered the price by 1 in her term of office. 1. 2017, which will continue to bring losses to this system. Hospital benefits, which none of you have mentioned, have increased dramatically during this period. We need to find that ministers and governments have not done enough — I could say nothing — in the area of hospital compensation. In order to allow, but not to do so, in the event of excessive hospital absences of employers with higher health contributions, which the current legislation allows, and by paying for the rehabilitation of employees, forcing those employers who cause these injuries or the disease of people to be treated more humanly. We still do not have a regulated list of occupational diseases, and this has been pointed out for many years. The increased expenditure on hospital benefits certainly reflects the insufficient concern of employers for safety and health at work. We know that this is a matter of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as well as of the Ministry of Health, where there are all possible levers in legislation to be done in this area. Following the release of austerity measures in the area of wages, we have heard that today, there are still €171 million left to the public institutions. So another government intervention into a health treasury that was without an additional financial resource. We have already heard about the increase in VAT on medicines and medical and technical devices, which has caused the health treasury to lose EUR 13 million. However, we have not yet heard about the reduction in standards for doctors, which resulted in a 20% increase in costs for public institutions. For the same work, doctors today receive significantly higher wages, and this also means that new doctors should be hired to do the work done earlier by the same doctors when, of course, they do not want to do any extra work. This was also a measure without sufficient financial coverage at the time of this government, which is an additional principle of the operation of public institutions. The new agencies, which we are extremely proud of, have also brought in or caused additional employment costs, which have also not been provided with additional financial resources. Not to mention the wage agreements with Fides and the negotiations with the government's trade unions and these health ministers, who are still running and will bring additional costs to public institutions, for which there will also be no additional financial resources. What additional burden does this mean for public health institutions, which will have an impact on further future losses. However, if such an intervention could still be justified in the event of an increase in the minimum wage, it is entirely irresponsible of the minister and the government to use the shovel to throw additional funds for those wages that are already so high — paid by doctors in the country. Again without providing additional financial resources. The cumulative loss of public institutions at the end of 2016 amounts to €170 million, which means that we take into account everything I have stated that public institutions have done relatively well under all these circumstances. Of course, it should be borne in mind that the burden has been passed on to the coming period, since waiting periods have been extended during this period. Even the euro under this law will unfortunately not be the end of the long-term waiting period. Under the intervention law, the Minister will be able to resolve the current public administrations, as well as political staffing, which I am deeply concerned about. If appropriate systemic measures to ensure the stable financing of public institutions are not soon to take place, public institutions will begin to tighten up the provision of services to patients where this will result in additional business losses or where the positions of public authorities will be compromised. Without payment for the services provided, it is not possible to achieve positive business results, it is necessary to know. Thus, public institutions, as private health care providers do, could also start closing their doors to patients for services not paid by the Health Insurance Office. And that must be what we're afraid of! It's about patients again, what's going to happen to them, which is why we have a public health system. That is why intervention law may be harmful to accessible, quality and safe medical treatment of patients without timely appropriate systemic measures. We need to know that the recovery board can save only on services, on quality and on health services safety. And also on the staff, that's probably the firing of nurses and the other support staff. All of this can reduce the quality and safety of our people's health treatment and accessibility, so we can be afraid of what is currently going on. That is why I will also, and I believe, that the Members of Desus, who for a good time have been alerting us to the absence of systemic measures and who, with the above-mentioned part of the law, are not the most satisfied, have closely monitored what is going to happen. However, since we are aware that these funds are low, but there is a need for additional resources for public institutions, I will support this law regardless of the shortcomings of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u37	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I do not think that this law would be necessary if the saints of the institution, who actually exercise the rights of the founders, performed their duties; and if the minister had also consistently respected the law on the implementation of the budget, which also imposes immediate action when the loss is detected in a particular institution. Today we find that this is not the case. Nothing will happen in the Holy Office, in all those where remedial measures will be put in place. In my opinion, we should resolve all the sacred institutions involved in the rehabilitation programme; in particular, the University Clinical Centre, which has the greatest loss. Without this, the recovery programme will certainly not be carried out as it should be carried out. In addition, money is a fact, 136 million will be earmarked for the payment of suppliers and liabilities to banks. Once again, when we talk about banks and suppliers, it is not a money problem; but when we talk about waiting types and nurses, it is an enormous problem; so for people there is no money, for banks and suppliers, of course, money. Next, I would like to point out whether the Court of Auditors has reviewed the operations of these institutions because we are constantly facing losses. Was there an Court of Auditors in the UKC when? And when was the last time? If not; this is an emergency. We don't have normatives and standards. How will spending of resources be monitored if we do not have standards and standards? What is justifiable and what is not? The recovery committee will also demonstrate this firstly to the world of the institution, which has obviously done nothing at this stage to review this action. The administrations will remain the same and will be the health authorities. So one and the same will spend this money, which will not bring about the desired goal of reducing species and improving the health condition of those in need of health care. One more thing. I warn you all the time, why does the law on late interest in Slovenia not change? We have the highest interest rate on late interest, only Slovenia has 8% interest on late payments. Why don't we change this marriage? It would immediately reduce the cost of all these outstanding payments. But we don't have that in mind, just an extension of the payment deadlines. The law, however, has an interest rate of 8 %, which is the largest in Europe. Why is this measure not implemented? We can take him out now. I would expect that all contracts with suppliers would also have anti-corruption clauses. Do they have them? Have they been reviewed by the World Institute? Who reviewed corruption in a particular contract? Has any measure been taken? Has only one contract been terminated because the suspicion of corruption risk is high? And if these measures have not been implemented, then in fact it is not possible to give as much as 136 million for something that has not been done. And I do warn you, saints of institutions that have not done their duties as founders should be replaced. Today, the National Assembly will take over if it adopts this law, the responsibility of itself as the founder and the burden of the sacred institutions of responsibility, which actually exercise the right of the founder in practice. Are we really ready to take this? At least the Court of Auditors should look at all of this and then come to the National Assembly and take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u39	I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so I am giving you the opportunity to apply for the debate. Here you go. Check in. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u40	Have a nice hello again! I think we have a bit of a schizophrenic situation in the National Assembly today. Members of the coalition urge us not to adopt or support this law, which is a little unusual. But, okay, it's like this right now in this government and it's in this coalition. Two hours, and I waited a little longer before I answered, because I expected the Minister from all the notes she had made in two hours to say something and answer the dilemmas. What about the demarcating of market activity and public service; what about the problem mentioned with the European Commission; what about employees? But unfortunately – nothing, and I think it will stay that way until the end. Responsibility for the health situation. It's also interesting to hear how two parties in the same coalition point with their finger at the minister and the biggest client. Yes, surely the Party of the Modern Centre and the Minister are most responsible for the situation as it is. But you too cannot escape your responsibility if for three years, according to her household, you hold a stand that does not change in the field of health or has made things worse in these three years. And even more so is the transfer of a colleague from Desus who blames all governments for their backs, but at the same time does not say that Desus was part of all these governments. Desus sat in all these governments. Then we can say that Desus is the most responsible, that the health situation is what it is. In all governments from 2004 to 2017. But from what we're saying here today and people are hearing, unfortunately, it won't be any different. Money; how much was taken away from the healthcare system. Dear Minister, I've looked at the health insurance balance sheet, not to mention. In 2016, 2 billion and a half million people entered the health treasury, in 2013 – 2 billion 290. As much money as there is in the health system today, there has never been in our country's history. But problems are as they have never been in our country's history. 10% more in 2016; this year there will be an additional €100 million. Yes, the losses were accumulated, yes, they were created in those most difficult times, but today, at the rate of four percent economic growth, we should know these problems say no and make them stop. You don't know. For 30% there are longer waiting species. Believe it or not, it really hurt me the last time you interpellationed me when you strung down to wait in these rows and stand alone by the people who want to. One doesn't sign up, the other calls wrong, the third ones move on, and so on. And like I said, people from what we're saying today will have nothing. I have announced my own support for this law, but with everything I hear from the coalition species, I now have a serious dilemma. If you have not even managed to convince your own Members that this law is necessary; I do not know, it is still time to hear your arguments. Prime Minister Cerar has been protecting you for three years and will certainly be the most responsible for health care at the end of this government's term of office in a much more difficult situation than it was at the beginning. In another minister, who also had a problem or a desire to set things straight, this is at the public office in Idrija, he did not think of anything at all. It is said that only those of their own kind should be protected. But from another coalition party, things can be arranged quickly. That is why it is his greatest responsibility; however, Desus and SD cannot escape this responsibility for the health situation. I've said many times that this government and this coalition of health problems will not solve. All of this will, unfortunately, have to wait for a new, more responsible government and a new, more responsible coalition. Unfortunately, at the expense of and to the health of the Slovenes and Slovenes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u41	We have a wish for a replica. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I would like to say that the Prime Minister, who sat at the Ministry of Health, was also the President of the Government and also knows the structure of the Finance Ministry. And even when I was in the government, it became clear to me that the decision makers were in charge of what was going on in this area, the finance ministers, the President of the Government and the Ministers for Health. And when it appears here with a finger to others, it is necessary to say that the finger should sometimes point at itself; and the lady regularly forgets that. In addition, I would point to the error she had made before when she spoke about the pensioner's regression and the manna of €21 million. In short, this regression has long been paid out, probably already spent. And those 21 additional millions of euros were also provided and then also announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u43	Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. Earlier it was said in the debate, do you know how many employees with an average salary paid for the Slovenian health system; and that this is not free and that this figure is EUR 2 000 per year. Here I can return the question. Do you know how much a broken femur surgery costs? Or how much does it cost to treat cancer? So much so that, in the principle of the American health system, such a person would die smoothly with our average salary because he simply could not afford such treatment. With two thirds of our active employees living below the average wage level. Although our public health system is not as solid as we want it in Levica, it is still very solid and provides health care for those who cannot afford it. As far as comparisons with Austria are concerned, the following is true. The Austrian health system gives comparable results to Slovenia, only the Austrians give more than twice as much per capita money for their health care site as we give in this country. At the primary level, where Austria has the most private practices, this system is the most inefficient, possibly even less efficient than the Slovenian system. But the more money there is, the difference is settled there and the supply is faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u45	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you, Chairman. Let's go from the beginning. There have been more indications today that this law does not solve what is wrong inside. Of course, there was also much to be said for the sake of the law, but before responding, he would further explain certain content. First, one historical view, one view from a distance. We have public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. These are hospitals. We have public health institutions set up by congregations, these are health homes. And we're not talking about these health homes today; we're talking about hospitals. Why have certain hospitals in the past dealt with red numbers? Of course there are more reasons. Some of these reasons are certain that poor business decisions have been taken by management in the past, which, for example, have led to the fact that the hospital is now in red numbers. It is also likely that wrong decisions were made only in the business of the day. But this is also true, and you have mentioned many times today that the problem in our system is the financing of health services, the low price of health services, or the unrealistic price, however you wish. The price paid by the health department, this is called the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, is paid to individual providers for the services they perform for us, patients, there. Of course, the easiest thing to say is that we don't need this law, let's forget that back, let's raise the price of services, and then eventually it'll be even. I'm afraid it's not that easy. As I have already said in the opening position, when I represented the position of our Group, the fact is that not all of these losses occurred yesterday, not before yesterday, but over the years; also in our mandate, these things have accumulated. And with the partial increase in service prices in recent years, the situation has improved slightly, but far from the situation being able to be permanently rectified. So we have these health care institutions that are in these red numbers and that urgently need financial recovery. I'm talking about financial recovery. I'm not just talking about financial resources. Because if we put only money in this health system for these providers and let them have it autonomously and decide what they're going to do with it, then they'll probably be in a similar situation in a few months. Therefore, the law provided for the establishment of some control mechanisms, some control mechanisms. It provides for the establishment of a recovery committee as a consultative body with the Minister of Health to be evaluated; firstly, guidance to hospital management, evaluation of their rehabilitation plans, evaluation of their rehabilitation programmes, evaluation of the implementation of these programmes and, where appropriate, propose corrections to the plan of this rehabilitation programme. In the event that the management of a public health institution, some hospitals would not carry out this rehabilitation in the manner envisaged and necessary, the Minister may also propose the replacement of this management. And this is what some of you have discussed today is disturbing. Why it bothers you, everyone can create their own picture. But in the same breath, talk about what is said to be a "cadarian cracking through public health institutions", but it is still a little depressed. At the same time, those who oppose this control mechanism and possible sanctions, as sanctions will only be applied if recovery programmes are not implemented, say that management has not done well so that they can be replaced earlier. If you are saying that this is fine, then look at the law, such as the Law on Institutions; and then you will see what the powers of someone are; what the powers of the boards of public health institutions are; what the powers of the minister of health are; and finally, the minister is responsible for everything. I would also return to these reasons that led to some public health establishments being in red numbers. I will point out one hospital, that is Topolšica Hospital, where the previous management with very unwise business moves and credit without coverage and other very suspicious business moves led to a literal hospital before the collapse. And it's also one of those hospitals that's getting rid of her. There is now a new leadership that works differently; but the hole that was created at that time is insurmountable by regular business. He also made it clear that there is no law governing public health institutions. This is a law that the Ministry has been ready for some time, but unfortunately we are prisoners here again. As long as the Law on Institutions is in force as it is; as long as the wage system in the public sector is in force as it is, the placement of this law within the system is a little longer and unfortunately takes longer; but I believe that, in the end, the Ministry of Health will find a solution, especially with the Ministry of Public Administration and also with the Ministry of Finance, which will be appropriate. This law is urgently needed if we want these guidelines to work for the future to be significantly better. Colleague Godec said when she was accused of treason by colleague Kordiš that they had not sued the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. their own country, before the European Commission; or complained if you wanted to. Of course that's not true. If you look at the Magnography of the Health Committee – I well remember your words because I led this session – you said you would make this application yourself. You can look at that and deny me if you can; but I'm sorry you won't be able to. My friend Pogačnik said why we need to bring in a rescue team. Nothing new is being introduced into the system, and the current administrations are becoming ambulances. So there will be no new developments over the operation and implementation of this rehabilitation, these to the newly appointed or reformed rehabilitation administrations. I will not go into the other dilemmas of private, public, private, because certain debaters wanted to bring debate or debate more widely when this law is being considered. For the end of this, the prices of the service. As already mentioned at the outset, the prices of certain health services are clearly underfunded and are too low. In order to fix this, it is not just about blowing up, it is also necessary to do so; it is overpaid, certain are underpaid. But that won't be enough either. Last week, I told the Minister of Health that the law on health care and health insurance is still a key law to be adopted. This is a law that will re-establish a fair funding system, redefine funding sources and bring additional resources to the health treasury; something from the budget, and something from the users of the health system themselves. This is only part, one area that will be regulated by this coming law. I am only talking about it because it is essential that the debate we have today and the problems we are solving today do not have to be resolved in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u47	Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you. I know that I am next in line, but I do not answer because I do not have time, but because I have listened to the predecessor who has focused on two matters – one is the financial framework of this law and the other is the recovery committees. Dear leadership of the National Assembly, I have two questions for you. First, when I read the law, it reads: "The law provides for a one-off transfer from the state budget... and the law has one-off financial implications for the state budget in 2017." All those who are in the National Assembly more than this mandate when all constitutional and legal provisions concerning the fulfilment of financial and budgetary matters are being violated, we, with respect for leadership, are interested in which article of the Rules of Procedure you have incorporated this law into the procedure. For not only on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but also on the basis of parliamentary practice, which until now has always followed the Rules of Procedure, the law could not be dealt with in the National Assembly for the current year, unless budgetary appropriations were provided in the budget. And today we are hearing about how this law will bring about a rebalancing government. Madam Vice-President, I ask that you give an answer to all Members before proceeding, how it is possible to deal with a law that has no financial implications. Moreover, the well-respected leadership of the National Assembly has not only been provided138 million to cover a single transfer. It says here, "for the remuneration of members of the recovery board and the payment of the recovery committee, funds will be provided under a special government project for which funds will be provided under the Ministry of Health's financial plan." And here, Mr President or Vice-President, I ask both you and the Ministry of Finance whether these financial resources are provided under the 2017 budget. If not, it is an eccentric violation of what is said to it, which must be fulfilled by every law, namely, the objectives, principles and financial structure of the law. I therefore ask you, before continuing, where are these funds in the budget? And if not, why is this law included in today’s session of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u49	You pointed the ball at me or in the lead to answer: Article 115. I will point out that this is a typical abuse of your time, but it seems more important to continue. Mrs. Jelka Godec, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u50	In the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee, we never said that the Slovenian Democratic Party would press charges against the country of the Republic of Slovenia for unlawful state aid, but we said that this could also happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u51	We continue with Mr. Tomas Lisce. You have a good minute or two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President. I hope that you will be so voluntary to the opposition's proposals when we have laws in the procedure, we will have no margin for financial consequences for the current year, either the SDS or perhaps colleagues from the United Left, invited to draft laws that will have financial implications for the year 2017. I hope that the answer will be the same, in accordance with Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, that the law fulfils the conditions. As for the losses and the recovery committees. Dear Minister, this is where I read the articles, so professional, especially the professional ones, where it says the Health Loss File. And this reference to the predecessors, how all the predecessors were guilty of loss — a lie was established. Most of the losses in hospitals in Slovenia were incurred in 2015, 2016 and are due in 2017. In years, the distinguished minister, when you're responsible, when you're changing sacred institutions, when you're changing directors, the financial consequences are clear, even greater losses to your administrations, or you name them. That's probably the story with the recovery committees. Those who are part of the problem are supposed to solve these problems according to you. In short, we'll probably have a new intervention law later on to cover your stupid decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u53	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Today we will devote a good part of the day to health policy. There wasn't enough interpretation, there weren't enough committees and everything else, we're going to be discussing for about seven more hours today. But, of course, it is a practice to always mention and discuss one topic within the healthcare system, we do not like to stick to the essence that we have today on the agenda. We are talking about everything around, which, of course, only means two; either we are running out of arguments or we are simply thinking or you think it will be possible to bring the story more convincing if we talk about five things that do not have so-called connections. However, I will try to stick mainly to the themes of today and, above all, to some of the observations proposed by the opposition. Some rightly ask questions and, of course, some are more than clear that it is a deliberate misunderstanding or, as it is said, a deliberate deception. I'll take my turn. In the beginning, I have to answer, given that I have been mentioned, and I have not even discussed and I have not been able to replicate my colleague Nadi Brinovšek. It's a very ungrateful mission when you mention someone, and he hasn't even stopped by. Well, she stopped by to stock up for the back. She quoted my performances, and I want you to quote them as many times as possible, and I confirm once again: everything you quoted is true. I really like that you're summarizing me. But I'll give you an answer in your style. Look, I wouldn't say, God have mercy on what we're actually doing, but I'd rather use a different thesis: help yourself, and God will help you. So I suggest you call on the health system as little as possible, because otherwise everything will go to hell if we leave it to him to act. So little to start with. Now I'm going to go to the point where you have to answer. Today, my colleague Horvat mentioned and really devoted a good part of his debate to the already well-known fact, which I have discussed several times, these are the last of my desperate cries and calls for help how to privatise the health system as soon as possible. More! Today he allowed himself something I was afraid of, and I mentioned several times in my debate, and therefore I am obliged to explain certain things to the Slovenian public. In fact, he referred even to Dr. Gregorič, a renowned Slovenian doctor, a top expert in his field, who provides quality and professional services in a well-known American clinic. Then, of course, he adds and says what he said two years ago and then repeated twice at various symposiums, last year – or yes, last fall in Portorož – that concessions should be abolished. You know, this is said by a doctor who is extremely well paid and works for a bono here and there, but does not say that it is coming – and it does so in a country where 30 million people, because of such a quality privatized health system, do not get medical care and really die there. That's a fact! More importantly, he actually advocates another concept – not to have a concession, but everyone in that country must have the same right to access the payment of healthcare services. That's his concept. Which means, in other words, you finish your medical school, you open your infirmary, and you're guaranteed a simple job, because the cash register will pay you as long as it has. I will choose those cases that are well paid, where it is difficult, complicated and difficult and super expensive, or even scientifically and researchally, whether it goes to tertiary institutions or public institutions, hospitals, because they do business only where it is said that we create loss. Of course it won't work. Moreover, he claimed that we had taken over a system from the previous regime. I don't know now, but last time we adopted legislation in the last century, or just after the independence, but not in 2002, pardon, 1993, 1994, but much later – 1995, 1996 and then for a long time no longer thought about taking over socialist systems. But we did something else. Of course, we transferred the money from the budget to the health treasury, which was not in the previous healthcare system, but they had SIS and similar things. This, of course, blurs the picture from those who think that this will work better. However, we will talk more about this when we have a debate on the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. Nor is it true that in this country we have not agreed on what public health should be. That's not true! We already have it and we are talking about the public health system and it is legal and valid. Or we want to upgrade it, make it better, systemically supplement it, which is another question. By saying that we do not have consensus and that we do not have this system, of course, is irresponsible, but especially very misleading, or I will use the word used by Ambassador Godec very modern in the last month — it is a lie. Don't you? It's just a language that comes more from that side. But to make this language easier to understand, of course I will use it myself. The next thing that seems important to me is, of course, those unfortunate debts that we're talking about. You know, talking about losing in hospitals, or if I'm just going to define myself as the founder of the Republic of Slovenia or as accumulating losses, of course, is one important difference, depending on when we want to use it and what needs it is. Mrs. Brinovcheva made it very clear: "We do have that hospital that has lost. What about those who don't have them?" Why, though, can they do well in this system if everything else is wrong with what it states? And let's see who actually has a cumulative loss so we can see what hospitals are actually affected by what areas. Among them we will not find a hospital that is large and provides all services, but extremely small, I will say, or I will say smaller institutions. We have Valdoltro who has no cumulative loss or deficit, then we have Golnik here, then there's Soča, then we have Postojna and Sežana and then it ends. What is the common denominator of these [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, he is, and there's another one, and there's no more mixing the business outcome with the cumulative loss. [[…]] I'll come if you'll excuse me, Madam Ambassador. I know you're very kind by nature, but be still in this room, and I'll be very happy. What is important about the common denominator of these is that they are highly specialized. Everyone I've listed and they don't have as much services as all the other hospitals have, and that's the big difference. Does it also matter what direction and organization is? I'm sure! But we will measure this when we look at the business outcome for the current year and see who joins them in the business outcome. It is also the Oncological Institute of Ljubljana, and then we have Jesenice and Isolo. However, one difference is that the three I have just mentioned have a cumulative loss in 2016. So, of course, here is the question of who is actually guilty and responsible in the whole matter. Today we have heard that we have here sacred institutions, that we have leadership here, and that we should all do our part. I agree that no hospital is the same as the other; we may have poor administrations, we have impossible collectives, we have impossible organizations or we have incorrect councils of institutions. Everyone is likely to have a share that can actually influence a situation. Why do we reward those I have listened to today who have created a loss or a deficit? It's not really a reward, it's a rehabilitation. I am particularly disgusted when I listen to some Members who say you know this 136 million plus 7 million amortisation – a write-off of depreciation, remember that it is not just 136 million – that this is not about patients. Yeah, for God's sake, who is it if not patients? It's about the services that were or will I say things that have already been done. For who? I hope it's not for someone, it's for patients. And as a result, of course, if we do not cover this debt, patients will again be affected by the fact that certain services will no longer be able to be implemented. So don't say it's not patients. However, no one said that it was a matter of reducing waiting lines, which, of course, is not a topic today, at least not in this law, but it will certainly be later on. That's just how these things have to be said out loud. But here's another thing I've heard today, that's why there are no losses covered by those who also worked within the public health network, and now it will only cover where the founder of the Republic of Slovenia is. Forgive me, for the first time this would be illegal, the Republic of Slovenia can't even cover the loss of a private legal person, it's not possible if you show me this article, how this will work out, and that this will be legal, then of course I'll reward someone else with something else, I'd rather not tell you what. The other thing that seems important to me is that today it was operated on one document, which was mentioned twice by colleague Godec both in his presentation and in the discussion below, when he discusses some document that he is supposed to have, thanks to her, because he is to be discussed on the Health Committee, appeared in public institutions, where he should provide certain information on the delimitation of services between the public and market relations. [[…]] Otherwise, I asked myself, and I can say, colleague Godec is of course not so important, but even less her questions and discussions on the committee that this document should appear because she said, "It is interesting that this document appeared immediately after the committee." In fact, you know that under the Court of Auditors Act, every year the Court of Auditors enters different areas and this year into four ministries, one of which is the Ministry of Health, where it was necessary to request certain public institutions operating over 40 million, at the request of the Court of Auditors, to revise the data on public and market demarcation. It is, of course, insane to talk about the fact that the public institution does not know what is public and what is marketable, because we already have this very clearly defined by law today. Article 9 of the Accounting Act and Article 23 of the Regulation on the compilation of annual reports for the budget, budgetary users and other public law entities define this very clearly. That is why this document also appeared, which probably was not well understood by many when they received it. Of course, now they think they must have certain elements. Indeed, this document or regulation is very clear today that where it is impossible for courts to determine this distinction, this can be seen on the revenue side when we see how they are paid, and this can be properly determined as much as on the revenue side as on the expenditure side. Thus, of course, this letter has nothing to do with this question raised by Ambassador Godec. However, if necessary, more will be said by the Minister. Let me tell you something that seems very important to me. A colleague of Bratušek spoke about when and why debts were incurred, which mandate, and who, in fact, is the one who can or should say or do something about it. If we look at the exact data, when and why something was happening in the health treasury, we can see that during the period 2014 to 2016, revenue in the health treasury increased from 2,368 billion in 2014, to 2 billion 518, which means that, in contrast to about 150 million in the health treasury, this increased. Now let's see why it's gotten bigger, where does this difference come from? 117.58 million are health services, or 7.05 growth. And then if we look ahead, 59.76 million due to the hospital's absence and 22.84 million for drugs and medical supplies. So to say that this has only grown due to the mass of wages or wage imbalances is at least what I can say is incorrect. Of course, within this, if we look at health services, we also have the cost of work there and we also get this real difference in what is actually happening. But they are here — and I will conclude with this, because it is necessary to repeat several times — where ideal conditions and relationships have been created in the past for hospitals to operate poorly and to create debts. One is certainly the actions of past governments, which we all know more or less, which have plagued and led to a multiple linear reduction in the prices of health services. This did not happen last year or before last year and so on, but it did happen throughout all the periods. From 2009 onwards, we have the first linear reductions, which result in – because the cumulative loss does not occur in one day or one night, but has as a consequence causes. And those who know this are also agile in their discussions today, mentioning when the cumulative loss occurred. The next is the limited availability of resources at the prices of health services. Let me say that the multiple linear reduction represents EUR 166 million less money in the health treasury. Then, due to the limited availability of resources, because not all of the costs incurred were recognised, 171 million deficits in services that were not covered. Furthermore, on the healthcare side, the payment of services did not take into account the increased VAT rates from 8 to 8,5 %, with the loss of revenue of operators of 13 million euros. Then, in 2008-2016, the health-care centre did not pay services to public hospitals that exceeded the contractually agreed framework with the general agreement agreed upon. In this case, we had a cumulative loss or uncompensated cost of EUR 580 million. Then we have here, just for information, that we can imagine what this means at the annual level. This means €64 million under this heading. This is said to be a very quick calculation of why we have such large accumulated losses. Finally, let me mention the last one, which is, it is said, unpaid contributions to compulsory health insurance, which are on day 30. 6. 2017 amounted to 23.63 million, which, of course, affects the available health funds. It is so simple to simplify that losses are caused solely by wage imbalances, it is unfair, unfair and unfair, especially if we know that certain payments have not started at all. Finally, let me say what my colleague Lisec said. Regrettably, you were not on the committee where this same issue was not clearly clarified and clarified by the Ministry of Finance, when and in what way certain things are being done in the process itself, when they require financial consequences – and this intervention law certainly speaks of financial consequences – indirectly, we all know this, because we speak of them publicly, 136 million means, of course, on the basis of the Public Finance Act, article 40, that the Minister must act at that time. Where a balanced budget is no longer involved, first, what needs to happen must be temporarily stopped from implementing the budget. This has also been done a week ago, and this is also happening, and we all know this, preparations for a rebalancing that we will talk about and will certainly be on the spot, in what way, and then, of course, the Minister of Finance will have to tell us how and where this money will also be provided under the budget. But the fact is, we need to know that 136 million euros does not mean pure automation; and thank God it is. This does not mean that today we will accept that 136 million will also be actually paid, but that, within the framework of the rehabilitation administrations – and not least, the supervision of the recovery committee of course – will also be properly monitored and paid for only what will be proven and submitted in the context of this procedure in the sole request for payment or for payment. Finally, let me just say this: the intervention law means an intervention measure, which, of course, no one wants it to be systemic and cannot even be systemic. The intervention law also has its own duration and, last but not least, when it ends and ends. I adequately support this early adoption of the law, and I believe that this is only one part of what needs to be done within the healthcare system in order to improve the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u55	Before I launch another round of applications, allow me to give the floor first to the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! I will try to answer those key points or questions from the debate so far. First. Mrs Godcheva in one breath says that I caused the losses, then she says it's all the directors' fault, for once it's the price of the service. All I want and stress is facts and arguments. Neither did anyone go beyond guilt or responsibility to the past. In addition to the fact that the debate has repeatedly described what has been done in the past and has been remedied, the fact is: also public finances, partly at the expense of health. So, the losses, as I said at the beginning of this government's mandate, were EUR 131.4 million, in 2015 2.2 and in 2016 36.6, which is 170. However, the reasons are complex and varied. Of course, the biggest reason is that the price of services has been reduced indiscriminately in the past. However, it should also be pointed out that in the last two years, between 2013 and the end of 2015, the number of treatments or patients increased by 14%, if you wish, and 176 000 people were treated more. It's an added reason. In the last two years, we have actually had enormous increases in hospital benefits over 30 days. Look, only in the last good two years have we paid more than €80 million for this. Of course, for this money, it was less for health services. If this money were available this year, this would mean a 5 per cent increase in the price of services and would somehow be able to operate on a level playing field with all these increases. So no one wants to, but let's be realistic and tell the facts. And that's why intervention law is needed today. You're all forgetting, the system laws are still valid, because if you brought a system law, you'd tell me I'm proposing constitutionally controversial solutions because you can't enforce them backwards. That's why they're intervention laws. Next fact. You're saying it'll be nothing for patients. Next truth. Yes, of course it will; medications, medical devices will be provided regularly so that services can be provided. Let's not order anything for the waiting years. Why not? This year alone, the government has given an additional 41 million to reduce waiting periods, which are also shrinking. I'm not going to talk about lists anymore, about reality, because I've already told and promised him by the end of the year. Next fact, you're all telling me that my agreement was signed with the Fides syndicate, and I don't know how much extra money. To this day, this agreement has not even passed an extra euro! Not from the Ministry, not from the health department! It is, however, a fact that general negotiations and relaxation in a certain part of the austerity measures are advances 1. 9. Of course, wages were raised, but according to how the programmes were paid were not adequately covered. Borrowed Mr. Horvath. €7.6 million is loans to a single treasury account on day 30. 6. Mr. Cordesh. You can see that there are no more restrictions on who can be on the recovery committee, including on the proposal of the legislative service. And there's something else that's kind of comparing me. [[…]] If we are already making comparisons, we cannot compare these 136 million with the budget of the Ministry of Health. Please! This should be compared to the health-care budget of 3.2 billion and this represents, you will not believe, 0.4 percent. As regards this, since 2007, as well as the new Law of 2011, the Transparency of Financial Relations and Separate Recording Act, all institutions must have separate records, market activity, public service, as this is ultimately also a matter of additional awards or non-rewards if it is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u57	I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Miha Kordish has the word, but I find that you no longer have time available or for 8 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u58	The answer regarding possible redundancies on the part of the remedial boards is that they will not be nurses, cleaners, and so on without checkers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u59	We continue with Mrs. Ivo Dimic. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you very much. All those who accompany today's meeting, where we are talking about how much money will still have to be invested in health care so that the country can provide some good public health care to all citizens under the same conditions. And the debates go in this direction, so that some people just talk a lot, say little. It seems to me that walking between us Members, what some say, may not even be appropriate, because it seems to me that this is more controversy with them, but some clear images of a future well-managed country have not been a speech. She is the minister, and I will return to the interpolation myself, said: “I am not responsible for the situation in the healthcare system. I inherited 132 million already negative status." That's right. That's why, as Minister, you're probably responsible that you haven't recovered this medical condition, that we'll all spend $136 million on recovery, 80% on rehabilitation, on our public health system. All too often it has been said that planning as a planned economy in our public institutions is no longer appropriate. You are also reminded by directors and heads of public institutions that it is difficult at the beginning of the year or at the end of the year to predict what will happen in a public health institution next year. Of course, some grades can be made, not that way, I'll say, strictly concrete, but as much as it will be, it won't be paid. However, it can happen for various reasons, and simply then public institutions are in a negative situation. Above all, I think today, when there were speeches, concessions up, concessions down, it is important that every citizen has access to the public health system under the same conditions and as soon as possible. This “as soon as possible” is the foundation that should first be created. It's not just money to pump! I've been listening for a year, so much, so much, and again and again and again. And people are still waiting for surgery, including malignant surgery for more than six months. I can't imagine anyone who could live with a life-threatening illness and leave you at home for six months or even the question of getting a hospital stock and going to work to get their turn. It seems to me that our health system is not that cheap. And the OECD comments, which Slovenia must pay the most attention to in the coming year or in the future, are also that sustainable growth must have, that population ageing is a problem and, of course, this has the most impact on healthcare and, of course, that it is productive in some way. It was also at the interpolation, even today exposed to the amount of payments paid abroad by the 4-member family for basic health insurance. Once again, there is also a 4-member family in Slovenia. In the grave, it's between 3 and 4 thousand, a 4-member family, if both parents are employed. We're talking about working parents. This seems to me and I support that it is right that we have a solidarity system, that those who are more sick should also receive medicines, even if they may contribute less. [[…]] This is our solidarity system on which it is based. But it seems to me that as a minister, you have the opportunity to act and step on your fingers and examine what has happened in individual institutions because of this. Is it just a planning error? [[…]] However, as Minister, you are responsible for the negative situation in the Slovenian health system and, lastly, for longer periods of waiting. It's hard to say any system would be better. Nevertheless, a person who pays in and who needs health care expects him to be able to benefit from what he has paid, despite his solidarity. I'm not saying you'll take advantage of it every day, but when it's necessary. And in Slovenia we have a situation where it is necessary for things to begin this way and that, however, this waiting period also begins to decrease in some way. I'm sure it would be our model that we're proposing to follow the money to the patient, the easiest. If I were to follow the money to the patient, I'm sure that every patient would get to their hospital as quickly as possible, to their care, to a doctor, to a specialist, maybe to the necessary surgery. However, it is difficult to understand that it would still be possible to look together, always in New Slovenia we say, we are not looking for culprits, we want to look for solutions, options given to reach such a system. We want to create a system. Once again, I stress: a public system that is accessible to all under the same conditions. 136 million euros in aid is even more than the entire year's budgeted ministry. This is the budget of the Ministry of Health. She knew 94, 95 million. What am I trying to say? Maybe even the ministry doesn't have enough money to make it work better. I'm asking, but no! It seems to me that it is also necessary for the Minister to give power in some way to drive matters, whether she is the prisoner of various lobbyists who actually want to have health care in their hands, regardless of the cost of health, the lives of citizens and citizens. Being so illiquid that someone or some public health agency doesn't even get drugs, medical supplies, but it's the wrong way in this country. That public health institutions are blocked and that they do not get from suppliers of medicines that citizens need! For me, it's a one-way trip, a step forward that takes us to Venezuela.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u61	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u62	In fact, I agree with this last one, as my colleague said, that it would be better not to look for culprits but for solutions. After three years, you too are constantly turning back. I have no problem alone, and I always say that it is not just this minister and this government that is responsible and responsible for the situation. It's not! But she's guilty and responsible for not doing anything for three years. And it's nothing. Now it explains 136 or 130 million accumulated losses, but in three years this is the first time we have heard about these problems. Every time we discussed this in Parliament, she rejected us that it was not a problem, that it was the responsibility of the institutions and that the institutions should solve it themselves. Once again, I have no problem; yes, I could, too, do more for the health sector. But in those times, the most difficult times, my government had one another, a very important task – the financial stabilisation of the country. We did it, and in three years in the field of health, you haven't actually done anything. Maybe one more thing. Yes, hospital absences or costs associated with hospital absences are increasing. And we've been saying that for three years. Don't you realize that's because people stand in line and don't come to the hospital? We explain to you that it would be significantly better to give this money immediately for examinations, interventions and would be less patient. Now you're using this as an argument as to why the losses are coming. Yeah, not everything's on the payroll, but it's a big part on the payroll. Between 2009 and 2014, there were losses of 130 million, but in 2015, 2016 and 2017 there will be an additional 100. So you're twice as successful at cumulating or creating losses as it used to be. In fact, I stopped by because of a replica of a colleague from Desus who said the truth, and of course I have to fix it. First of all, as far as responsibility is concerned. I told myself, but the fact is, the Desus client was also responsible for the Ministry of Health for several years. In fact, it sits in all governments from 2004 to 2017 and you cannot escape responsibility without being able to. You can't! I'd expect a colleague to know that. Now, I'm going to say it one more time about the pensioner regression. Crisis measures still apply, and pensioners still did not get what they should have received this year if there were no measures. The regress was paid at five levels, 400, 260, 200, 150 and 90 Euros, by law without measures should be at two levels. And I explain that you have convinced us, and that would require an additional EUR 21 million. At that time, it was said that these 21 million euros were completely spreading public finances. In short, it has been impossible to provide this 21 million and to complete the measures felt by pensioners since the start of the crisis. 21 million are collapsing public finances, total collapse, and 140 million can! I made this comparison. And it's not right. I mean, right or wrong, probably on purpose. [[…]] But I think it's right for pensioners to know how and what. Otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues, today's speech will not help the health care industry. We will help significantly more with the awareness of the Minister and the coalition that the problems are that these problems need to be tackled and not denied. They're kind of waiting. The fact is, for the first time in the history of our country, people suffering from cancer are waiting, as has been said. And they wait; they don't wait six months, but three weeks that uncertainty is probably too much for such people. Under this government and this coalition, health problems, unfortunately, will not be any smaller.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u63	As I note that there is still interest in the debate, I ask you to apply. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u64	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister, her colleagues and colleagues! After all this time, it is very difficult to say anything new. Above all, I must say that most of these cases have already been brought before the Minister of Health when interpreting against him. We express them just as we think they are right, and the differences in our expression are very obvious. At first, I must say that I will support this intervention law. We all talk about how much additional funding is provided for the field of regulation; it is simple and simple to lose in health care institutions on day 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This amount of 136 million is not the only amount. In fact, 8 million of these funds are also deducted from depreciation to health institutions. Which, above all, stabbed me here in some way; that is, I was at a few of these meetings where we discussed the matter, and it was originally said that we need 60 million to cover these losses. In the morning before this meeting, however, I learned from the media that this deficit is significantly greater than 60 million, but they said in public that it is 340, if I recall correctly, the millions we need to rehabilitate health institutions. It's a fire department. We are probably all aware of this and the minister, the ministry in charge of the Minister, will have to draw up system laws, otherwise next year we will be discussing that we have to put out the fire because the deficits in the health institutions will rise again or again. In this matter, I have been particularly encouraged by one matter to consider whether it is advisable to combine institutions, and these institutions, which we join together, are lost. I don't think that's a good thing to do, and I wouldn't recommend to the ministry or the minister that he actually does that or that he's bringing these institutions together. There was also a great deal of talk about what is important in solving the health problem. I am well aware that, at the beginning of my term, I have made one recommendation to the President of the Government, or I have suggested to him that, in order to resolve the health issue, the Minister of Health must feel the strong support of the President of the Government and also of the Minister of Finance or Minister of Finance. Yeah, that's the only way the health problem can be solved, and in this case there is support, but we haven't solved the problem yet. Now, have we not handled this problem well, or do we still need some time? Why did I point that out? This is mainly because the predecessor, Alenka Bratušek, spoke about the fact that Desus had a minister in the field of health. This is true, and this was already in the government of Janez Janša. That is true, we cannot deny it, it is a well-known fact. But what is the key issue? The key problem is that the Prime Minister did not stand for the Minister of Health and the reason for his resignation was because he felt powerless because he did not have the support of the largest coalition party. Here's Mrs. Alenka's key problem. If I am not mistaken, Mrs Alenka Bratušek has been running the ministry for some time, but I understand that the Prime Minister cannot focus on the work of a particular ministry. But when you're in the opposition, of course, it's very nice and interesting to criticize and say what someone has to do, and you didn't do it before. Yes, I agree in one part of the discussion with my colleague Bratuškovo, in the part where he says that 136 million have been provided for this area – plus those 8 million amortisations, to which most of you forget – it is much easier to ensure this than 21 million for pensioners. Really, in this part, I agree. There's some truth in this part. But imagine when you're in the opposition, you say that when you're in the coalition, and you can do that. And everything we've done in the pension coalition, we've done because we're an integral part of this government. Today, you hold back the credit for doing something out of a parliamentary bench as an opposition MP, and you actually can't stand it or, as you once said, don't drink water. Yes, waiting types are not actually reduced by this law. These are the facts. But it is a fact that institutions can breathe and work normally if it covers them, I will simply say, this loss. In a way, Comrade Jani, because you always liked to expose Pandora's box, Pandora's box opened up with Fides' agreement in other areas of the country's operation, and he's gone after himself, and I'll say, Jacks, in which everyone in their area wanted to get rid of wages in the public sector. The Government's decision was to regulate the prices of health services, and I think that's right. At the same time, however, we must stress that systemic solutions must also be found, because we will not achieve what the practical health sector needs by shutting down. However, if the Minister had done nothing at all, I would not have agreed with that, which is also sometimes critical of the work of the Ministry of Health. However, certain movements are taking place at the Ministry, but of course much less than we all expect in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u65	Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u66	Very briefly. Dude, I don't know where you got Mr Gantar's support from, but you just have to bring solutions to the table so you can support something. But that's not the point. I said, yes, myself, even as Prime Minister, we should do more for this area. But I am surprised at today's performances of coalition MPs, both from Desus and from SD, who are all throwing mud at this minister on average, and that was the point of what I said was that Desus is in government — how many years? 13, 14, 15 years is responsible for the current health situation — is it not? We can't listen to a colleague from Desus say everyone else is guilty. Yeah, okay, we're all guilty. But, Desus, you said earlier that only when you're changing things in the government when we were talking about a pensioner's regression. From 2004 to 2017, you changed for health care – what? And that's wrong. It is wrong that we all blame one, one, the biggest government party, now that we are approaching the elections, but now the two parties will just step aside. You can't! The responsibility is lower than that of the Minister and the President of the Government, but it is certainly your responsibility to hold the stand for this situation for three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u67	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thank you very much! Yes, colleague Dimic is really -- she's gone out now, she's not interested in the subject anymore -- she actually said that here -- and some others -- we really talk a lot, but we say very little. But they're divisive anyway. Excuse me, there is controversy in Parliament, a debate about the meaning of everything, because this is the only area where we can actually exchange arguments, who is right and who is wrong. But given that it is a public transfer, let people create their own opinions on what is right and what is wrong. To come to Parliament today and anaemicly look at this matter from the presentation and confirm the matter, then we do not need the National Assembly. However, it is right to point out and now I am going to argue and have a very serious controversy with my colleague Dimic, who said: "In the country of the Republic of Slovenia, there is a cancer patient waiting for more than 6 months or more." I'm sorry, it's a fat lie, it's irresponsible of a member of the National Assembly to say such things. In addition, let him read the law, valid, still in force, not what we will be talking about in a few hours, the applicable Law on Patient Rights, and, of course, the waiting line, where a patient with malignancy cannot and must not wait more than 30 days for the first review. Then there is another problem, a matter of interpretation, when the patient is, of course, either his general physician or a specialist oncologist or one who treats his condition. Of course, it is up to the doctor, who alone, not us with Mrs Dimic or anyone else in this room, to determine, of course, what will be the timetable for dealing with this patient according to his or her terminal phase, or the invasiveness of cancer, or the situation that will be of course the most favourable for this patient. Each doctor wishes to address this matter as soon as possible and to resolve it as possible. Of course, this also depends on what conditions he has. However, I assure and I am sure that no one in the Republic of Slovenia, if of course he went to a doctor, if he was also at the specialist's examination, is waiting for more than 6 months and even more, as has been said. Well, some of you like to play with the word that everyone dies because the health system doesn't work. What does that mean? This means seriously irresponsibly serving as a member of the National Assembly, so that you slander and speak in truth conjectures that do not exist. And you spread this like cancer to everyone who sees this transmission and then, of course, they say that's what the MP of the National Assembly said and that it's even like that and you put everything into nothing. On the other hand, you say that we have good doctors, nice sisters and that the system is not working, and patients die of cancer because they have been treated for more than 6 months. I'm sorry, that's irresponsible, and that's my argument. Then there is only so much, but you know that the Member of the National Assembly declares the following sentence and says “136 million aid” Yes, for God's sake! [[…]] Has she not read the law or has no idea what we're talking about all the time? This is no help. No help! We're talking about debt. You're always talking about some bag that's got a lot of holes and we're throwing money in and that this money is going to go through these holes out. I'm sorry. If you want to fix something, you have to pay for what you owe. If a public institution whose founder is the Republic of Slovenia cannot do so, the State must do so. I don't know who doesn't get it. And to say that this is meaningless, let’s give money to handle opposite matters — that’s a fantasy! At the same time today you heard the minister that 41 million this month we paid for waiting species. And it's still worth it. In addition, 136 million — listen to this verbal link — compare with the budget of the Ministry of Health. I'm sorry, it's either a mockery or an actual ignorance of the system's functioning. We decided years ago in the National Assembly, my predecessors – ours, yours, of all of us – to set up a health treasury in order to ensure that this money is no longer in the Ministry. I don't know how to tell you guys my own way. And this is no help and comparison with the Ministry, so that there will be no more political maneuvers within the budget and that this money will not be distributed in its own way. This is why a health treasury has been established! Even so, when we set up a medical treasury, the former governments began — what? Services that do not fit in the health register were placed in the health treasury. And that's wrong. So to speak of such controversy and discussion, and finally to say that we are approaching Venezuela. [[…]] Please, this is really a mockery and ignorance or a complete incompetence and carelessness of speaking, which is what someone is doing in this national assembly. I'm sorry, at least we have so much dignity as Members to read the law and know what matter we're talking about. But if you imagine the literal humanity of the mission, that we are representatives of the people, and that we can talk about what we want in this national assembly, forgive me, then you have no idea of democracy. Democracy is not everyone's saying what he wants to say, but, above all, it's to take responsibility for what he said. And that's unworthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u69	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else would like to discuss Article 9a and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendments of the SDS Group and SMC, Desus and SD. I would like to point out that the SDS Group has tabled an amended amendment. The change was published on the e-club. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. Since no one wants to discuss the amendments, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH ACTS IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u70	Well-known Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act adopted by the Government on 20 April this year, which was submitted as a proposal for admission to the National Assembly, contains proposals, updates and updates to the organisation and implementation of health activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law has already been examined by this National Assembly on 25 May of the year when the general debate was held. Following the conclusion of the general debate, it was decided that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. In the course of the consideration of the draft law on the home working body, the text of the draft law with the amendments adopted has been improved, both individual dictions in the draft law have been improved, certain dilemmas have been removed with regard to the implementation of the law in practice, which have been raised both in the context of the consideration of the bill and in the treatment of this law on the home working body. Thus, the definition of public health services, the definition of conditions for the identification and competence of the responsible health care provider have been improved, the starting points or criteria for determining the types of health activities by means of a sub-law, the improved provisions on the exercise of control over health operators and the improvement of the text of the bill are also contained in some other articles. The proposed changes to the law will mean greater quality and safety of medical treatment or health care, increase transparency and transparency of the health system and ensure that access to comprehensive health care or to the comprehensive health services provided by public health institutions is maintained. For these reasons, the Government has insisted on the drafting of the proposed Act, although it has been the subject of opposition to the work of the professional public and medical organisations during the preparation and coordination process. In particular, the bill seeks to preserve and improve the public health system, based on the principle of national solidarity, non-profitability and the integrity of health services. As important operators in the public health service, concessionaires are kept, so the bill does not abolish them, as is often the case. The bill only regulates their entry into the public health service system, the situation and conditions of the exercise of health care activities in a transparent manner. The Government, as a motion for a law pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes that the National Assembly, at the same meeting, carry out a second and third examination of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u71	The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Branko Zorman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u72	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues, colleagues, once again, the secretary with the team! I'm going to try to suppress in five minutes what's supposed to be 15 minutes because I was accused of not reading the report in full. In short, the Health Committee is at its 24th meeting on 27. 6. 2017 and 25th meeting, held on 1 January 2017. 9. 2017 as a parent working body, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 21. 4. 2017. Within a time limit laid down, amendments were tabled by the Group of Ambassadors and the coalition parties' groups. The introductory explanation was given by the Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc on behalf of the proposer. It pointed out that the basic objectives of the proposal for a law on the regulation of conditions and procedures for obtaining a permit for the management of health activities are for all operators in the Republic of Slovenia who carry out health activities, irrespective of their organisational form. The amendment of the law establishes a system that will allow for the granting of concessions in a transparent manner and thus removes the uncertainty about the arrangements and procedures for concessions. The draft law also regulates the implementation of activities in certain social and educational institutions and examines these programmes. The proposal for a law also adds to the provision of health services for healthcare workers who are employed in public health institutions and their work outside these institutions, drawing attention to a number of recommendations from the Commission to prevent corruption. The proposal also introduces different forms of supervision over all health care providers and regulates the forms and means of advertising health activities and health services. The proposed changes will mainly mean greater quality and safety of healthcare services for patients. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was presented by Mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek and Dr Katja Triler Vrtovac. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and technical aspects and in its written opinion has made a number of observations of a legal and system nature and specific comments to each article. In its opening remarks, she drew attention to important issues relating to the provisions defining the legal nature of healthcare activities. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the position and tasks of the responsible health operator should be more precisely defined in relation to the different status and legal forms of operators of this activity and the relationship between the responsible operators of each type of activity and the professional manager, and in what way this will affect the functioning of the public health service and the definition of the public health service as a non-economic activity of general interest. At the 25th meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service of Mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek pointed out that with the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, most of the comments relating to the indeterminability and ambiguity of the legislation were now duly taken into account. It further explained and presented the articles and amendments to Articles 3, 4, 11 and 20. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by mag. Peter Požun pointed out that the Commission supports the bill. The position of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, ZZZS, was given by Director Janez Sušelj. The Institute supports the objectives of regulating concessions and the full implementation of the public health service, as practice has shown weaknesses in the implementation of compulsory health insurance over the past 25 years. In the debate, members of the opposition's committee opposed the consideration of the bill and criticised the work of the Ministry and the Minister and pointed out that many articles had been amended and that the Government should come by system law, not by amendments and additions, as the SPS also pointed out. A member of the Committee from the Levica Group expressed disappointment at the law in the sense that the privatisation of health care has come so far as to require radical changes towards the imposition of a competitive ban on the work of doctors in the public sector in the private sector, a moratorium on the granting of new concessions should be introduced and all concessions awarded unjustifiably or unlawfully should be withdrawn. In his opinion, the good public health system is the one in which the patient has the advantage, namely the one who is sick, not the consumer, that is, the one who has the deepest wallet, for example in the United States. The members of the committee, by the coalition, expressed the view that the debate did not put forward proposals aimed at improving the law itself and the field of health activity, but rather proposals about what kind of health concept some wish or imagine, while the difference between the two concepts is essential. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u73	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 9. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of SD and SMC's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, a framework definition for this issue, because we are at the first amendment, as a reference to what we stand for in Levica. We advocate public health, acting according to the principle of “everyone according to his or her abilities, everyone according to his or her needs”. It is fair that those with higher incomes contribute more, and those who earn less, of course, also contribute less. Unfortunately, this is not the case in our health system right now, at least not enough. They reign in forms of legalized corruption, supplementary health insurance, public funds flow into private, concessionary pockets, here is the afternoon work of physicians with privateists – so-called hygienist doctors – and these are all practices that lower the basic solidarity of our system. To start the supplementary health insurance Pensioner with an average pension, someone who earns a minimum wage, a student who works for a travel agent, all contribute in short, contribute in the same way, regardless of our income, and the profits of an official, politics, director at the highest levels, we all pay the same 28 euros for supplementary health insurance. [[…]] This insurance is therefore ineffective and socially unfair and supplementary health insurance should therefore be abolished. Abort. Commercial insurance companies cut 60 million euros out of insurance companies' pockets completely unwarranted, because this money, I said at the previous point, ends up in the inflated overheads of insurance companies, in their profits and so on, but it is not about strengthening the public health system. And here on the back of the people, on the back of the patients, profits are directly made. Come in. In Levica we oppose all forms of privatisation of the health system, i.e. the afternoon work of doctors in the private sector and the award of concessions. The more privatisation, the more money will be left in the pockets of health owners – yes, you have heard, health companies – and less resources will go for human health. The current situation is alarming. We have never given as much money to private people as we now give, 16 per cent of the public health budget goes to private concessionaires. These individuals, of course, generate profits from these public funds with which they are freely available. A specific case, concessionary Medic, where Igor Bavčar was treated, which is partly owned by the Ljubljana archdiocese. Although Mr Bavčar has today taken off as a heavy center at the Age, to strengthen the types of basketball club grids, the owner of the Medici still has free profits. And the money that all citizens contribute to the treatment can be used for anything but health. For example, for the luxurious residence of Cardinal Rodet or the other luxurious consumption of the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church. A moratorium, an immediate moratorium on the granting of new concessions is necessary, and the prohibition on the work of doctors from the public sector is also necessary. However, in the long run, of course, we are advocating for health care without concessionaires, that we develop the public system to the extent that concessionary massage of holes, as is the case now, will no longer be necessary. Then there are the acquisitions, where we can talk about illegal corruption; that is, those corruptions in the right sense of the word, as they also recognize it, are, say, colleagues from the right side of this hall. Therefore, public authorities must take action in the procurement of health materials. It's not criminals or just criminals. Criminal investigations can't be carried out with high fees. Here, the state, especially the Ministry of Health, must act proactively and in Levica we propose to do exactly that by setting up a public non-profit company that will actively look for the lowest prices of medical devices that will cut out intermediaries and, of course, with them their cream and any profits will return to the public health system. A single public procurement is, of course, a step forward compared to each hospital buying, purchasing its equipment, but we see what is going on. Suppliers simply agree with each other and do not want to lower prices. That's capitalism in health, that's exactly what it looks like! However, the public non-profit company is in the role of not having to charge the commission. Keep these points in mind when we consider the current government law. We made it clear to the minister that the law was going in the right direction, but that he was not determined enough to be half-hearted. Privatisation in our health system, public, has progressed so far that cosmetic adjustments are not enough to stop it and the situation is being rectified. The law is before us, it is what it is, it has its pluses and it has its minuses. Of course, we support good things, but those who are bad, let us try to make amendments. For starters, plus what's good about this marriage. It is right that health care is defined as a non-profit public service. Health must not be mild; but if this has already become so, it must be corrected. Of course, we reject the threat of the Medical Chamber that the State will sue the European Commission. It is important to tell citizens and citizens clearly that the European Union is a neoliberal organisation, but not even this neoliberal German European Union has gone so far as to define healthcare as a market activity. Good luck. Now, what's wrong with this marriage? It is unacceptable that this law legalizes the status of physicians of amphibians. Instead of fixing it, instead of banning doctors' work this afternoon, this law legalizes him. Contrary to all public sector staff subject to a competitive ban on private work, this does not apply to doctors or to healthcare professionals, but should apply; this prohibition should apply to all public servants. After all, if any of you have ever heard of any police inspector who ends his shift at his office at 3:00 p.m. at the police station, he's going to work private as a detective. I mean, I don't think you've heard of such an inspector or of any appropriateness in other areas. But you've all heard of a doctor who works in the public system, and then he goes out to the private in the afternoon. The most problematic in practice is for a simple reason that doctors are not supermen. If they work everywhere, then they run out of strength and concentration for quality work in their public office. Isn't it scandalous that the institution pays doctors to work with concessionaires with our public funds, and expensive equipment in public hospitals is busy at the same time because there is no one working on it? Isn't it crazy that the government has to pay doctors from the public sector to implement a waiting period reduction programme for concessionaires instead of doing the same work in a public institution? These things can at least be rectified to some extent by amendments. We've invested two in Levica. The first to Article 15 shall abolish the automatic extension of concessions. Here the government itself says – and of course it is right – that the concession is an exception, which is issued only where the public institution cannot really take care of human health. This is all right, but the problem is that this principled position is not translated into practice. Since this law de facto foresees that concessions will be awarded for 30 years; first, 15 years after the invitation to tender, the concessionaire must meet all the conditions and be chosen and so on. Well, then, for another 15 years, this concessionaire doesn't have to go through a public invitation to tender anymore. And where's the kneel? Yes, no public institution or municipality will invest in development if they know that the concession will be extended after 15 years. We should be investing in development! Why do we pay them taxes, but why do we pay the country so much and so much money? Yes, precisely to provide us with basic anthropological, if you want, needs such as this health care. With the amendment to Article 21, we want to prevent the quiet privatisation of our health system. Here the government proposal allows the hospital director to give the public health programme to a private person. I will quote: “Public health institutions can agree with other health care providers on the provision of health services.” End of quote. What does that mean? This means that a private company implements a publicly funded programme without even having to grant a concession. I also talked about this at the previous point, or in terms of concessions, but still. And the threat that the rehabilitation of public health institutions will also take place in such a way that this public health activity will simply sever and eliminate the situation; or, under the conditions of this provision, even hire a private company, a private company, and give them a piece of public money without these people having to go through any kind of call. In short, the government regulates the procedure for granting concessions under this law, but at the same time it itself enforces the bypass of this arrangement. This is completely incomprehensible to me and therefore we propose an amendment in Levica. If I can sum it up. We propose that in the area of extension of concessions we return to the October 2015 proposal, which was proposed by the Government or the Ministry itself in the first version, namely that concessions should only be granted for 15 years without automatic extension. If someone still wants a concession or a new concession, whatever the case, a re-examination of feasibility is made, or if the municipality, the public health institution, however, can now integrate this activity into the public health system, that is to say, the public health system. If the answer is negative, then okay, let's give the concession for another 15 years, otherwise not. This is our first amendment. The second amendment, however, states that outsourcing of health services is only possible for assistance between individual public hospitals and health homes. In such a case, even this would be difficult to call outsourcing. But if we let private companies in here deal with the management of public hospitals, this is outsourcing and privatisation in the most real sense of the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'll do it in general. When I took this mandate, I promised myself that I would not be offensive to my fellow Members or to the Government in my deliberations. But when it comes to health care, believe me, I can't get over it. If, as we are talking today about some reform laws, systemic changes, do you think it is right that the Minister on the home committee herself has taken 3 minutes to explain some systemic reform law? Today, as we can see, and at this point and at the next, the Patient Rights Act, the government took five minutes to answer our questions, our views, however. Five minutes for the reform law for her answers. Five minutes! What do you think of coalition parties about this health reform, and I will remind you a little bit about how you discussed last week at the interpolation. The SD – you said the system is collapsing, but you did not support the interpretation because it was proposed by SDS and the system is collapsing. Desus said they were very unhappy with this minister's work, but they see that the Prime Minister is in distress. That is why they supported the Minister; that is why today they will also support all these laws. Mrs Alenka Bratušek also said that “the ratios are worse from day to day” but they will not support the interpretation, even though it does more damage from day to day. Minister, you have six months to do this damage and coalition parties, and with the help of some, they will watch and support. The combined left was completely innovative, but they said they would not support the interpolation because the interpolation was written by the doctor's lobby, of which part is the minister. I hope the minister doesn't come out, that we, you and we, have written this interpretation. At least that's how a man would understand the United Left. But they were even more innovative in the SMC. They said our health system was a big mosaic and we should watch it from afar. I couldn't agree more. If we look at our health system from a distance, we will see, and if we look at it from a distance, we can look at it from a distance at the end or on the tail of a waiting species. Dear colleagues, this is what you showed last week, and I remind you once again, you'll probably regret it someday. At any cost to your political existence, you support this minister and support all laws, reform laws that are really important, only to remain, as I have already said, until the end of this government. And I cannot go any way past these flowers, which are in the general debate, it is said that when this law was first discussed here in the National Assembly, the minister said that in the SDS we unjustifiably told her that she had not cooperated with the profession. Look, Minister, you wrote it yourself in that explanation in the introduction that there were no external experts involved in the drafting of the laws. If we move on. A negative response was made to the novel or to this law by the Medical Chamber, the Young Doctors, the Association of Doctors and Dentists, the Chamber of Working Physicians, the Medical Practitioner’s Union, the Movement for the Conservation and Improvement of Public Health, the Greater Birth Society, Fides — and not to mention any further. It is interesting in all this that only the Chamber of Health and Nana Care – okay, I agree, this area is now somewhat regulated or regulated in the Health Act – for the Association of Public Health Institutions, it is so well known why and how it agreed. However, that this proposal or the Health Act agree with the Council of State, as we last said, how and how the member of this group is within the Council of State, the Morning, what links they are and so on. You have also told us that we are somehow deceiving that when we talk about this law being contrary to legislation, the Constitution and EU law. Look, at the last meeting of the parental committee, when we discussed this law, in the coalition, you did not allow the president of the Medical Chamber to join the debate. I have to say, it's just that I'm a member of the five committees, I'm a member of five other committees, it's never happened before. [[…]] It is true that the President of the Medical Chamber was not invited to continue its meeting, but was invited to the first part. And if you would listen to her then, but I hope that you have read what she wanted to explain further, because by the rules of procedure, if one of the invitees wants to make an additional explanation, she has this right. The President of the Medical Chamber only wanted to inform us of the judgment of the Labour Court and of the Social Court, which ruled that insured persons would also be granted the right to reimbursement of the cost of health care that was claimed by a private doctor or by a self-payer. So we know what that means. But you didn't want to listen to her. I strongly recommend that you read this. It is true that the decision of this working and social court is not yet legally binding, but I strongly believe that this judgment will be legally binding. Further, when we saw that this law was not in accordance with the law. You have before you or you have also received the opinion of the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law. I hope that you have also read this opinion, the conclusions of this opinion, which says that this law is contrary to the Constitution and also to the EU directive. How else was this law passed, the Reform Law? See, it is true, this law is somehow the beginnings of this law dating back to 2015, when the Ministry put this law into public debate in October, but the law covered – a law that was in the debate of the good 14 days 2015 – contained 13 articles. [[…]] 13 members! However, when we received this law for general or first reading, it had 47 articles. Thus, out of 13 in the public debate, 47 articles came to pass without any public debate; without the participation of the profession, bearing in mind that it was a profession against these changes. And there were 42 amendments to those 47 articles. And don't joke, that's no way to accept health reform, systemic change! I don't know. Minister, at the first reading, when we adopted the law, you also said that this law would not depend on desire, but on necessity. It's just that I asked you at the time, and I said, "Minister, do you know what the need is? Do you know what the need is, except for long waiting lines, if you do not have a public health network?" And according to the media, I also think that this is from your interview in Youth, you've somehow seen that concessions have been distributed in the past according to the wishes of the applicants, not according to the needs of the people. How did you know there was no need? Or can you now say that someone who has received a concession is busy and that is why a public health institution has no work? I don't think you can say that. On the other hand, I am not surprised that this is the case, since you are not yet cleared at the Ministry of Health, whether you have a public health network or not. On the one hand, your former secretary now told the Committee that within the working groups of the Ministry, in cooperation with experts, you are preparing this network, you claim to have it; well, in this explanation or in the opinion of the Government of April it is stated that the Government will produce all these tools in relation to the network of health operators – the Government explains or that the Ministry of Health will provide technical assistance to the European Commission. Now, if someone represented me. Do we have a network or don't we have it or how? However, I certainly do not accept the impression that concessions were handed out in some beautiful way, as if the concessionaire or the public institution had no work because of the fact that a concession had been granted. I'd say it's a shame that somehow you don't understand or some of you don't want to understand what public health is. See, all of Europe understands this as financing health services, whether this health service is provided by either a private person or a concessionary or a public health institution. And the fact is that such public institutions as we have known in Slovenia for more than 25 years are truly unique to Europe. I don't think this marriage is doing us any good. I am afraid that the waiting periods will continue, but you do not care at all; your main and only goal is to stay nine, six or more months until the end of this mandate. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this in Article 3? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. Our amendment to Article 15 is one of the two amendments we have prepared for this law. Both amendments are going in the direction of cutting in on the practice of legalised corruption. Why does the amendment go to Article 15? The Ministry has already proposed a draft law to limit concessions to 15 years in October 2015. This is a positive change because until now concessions have been granted for an indefinite period of time, including life. If we remember Janša's Minister Bručan, he, for example, awarded the concession for an indefinite period to MD Medicin, where the current Prime Minister Miro Cerar was treated. Under pressure from the concessionaires and the Medical Chamber, this article has been amended by the Government. Worse. It introduced the possibility for concessionaires to be extended after the end of the 15-year period of its concession by means of a simplified procedure. It is said that there will be no public tender and no chance of obtaining the concession from anyone else. Therefore, concessions will be de facto awarded for 30 years; twice or twice as long as the Ministry itself thinks it is necessary. The Socialists are therefore proposing that we return to the original proposal in the parliamentary debate. As far as the award of concessions is concerned, this concession should be awarded for fifteen years and, of course, it is in a public institution to provide the public service itself. If this proposal is adopted by Pardon, if a government proposal is adopted, no municipality will be interested in investing in a healthcare home and developing its health infrastructure. [[…]] Or the state in public hospitals, because it's still the same dog, the same mechanism is at work. They'll know: yeah, the concession is already promised to an old concessionaire, and that's it. And the process of decommissioning the public health network will continue smoothly, even stepping up. Of course, that's not acceptable. Citizens and citizens are paid taxes to the municipalities, the state, to provide or provide health care. We do not pay them to build fountains on intersections, to acquire patriots for 200 million and similar nonsense costs, we pay taxes to ensure that the country, the congregation, provides and covers some of the basic needs that we as humans have. The need for health is certainly one of the most fundamental.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! I'll be brief. I must say that I will not support this amendment, because my colleague Kordish, who is discussing it, is absolutely on his mind, speaking complete nebulism, complete stupidity and complete madness. He doesn't even know what concessionaires are, that concessionaires are part of the public health service. He's talking about some private people and so on and so forth. I think it should first be taught that it knows what concessionaires are and that it is aware and aware that they are part of the public health service and that, at this point in the health system, if any, concessionaires are functioning. There is no corruption, there is no pigs and everything that is done there – and ask, please, patients who go to concessionaires, how they are provided and whether they are satisfied with the operation of concessionaires. I think the absolute vast majority is pleased. I don't see any reason and really no reason for health institutions to be privileged. I don't see any reason. And it is right and absolutely I support the part that all of us who get to know the health system realize that concessionaires are part of public health, not some private and so on, and that some money is spent on patients and so on. You know who spends money on patients? Corruptions occurring in health systems and health institutions and in clinical centres and so on. Corruption. There's corruption going on and there's money going wrong. That's where you steal money, not from concessionaires. Or I kindly ask Mr Kordiš, if he has such information, to tell him which concessionaire was involved in corruption. While it has been shown that this is happening in clinical centres and public health institutions. Mrs Jelka, who runs the commission of inquiry, came to very important conclusions. If Mr Kordish had read what was said, I would not have said such utter nonsense and stupidity today. Really, a man who doesn't understand the essentials. Once again, Mr. Kordish, I ask you kindly to say that you know that concessionaires are part of the public health service. If you know that. And don't beat up on some private people and don't insult people, don't insult the privates, because the privates are the ones who pay you to sit here in Parliament and don't embarrass those privates who are working hard, and those workers who work with the privates are paying you to sit here and talk nonsense, total nonsense, and push after those who pay you. Shame on you in front of the entire Slovenian public! Shame on you for insulting the privates. You have no right to do so, at least as a Member of the National Assembly, and do not do so here in the National Assembly. Once again, let it be a shame to allow yourself to speak this way about people who work for you and pay you. Embarrassing for a member of the National Assembly! I hope that you will never again see the interior of the National Assembly, except from the balcony, because you do not deserve another because you are embarrassing the Slovenian people, forgive me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you. According to my colleague Pojbič, I obviously have no idea about the health system, but he himself says that he is an expert – I have no doubt, he is certainly the biggest patient in the National Assembly. As for concessions and corruption, look. I insist on the view that concessions are a form of legalised corruption. Because what is corruption by definition? It is an invasion of private interest in the public interest. And what happens to us in the concession regime? Public funds - private pockets. Then we have medical companies, such as, say, Medic, with one of the owners of the Ljubljana archdiocese, who pays his profits peacefully from this activity. And that's structurally taken, that's structurally taken corruption by the point of definition. Just because the law allows it doesn't mean it's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I would ask that we calm down, as far as these expressions are concerned about what someone knows and what no one knows and what does not. Please, if anyone else has a serious debate on the amendment to the 15th Article of the Left Group. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u84	I agree with my colleague Kordish. It is necessary to abolish all concessions, definitely because the concessionary system, as is known by the Republic of Slovenia, is not known in Europe. That is why I agree with this statement, but further on, the public funds we give to citizens for health care should be spent where they are effectively spent. This means opening a health system for all those who allow the waiting period to be reduced, the quality treatment of patients regardless of whether they are a public hospital or a private person. With all the audits, with all the checks, for all the same. Public and private. We don't need concessionaires, I agree. Because no god knows where they belong anymore. And cooperate, and the minister also said that because you believe her more than the entire world of Slovenia and the health system: concessionaires are part of the public network and the end. Pika. In a system like this we have today. Let us end concessions and make public funds available to those who can make quality, with quality material, I do not know however you want, so with some regulation, do health services, so that we will not wait for so many years and so many years for certain things. As far as concessionaires are concerned, they also have a private part. Yeah, it's true. And from that part they pay their profits, and no one can tell anyone who's doing some activity, whether it's automobilism or if it's who, if he's doing his job well, he deserves a payment for it. No matter where he is. No matter what! And, colleague Kordish, it's irresponsible to really talk about someone paying off big profits. Now I'll tell you! In public institutions, look at the doctors with yachts, weekends, and I don't know what. You won't see so much of this in private with these concessionaires. If we were with the investigator, we'd see what's going on. I'm not saying, I'm not saying that certain machinations do not occur in concessionaires. Not that. However, to a lesser extent. It's been shown so far. And once again: do not dispute people who do good, quality, who work all day long, regardless of what profession they are in, to challenge them to earn it. And public health, I agree, must be accessible to everyone, because, as you said, we are all paying and must be accessible to everyone. However, what you are now saying is in such a widespread public health system that we have in Slovenia and which is further deepened by this government, soon we will not have these quality services for this money that we are paying today. And yes, abroad they give more money for health care, but abroad materials are also cheaper. That's none of your business. Public hospitals and private hospitals have lower, lower, lower material prices. So once again, don't challenge and put out one part of the medicine that wasn't the only one who got for an indefinite time, because then there was no law that would be limits to the only one who doesn't have a concession and a contract for everyone! He's got a concession, he doesn't have a decision, and he's got a contract. That's what the secretary knows, and that's a big problem. And don't expose other private people to all the concessionaires in Slovenia that they are such that they have a lot of [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much! Mr. Miha Kordish, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. What Godec colleague describes is the kind of medical system they have in the United States. However, the most expensive system in the world, which is probably comparatively taken, is far from the least effective, and after the death of newborns and by general accessibility. 28 million people there are without health insurance. As far as corruption is concerned, the private-public sector is prohibited from making profits in the public system. Therefore, it can take place only in some dark corridors, the towers with abuse. And that's what we call corruption! But we call these same scenes in the private sector, which are legal, good business practice. This is how to talk about corruption and fraud in the private sector and then in the public sector – see. I think there can be no corruption in the private sector at all, because by definition it follows a private interest. However, the public sector is committed to public interest and, of course, where there is an individual interest as a fraud of the system, we can pursue it. And it's a deviation, not a basic function.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I turn to Article 21 to put to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. What does the Government propose in this article? The following: “Public health institutions may agree with other healthcare providers on the provision of health services.” Translation: The government proposes the possibility of quietly privatising public health services. This is the outsourcing of public health programs financed by the institution to private medical companies. There was no possibility of that until now. The public service could have concluded a contract with a doctor or with another healthcare professional, it is said, at an entirely individual level, but could not have outsourced the whole activity to another company. It is particularly problematic here that this law does not prescribe any conditions for such outsourcing. So, pure discretion, let's just drink. For example, when issuing concessions – for comparison – it is necessary to obtain the consent of the institution and the ministry, concessions can only be issued exceptionally and so on. Well, here -- here's nothing! It's not just a circuit of the public system, it's a circuit of the concession regime! If you do not accept, fellow Members and colleagues of the Left Amendment, you will destroy everything that is good in this law, because all these good things will be determined and positive steps will be allowed to be taken through Article 21 and privatisation will end at the back door. What can help you to make more stringent arrangements for the award of concessions if the director of a health home or any hospitals can sign a contract with a private company to implement the health programme paid by the institution? After all, we can look at this from another entry point – why would a privateer wait for an invitation to tender, but if he can go and take care of the hospital director to give him part of his programme and the part of the funds that belong to this programme. How we remedy this with an amendment – that the contract can only be concluded with another public institution. So we support the possibility of cooperation between public health institutions so that they can support each other, help each other where there is a shortage of personnel, can someone step in and so on without letting go at the same time as privatisation. In any event, this must not be a permanent practice; it is permissible only if waiting periods are reduced in this account. But I'd like to hear the government's definition, given that she's somehow silent.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] _Other Organiser [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you. I applied again because the government didn't come forward. I don't think there's any security guards in this law against abuse, from outsourcing public health services to private companies. This is the 21st article we're in. I'd like to hear the government's argument why they think it's a good idea. In Levica, we have been giving you a hand for three years to step on the door to legalised corruption, and here, it appears, you are still stepping up and leaving things open to health directors to enter into contracts with other private operators. With this amendment, we are proposing a safeguard against unwarranted outsourcing, so that this contract can be concluded only if the hospital is unable to provide health care with its own means and with other public institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the whole debate on the proposal. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 15th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PATIENT RIGHTS LAW, UNDER THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister, will you introduce yourself? Don't you? Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Branko Zorman. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] He won't? Good. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at the 31st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled by 18 9. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u92	Am I the only one really talking today? Thank you for your word, chairman! We will support this marriage in Levica, and we will also support the amendments. Why? Because poor record keeping is actually a problem that artificially inflates waiting periods. I'm not saying there's no such thing as waiting periods. They exist, yes, they are a serious problem, but in particular in numbers and statistics, they are further potential for purely political – or even worse – lobbyist and political reasons. It is only right that these records be cleaned. Although I do not understand why the Ministry of Health has revised its position, it now claims that this law will not shorten the waiting period. All the logic is that you should shorten them. If they are on a waiting list, for example, there are 20 percent of people who cannot come to an operation for a xyz reason and if we have these records up to date, of course the other 80 percent will come first. I don't know why the Ministry here in this argument just dropped the pressure from the right. We also expect in Levica that this law will prevent species from skipping. We know what's going on now. The physicians of the carnivore in the public system accept the patient and then send him to the self-paying infirmary, where he can be treated faster than the other patients. And what happens here is purely clientelistic practices, if I don't even mention where people come to the treatment – I think, which deals with people on the principle that those who can pay will get treatment, those who don't, and those who peacefully can wait, which is, of course, completely wrong and rejected. It's over. Instead of working for the needs of health care, he works at the depth of people's wallets. And the one who is most ill should first come to order, not the one who is the richest. Such practices must be strictly prohibited, listed inspections carried out and uncompromising penalties imposed on skippers; those that will really hurt. The Minister is also required to enter in the waiting list policy a screen for cancer patients. The current Regulation provides in Article 3 that these patients must be treated within one month at the latest. Well, there's no security guard in the new rulebook. Here we expect the Ministry to complete it in some form, let's say patients with cancer should be treated within 14 days at the latest to receive the sign very quickly. I think that this expectation is just completely in place and I would like to hear the definition, in particular Madam Minister, of this proposal. Then there are other things we need to do to get people to treatment in time. This law regulates the administrative conditions for the reduction of waiting lines; we say that we have lists, that these lists will be better or will indeed be guided, because now it is total Texas and chaos and under every criticism. But if we really want to allow people to get free treatment within a normal period of time, there will be something else to do. In the first place, ensure sufficient healthcare, ensure fair and stable financing of health services. These two conditions need to be met, approached, taken measures, taken on the path towards this goal, if we want the waiting species to actually shrink. Because just a little bit smoother and a little fairer keeping a list of this, unfortunately, won't do. On this subject, it must be said that at the previous meeting we adopted the Law on Medical Services, which will transfer the planning of specializations from the Medical Chamber to the Ministry, which is already a good thing. In this role of prescribing specialisations, the Chamber has completely failed. One of the specialties she planned was not enough and that is why we have, for example, problems at this point in the UKC in Maribor. At the same time, the same measure laid down the obligation of the doctor to make at least four or six years after specialising in working in Slovenia, which is once again the right decision. We are not such a rich country that we can educate doctors for export, and it is only right that people return to the Slovenian society that brought them to medical bread. So much for the HR note. On the financial note, the Medical Services Act provided additional budgetary resources for the health system. When it is fully implemented – I think it is in three years – it will be €80 million per year. With this we have corrected the first Janša government's austerity measure, which has added to the burden of the Health Insurance Institute, by paying special fees in addition to the services. Well, that's now passed back on to the integral budget. We have also considered the Law on the Rehabilitation of Hospital Losses, which is the 136 million euro intervention funds. I repeat, it is not a matter of subsidizing losers, downers, if you will. Hospitals were not the ones that could have affected the prices of services or the salaries of doctors, regardless of whether they certainly did not operate optimally. But under the line it is clear that the losses, downs, gaps in the Slovenian public health system are due to the austerity measures of Janševa and Pahor's government, which reduced the hospital's revenues, then to Cerara's government, which did not cut through this situation. What's more, she went into a separate pay raise for the doctors and let herself force herself into a medical-insurance lobby. In the long run, you don't want to, you'll have to spend more public funds on health. To begin by abolishing supplementary health insurance, we will return €60 million to the system. This is probably not enough after all, so employers' contributions to health care will have to be raised. However, as far as investments financed from the budget are concerned, we do not need to make ourselves beautiful. If we're going to provide people with a good health system, we're going to have to take that money somewhere. Now, the right hand suggests not to cut into their pockets, but to introduce supplements and commercial insurance. In short, the problem of lack of resources is solved in such a way that we commercialise, privatize, and put the final cost on people. What this means in terms of accessibility and justice, I guess I don't have to explain it in particular. As much as they can pay you, as much as you can pay, you'll have as much health. Why this is wrong, I probably don't need to overemphasize it. Well, in Levica we propose the opposite; we reduce investment in the repressive apparatus, in particular in weapons systems. We reduce subsidies paid to multinationals such as Magne Steyr, Revoz, Riva and so on. This money, all these capital subsidies, must be diverted to the purchase of medical equipment and education for health workers. If we take it this way, we quickly find that money is too much, that our society is actually rich. Very rich. Only all these funds, all this economic growth gains, surpluses in the current balance of payments account are accumulated in a pair of privileged pockets and do not end up in social good; they are not reflected in salaries but do not reflect in better health care, but in better education. With such measures, this development vision does not quickly give us only resources to improve the public health system, but also funds for everything else, for development projects of type two. Look, the government is currently shooting 200 million euros to buy new patriots, but the second track is down to exactly 200 million, for which Hungary has joined, which will pay one little thing, that is to say 200 million, but will be entitled to half of all the profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. First of all, I'll give the floor to the Minister of Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Patient Rights was passed in Slovenia in 2008 and was the most important acquisition in the field of patient protection in our country since 14 basic and universal patient rights were first defined and defined. Over the years, however, it has proved that some of the solutions in this law are not the most premeditated or best defined. That is why you today have a novel or amendment and additions to this law. In particular, this amendment complements the scope of the exercise of the right to respect the patient's time, i.e. to waiting lists and waiting periods. For this reason, the first and most important objective of this novel is to ensure transparency and better management of waiting lists, which we believe is in the greatest interest both of patients and of all health care providers. At the same time, however, the amendment also regulates, in an appropriate systematic way, the integrated control of the provision of patient rights, as the current practice has also shown that unfortunately, without the envisaged legal sanction, unfortunately, I would say that compliance with all the provisions in all operators is not effective. I would add what is the most important novelty or substance of this law. The first is certainly that a 30-minute waiting period will be introduced at all three levels of health care. It is very important to say that we are introducing, in addition to the current three stages of urgency, an additional level of urgency, this is very fast, which will in particular facilitate the deployment of cancer patients. Why? Because today we have a level of urgency, this is within 24 hours, and the urgency rate is fast, where it is 3 months. Now we are introducing an additional rate very quickly and it will be 14 days. We also introduce clear hands on how to list patients and when to list patients, regulate electronic management of waiting list, regulation and submission of mailing lists. Of course, it has been added, which has not been in law so far, even a few obligations for all of us, for patients, that in case we cannot come to a review or an intervention, we should notify the institution and thereby allow someone who is behind us on the waiting list to be reviewed in this free period. It is also important to say that special court protection is introduced when it comes to serious bodily injury or the death of a patient, we continue to define the criminal authorities and we are also correcting the inappropriate solution so far with regard to the establishment of conditions for the appointment of representatives. Therefore, we are confident that the proposed amendment to the law will have positive direct effects and respect for the patient's time, as well as more appropriate and appropriate management of waiting lists. The Government, as the proposer, proposes that the National Assembly at the same meeting also carry out a second and third examination of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I know there's still a desire to discuss it. Please sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues, friends, a nice greeting for everyone! I am moved to argue with my fellow Member from the far left, but to deal with a man who has no idea what is public-private, who does not know what concessionaires are or what their tasks are, what these concessionaires are doing, how everyone is stealing and so on – absolutely without connection, because the debates of such Members show that they are the ideals of certain members of health services originating in Venezuela and other similar countries. I will personally touch on these articles, to which amendments have been tabled both by the coalition groups and by us in the SDS, and these are articles where the debate touches on issues such as waiting time and waiting lists. From one of the previous discussions, I think that there was an intervention law, the Minister praised how, if I understand correctly, only in 2017 was given to shorten the waiting period of €41 million. On the other hand, we have the opinion of the Ombudsman, who says that waiting periods are increasing. And perhaps all the wise desires and predictions of how this law may help us to resolve the waiting lines, even those we have dealt with earlier — if we read the law, there is so much laxness, respect, and respect that there is no way to talk about waiting types being reduced. But perhaps we can say that the purpose is good, and we will probably find out in six months again at some emergency session, when we will all find that laws do not follow what we say in Slovenia. In short, patients will still have problems despite well - intentioned reasons in this marriage. Well, if you allow me, I personally think that in Article 5, when we introduce a new level, this rate is very fast so that nothing changes in practice. Whoever goes at least rarely, I hope that citizens go as few times as possible to a doctor, comes into the waiting line, does not help him if he has written there very quickly or quickly. Nothing at all. Above all, on a secondary level, not to mention the situation in both emergency centres, where the situation is catastrophic, will not be any faster. For, as it is already written in the law, there will always be some unannounced, some extreme events that will prolong the patient’s condition, who will have a guide for very quickly. For the last time, I was talking about a personal or specific case. A colleague after a stroke for six months, he was told that in September you would go under for a quick treatment when he called in September, as shown by his call, they told him he was lucky because he was not reordered for June 2018, but only January 2018. So much for these desire to shorten waiting periods, and in the parliamentary groups we run into cases where stories unfortunately go in the opposite direction. The second thing, apart from what will be written on the leaflet, will in practice not change, is that the healthcare provider in the health network will ensure that the work is organised, so that waiting time is as short or as short as thirty minutes. Of course, it says then that the restriction does not apply if medical emergency is performed, it concludes the health service and so on. In short, why write in the law something to do only one thing – to irritate Slovenian patients who will not be interested, whether Janez Novak or Franci Novak, who was in front of him, what an emergency, but will say: “Look, the law, article 14a, waiting time as short as possible...”. Which is as stupid as possible. For someone who's been hit by a stroke, it's as short as five minutes, and for another 30 minutes, and he'll say it's nice, he'll at least have a little extra time with someone. In short, why write into the laws of a dictatorship that will bring nothing in practice will only anger citizens because the Minister has promised them that you will not wait for more than half an hour. As it is said, Janez Novak, when he goes to the doctor and waits half an hour, an hour, two hours, sometimes also at the primary level of three hours, four hours, and at the secondary level of the UKC, as an example from yesterday, a colleague called me – eight hours. And he had a travel pass. Eight hours! It's like we're playing a little bit of fun here in the National Assembly, and we're talking a little bit about how it's going to be super nice when these marriages come into force, but it's going to be totally different. He won't! There will be no more doctors, and there will be no more doctors. Colleagues from the United Left would like to just shut down the concession scheme. If we just look at the primary level and also at the secondary level, how many concessionaires we have, and if we want to get rid of these concessionaires, which you consider to be the worst, which exists in the health system, respected, such a law can, for the first time, be thrown into the trash; because not only will waiting species be extended, that waiting lists will be much longer, but we will have a breakdown of the health system. That is why I am really asking the Minister that when you do, and when you do not want to hear from me in the previous law, you should discuss concessionism, as well as at the primary level, where you must always be, or be, the blessing of the Minister, to listen to what you have written down — the needs of the people. Not everyone who wants to be concessionaires is something dangerous that disturbs the Slovenian health system that just wants to earn money. These are people who are experts who want to work and want to help keep waiting lines as short as possible, so that waiting lists will be as thin as possible. Why did I call back? Because I really have to say that after we have proposed a reduction in the bureaucratic nonsense that we need to have in the SDS Group, we are always facing some new nonsense that we are making up. An example, maybe a little out of health care, and then I'll go to a specific one. For the voter board's approval. There used to be enough names, surnames, addresses, an EMHO. No! No! Now we need a tax number, now we need a TRR. Any official, and if they gave him permission, they'd know everything about me. All of it! My EMHO, tax, and TR might be something else, maybe something I don't even know about myself. It's all at your disposal. See new article 15, Waiting list: “The following information is kept on the waiting list...” You won't believe it, 23 data! As if doctors, especially medical personnel who are in addition to doctors, are looking forward to doing all this again. Go, Your Honor, when to ask your nurses what they're doing. They write, write, write, write data that is available everywhere, and send it here and there, often in physical form. Last time I saw a doctor, my sister and I talked about how good it is to have optics, how the system is at least at the primary level, how the healthcare home put 12 000 euros into the e-order system, and it was in that doctor that said, "Here, the system fell again." Ladies and gentlemen, here's a question for you. Do you have data on how the information system is organised at the primary level, at the secondary level, at the tertiary level or how these data are linked? So that we do not speak again at any of the meetings of the Committee on Internal Affairs and Public Administration, how we have clouds where data is flapping left, right, up, down and there is no problem. And people at home don't all have fast Internet, unfortunately, health homes, but hospitals do deal with the information system. And here we write how everything will be great and fine, physically there will be no waiting for more than half an hour and e-ordering, e-receptions will solve everything. In practice, unfortunately, we are a respected minister, far from the ideal that you may be pursuing, but with such flat-rate laws, unfortunately, we are not saving anything. Again; what helps a patient if he writes half an hour if he knows that half an hour is often a science fiction, and what helps if he writes very quickly on the passenger if he waits eight hours in the emergency, immediately in the emergency center. Dear Minister, we used to say it starts from below, so I'll tell you, start from above. Finally, do what Minister Židan writes on Twitter, but does not support that – make order in UKC Ljubljana, and things will begin to resolve downhill faster. But if you write laws to protect your fellow workers in one way or another, then, as we say, such laws will not help us, especially those who visit doctors there. To conclude, Madam Secretary, the next time I wait more than half an hour at the health center, please give me a personal reply to the e-mail address, why the doctors can't follow this law, and you gave it to them as a mandatory task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vlasta Wait has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patient Rights is to ensure transparency, better management of waiting lists and waiting periods and the provision of patient rights and obligations. As has been said several times before, the amendment to the Law on Patient Rights does not directly reduce waiting periods, but rather regulates certain details. The first is transparency in the management of waiting lists, better supervision of the management of these lists and the responsibility of both operators and patients in the procurement process. Let me just point out some changes in the articles. Awaiting periods — the amendment of the law does not directly shorten waiting periods, but simply regulates them. The planned electronic management of waiting lists and the electronic way in which patients are listed and deleted is introduced. Some are already using an e-mail, e-procurement, it has been used for quite some time e-reception and this change is only a complement to their work. For others, this is a novelty that will optimise their work while at the same time allowing transparency of the whole system at national level. Allow me to list some examples of good practice both in health homes and in hospitals where information technology makes communication easier. One such example is the Sežana Health Home, which has actively involved patients in its treatment with the Master of Health programme. Similarly, hospitals in Izola and Jesenice have automated the reception and communication of patients with a variety, thus simplifying the control of the waiting line and eliminating unnecessary waiting. And I could count it. The third chapter is waiting time. The coordination and discussion of the general public of the proposal of the Law on Patient Rights has also led to the addition of articles relating to waiting time, which must not exceed 30 minutes at all three levels of the exercise of healthcare. This 30-minute legal limit is by no means an unrealistic measure, as some want to show, since it is now possible to achieve this limit, but only with good organisation of working time and with responsibility for patients. Let us be honest, too many times, and sometimes after unnecessary patients wait in front of the infirmary and are therefore dissatisfied. A few more words about a second opinion. One of the stakeholders' requests for opinions is also the regulation of the exercise of the right to a second opinion, which is currently not regulated in the health insurance rules and is not covered by compulsory health insurance as a separate health right in terms of financing. It is currently considered that the right to a second opinion is acquired by a patient as a self-payer at any time, wherever and whenever he wishes, and that a free second opinion is obtained only by the operator where the patient is treated in the context of treatment and is not charged to the health insurance office. We're changing this bill. In order to exercise the right of patients to professional and quality medical treatment, until the adoption of the new Health and Health Insurance Act in the new Law on Patient Rights, the latter is more precisely defined: the patient may choose a doctor to give him a second opinion at all three levels of health care. Your doctor may give a second opinion on the basis of existing medical documentation, after examination of your patient or following further examinations. The amendment introduces some minor changes and additions that have proved meaningful, such as a special precautionary measure, conditions for the appointment of a patient representative, duration, the patient's pre-exposure, prioritise the courts when a serious injury occurs, disability or the death of a patient. The new law will have positive effects on our health system and therefore we think it is right to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. Greetings from the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have heard a lot about this Law on Patient Rights that we are considering today. I would stop here first where my colleague on my left ended up, namely that the urgency rates are of an administrative category which have no impact on whether someone is waiting longer or less. I'm sure we've been in a situation before, probably all of us, when I was in a situation like this when I felt very much on my own, what does it mean if this personal doctor surrounded the urgency rate quickly, regularly, or urgently. I already tasted all three of them on my own and talking about it being some kind of larifari, I don't think it's delicious. I believe that this new stage of urgency will also play out very quickly because it will be suitable for those who have become sicker. We have heard a lot about the other aims of this law today. I would have stopped, especially in the management of waiting lists. It is true that when it was checked in hospitals, when the Ministry of Health checked the material and statistical status and how these waiting lists arise, there are also procedures for many administrative abnormalities to be identified in these waiting lists. It has been found that in this set of data there are also many who do not want to see another operator who wants a particular service provider and are therefore willing to wait for more time on these waiting lists, including those who are physically incapacitated and are still on this waiting list. Of course, it is necessary to clean up such things in order to separate these categories. I am also aware that this will not reduce waiting types, but all of us who are potential patients, and those who are already patients, rights and the public, have the right to have real data on this, one that corresponds to the actual situation. However, electronic governance and the way in which these waiting lists are prescribed here will, in my opinion, also significantly prevent fraud or corruption, which we recall, which has occurred in connection with the gaps in the management of waiting lists. I would also touch on the importance of patients now having access to a second opinion at all three levels, which is said to be at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. It is also very important that that expert, that doctor who deals with a second opinion, should not only identify these data and those tests that the patient brings or is provided with by a treating doctor, but also be able to decide on his own investigations. I would point out once again that this law is one piece of the whole mosaic of changes in the health system, although some want to throw it in a bag of irrelevant, unnecessary, sand in the eyes. Of course, the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance will also be important, as we have said here many times in this Chamber, and it will also apply to this law, which we are now talking about. For such insurance, as it is now, is almost impossible. For supplementary health insurance we all pay the same, the one with 15,000 euros net wages and the one with 500 euros pension. This must certainly be rearranged, so that it will be fairer and based on solidarity, which is yet to be advocated by the Modern Centre Party, but certainly not by the fact that it is aimed at ensuring that insurance companies compete with each other, which will stand, which will generate more profits from this title, is what the concept of commercialisation says, but what appears from the discussions and debates to defend the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u102	Today, the SMC’s views on this law on patient rights are interesting, for at first reading all of us were convinced that this would shorten waiting periods, and today we are all convinced that this law will not shorten waiting periods. And now, for God's sake, I don't know who to trust anymore, and the minister herself says that this law will shorten the waiting hours. So last time we listened, I am very sorry, but today we heard from two of your colleagues that "this law will definitely not shorten the waiting years". Now this conversion is a little bit like that, but well, you can change your mind, no problem. The question is, of course, in these stages of urgency, which you have already added more, something that will now be taken into account by the new law urgently, very quickly, quickly, regularly, as necessary. I'll tell you again my personal case and the Ministry of Health's response, which told me to report to the doctor who offered me a quick six-month waiting period. The Ministry of Law requires respect for the patient's time, requires quality doctor work, and as a patient, the Ministry of Health directs me to a contractor who offers me a six-month waiting period for fast, which means three months. This is completely unserious by the Ministry. And then, if you do, it's rude of Mrs. Godec, because she won't turn herself in. No, because it says to me, the patient's rights and so on and so forth, and I am exercising my rights under the current law, and under the new law, because, of course, under the new law, the patient's rights will be respected. And that is why I am interested in how the ministry requires something from citizens, of course it is also from a doctor, but at the same time it only travels people to waiting periods. Now let the Ministry decide what is going on with this law or with these patients' rights. Then it is interesting to read what is before the law, the explanation of the law, which says about proposals of the professional and foreign public, interested in the public. The proposals were mostly taken into account. What suggestions did you take into account in this law? Who did you take them from? Since, in the next indent, the essential opinions, proposals and comments which have not been taken into account and the explanation for non-compliance are half-sided. What suggestions did you follow, and you didn't write? How should we now know in the National Assembly what suggestions the professional public has made, the general public in these public debates, or in the elaboration of the law? Don't say anything. Tell me what you didn't pay attention to. Well, other anomalies inside of what you wrote in front of you wouldn't talk about, even if you didn't agree, we've said that many times before, but with the new very quick directions of urgency, you've already put it into law. We have put our amendment to Article 7 or to the amended new Article 15b, where we ask that it be added or that you vote on paragraphs seven, eight and nine. This is an amendment which allows health care providers involved in the public health service network to communicate statistics monthly to NIJS, in order to report the number of people waiting at the level of urgency referred to in Articles 2, 3 and 4, where it specifies these levels of urgency which I will not find immediately. This amendment also gives the legal basis for the NIJ to implement this. Since we believe that the new law abolishes public scrutiny of all these factors, so that there will no longer be a possibility to look at the number of people waiting at the level of urgency, the number of people waiting for the longest period of waiting after the stage of urgency referred to in Article 14, paragraph 14b, it will no longer be possible to look at the expected waiting period at the level of urgency and the time of waiting after the stage of urgency. The amendment goes in this direction to allow for the electronic exchange of data between operators, the Ministry, the NICP and the ZZS, so that this public view is maintained. It is not the same as an insight if you as a patient demand it from a healthcare provider, but that it will also be published on the NIJS websites, as it has been so far, regardless of e-procurement and e-procurement. And to add a second and third paragraphs to the 27th, which also allow for some transitional time to coordinate these records. Several of us have pointed out that the Article 17 you are now amending no longer states that the NIJ publishes this information publicly, and therefore this amendment to Article 15b. I hope that, even in the coalition, you agree that these data are still public, that people are familiar with NIJZ statistics as before or since 2011, because since the adoption of this law, if these amendments are not adopted, this statistics will in fact be abolished and will no longer be reviewed as they can be today. This, of course, may be the purpose of the ministry, that we will no longer be able to use this statistics in the National Assembly, which has now been shown through “Time” at NIJS. Finally, we agree with the coalition that this law will not shorten waiting times, that of course it is also questionable – well, here we do not agree – the question is this e-procurement, e-procurement. In those days of interpolation, and before that, well, since the same law, I think that you have also received a lot of letters, letters, emails or texts from citizens explaining how they do not respect the patient's right to resolve these patients' rights very slowly because they simply cannot meet, administrative obstacles are. However, these administrative obstacles arise from the Ministry because administrative support is not well enough or sufficiently up-to-date for this Commission. I don't think we're going to solve much with this law, but we're going to end the public review of the waiting periods. This is definitely, if so adopted, without the proposal of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u104	I'll start at the back, no, I'll start at the front. Mr Lisec has actually communicated two messages in his debate. For the first time, indeed, he will later correct me if he wants this system to not work for us and that the law is really a list of wishes, which in fact, when implementation takes place, will not work. Then he describes the case of a gentleman of acquaintance, anyone who had a problem with a stroke or probably thought he had a heart condition or had a heart problem later, in short, with a companion, he came to the examination. Although it is difficult to tell why it is actually going, according to the general assessment, but if we can conclude that we do not need a doctor-general, I suppose he has come to the specialist. If not in the secondary, at least in the tertiary, but probably in the secondary, probably in the E.R., I don't know where. I must say that there is an eternal problem with all our citizens, all those who have been to the ER for at least once, that they know very little about the emergency. All they know is that the E.R. is something that needs to happen quickly and that it's something for emergencies. In fact, there are many different services and services at the ER, from the primary level to the secondary level, you can even be admitted to the hospital by experts at the tertiary level and so on. The problem is that patients don't separate, they don't know if they've come to the intern, whether they've come to the surgeon, or whether they've come to the general doctor. But the fact is, he came to the E.R., and that's a lot of times when they ask the patient to come with a blue light, because there's something urgent, there's an E.R., they bring him in, and then there's this patient in the E.R. waiting for eight, ten hours, and they wonder why he got there with the blue light, but if he has to wait there now. It is simply a matter of certain processes that are very important and necessary to clarify them so that we do not teach false religion. It's important to know that the only patient or patient we're talking about isn't the only one who came to the E.R. There are probably other patients who are also being treated at the same time and cannot be reviewed five at once unless it is a matter of resuscitation or maintenance of life functions. And secondly, certain diagnostics have to be done when the patient gets there. For this diagnosis, you have to wait, because it simply cannot and cannot happen in one hour, not to talk about laboratory tests, imaging and everything else. And the third, which is even more important, is often part of the diagnostics of observation. Sometimes the patient was hospitalized and observed for 24 hours in the hospital room, many times in this room today, and it's easier to keep an eye on the patient in the E.R. I personally know, in my case, that your father was observed in the observation room, so you have a room in the emergency room called the observation rooms. There certain things simply need to develop at some stage. There's no other way. But it's true that the patient doesn't care. Never. And he's not qualified to evaluate it either. All he knows is he had to wait somewhere. And unfortunately, we still have too many cases in the E.R. when patients actually get there at least in the '30s, or I'll say very simplistic, in one third after unnecessary, either because they don't want to go to their general doctor because they know they have to wait there and they feel more elegant to go to the E.R. And now that the emergency centers are up-to-date, new ones, it's even easier and better to wait there than at some health center where you've been seeing your personal doctor for 20 years, and he knows you and knows you, and he knows you, at least 50% of what you're gonna want from him. Some simply come to the emergency room because they themselves estimate that it is so urgent and right, but in reality it turns out later, fortunately that this visit to the emergency room was not necessary at all and that a doctor at the primary level could resolve it. In short, it is a series of questions or things that, of course, are partly governed by this law. Why and how? It regulates them mainly in the part where, in fact, it carries some kind of waiting line at least in terms of liability to the patient himself. You know well that many times patients themselves, when ordered, move or simply do not come and later call to go into the procedure again and then are informed that they were waiting for them, but they are still in the waiting line. Well, this course is, of course, appropriate to this responsibility now a little differently and it is possible to remove the patient from the waiting line or to move him down. Another thing that seems important to me. is mainly that we have moved the offence from the rule of law to the law. Which, of course, means that the Inspector's power will also be to review not only waiting types but, above all, waiting books. You know well that in the hospital, of course, all of their waiting books, which we cannot compare with the electronic waiting types that we have and go through ordering ePaths, because there is still enough room in waiting books for all those interventions that can come urgently or from the point of view of the hospital activities they perform so that they can be carried out by a specialist. Where has this manipulation been? The manipulation was mainly that today, through these waiting books, a number of health workers could change without, of course, anyone knowing what was actually going on in this waiting line, and you know that. It is true, however, that today the inspector cannot even review it on the basis of existing legislation. Therefore, waiting books, or the validity or archiving of these waiting books, have changed from six months to three years, which, of course, also means easier surveillance of inspectors and, last but not least, sanctioning from the point of view of the administrative procedure, so that certain sanctions can in fact be enforced for those who do so or where this irregularity is established. But there is something else — patients need to be made aware, and patients need to become more and more aware of what their rights are. Last but not least, so that these rights can also be exercised. But if you don't know the rights, then you can't enforce them. And this ignorance has led many times to fight two interests. One of the interests of the patient is that you are greeted or that you seek and receive first aid, and another is that you exercise your rights. And where are these two rights fighting? When a patient complains about a doctor, the patient is afraid that he will be sanctioned in some way and will be treated worse by the same doctor. But I think and I'm sure it's primarily the mission and the function of doctors to help people. Surely, however, extremes and excesses and these doctors must always have a stick on the other side that warns them not to interfere with the field of illicit. That is why this law seems very important to me that certain things be settled. However, I agree with Mr Lisce and I hope that we will prove that this is not what Mr Lisec said. Marriage cannot be a list of wishes, so the law is always implemented. However, if the law is toothless and has no sanctions, of course it has no effect. It is therefore necessary to involve several stakeholders in the implementation of this law, not only the Ministry, but also health care providers and, finally, users, in this case, patients. And that seems to me to be the most effective and protective. The patient may complain directly, directly, if he cannot do so, but also has the Ombudsman's rights, the patient's rights. And this is an instrument by which a patient can actually obtain his or her rights paid through a health register. I wouldn't be so blacksighted, because this law brings another thing that's very good, this is the introduction of a so-called safeguard measure. You are well aware that healthcare professionals have also met patients who, according to the household report, were nervous or could not be calmed and could in certain cases even be dangerous to healthcare professionals. Well, now we have this very clearly defined and in this way we also care that the health process can go smoothly. It is a fact, however, that if there was a dilemma and reflection as to how the two SMC Members say that the law will not affect the waiting species, it is certainly not, but indirectly, very much. And that's the difference you need to talk about. Not only through this law, but also through this law and other laws that we are now considering and adopting. The waiting lines aren't just about getting in line and saying, but now I'm gonna cut the waiting lines. It should be borne in mind that it is necessary to have an organisation, money, respect for the rules of the game and, finally, a normative matter so regulated that you can also correct it. Marriage isn't something you put like ten of God's commandments in stone and then it stands. In particular, the law is a document and an act which must be implemented and, where appropriate, where irregularities are detected, corrected and amended immediately. It's a matter of living matter and patients and the health system are certainly one of the living things in our system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Just something for a preliminary execution. I think it is of particular interest today, and we want any law to be incorporated into the National Assembly, which would benefit and add value. I cannot agree with Ambassador Jani. In his debate, it felt like the patients were guilty. Patients are guilty of waiting in waiting lines because they cannot find the right help. The patients are guilty because they don't know which doctor they're going to. The patients are guilty because they can't complain. Respectful ones who have ever sought urgent help may find it difficult to deal with where you will seek justice and how you will complain. The only thing you want to know is when you're going to be on your turn, and you're going to be on your turn as soon as possible, because you won't be on your turn, it won't affect your life in the future or even your life itself. The case, already told by colleague Lisec – here too, I find it very irresponsible for a Member to speak, “thinks he was hit by a stroke”. Look, people tell their personal stories. Personal stories are very difficult to share, but they are shared in order for something to change in the system to be taught to all of us here that we are adopting legislation, and especially to those who are responsible for adopting effective legislation. I'll tell you a few cases. Urgenca in Ljubljana, three hours, three hours to be treated. It's a reality. Look, this isn't some kind of crowd right now. Worse! A lot of people wait three hours, they're patients who come in and they need an even faster help. But do you think it's human and acceptable? Do we need any law in this country so that patients do not lie down in the halls? I found out in case they had to put the patient in the bathroom because they didn't have anywhere to put him. Don't turn your eyes. Look, these are the cases, this is what we've got! And that's why he's not a patient and neither is a doctor! Not even medical personnel! It's the system. It's only the system's fault. The last time there was an interpolation, I even saw some tweets that I don't know how much they praised, how very effective e-passengers are. Once again, the case of e-passengers – people are getting back together and trying to log in through this e-passenger system. It happened in July. The E-system replied that, in view of its review of the possibilities it has, it is possible to come to UKC Ljubljana on a series of occasions sometime in October. The patient is satisfied with this, if you, I'll wait two months, I don't think that's how my thing is. He's waiting and in late August he gets a home shipment and in this shipment he gets the following notification: Your turn will be in April next year. Who's fucking around here now? Who's making a fool out here now? Tell me. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please don't interrupt me. Don't interrupt me! [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u107	I ask you to behave as you should.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u108	Who here is a worker, given that it was first said that it could be possible and that it would be scheduled within two months, and then practically after one year almost, given that the process was carried out at the end of June, in early July? Look, it just says in itself that something's wrong. And that we just have to solve things from where we see them, from the problems up there, not from some idea down there, if things don't work. It was also said that there are no waiting periods in primary health care. That's not true! Today people call their own personal doctor and order them in a week. Now, of course, I'm aware that the doctor has a full office, that he can't burn down, that he can't do more than work, but imagine there's something wrong with this patient when he gets here in a week. The waiting days are already on this level. Just to conclude, I'd like to read and ask for the time that you, President, have taken from me. Now the nurse's here. Listen to the next one. She sent a message to Tomaž Lisco based on his discussion. We only deal with waiting lists, we can't even look at the patient anymore, and we're just waiting for when one of them will literally break me a little through the window, so they're irritated. How can we enter someone's waiting list under a fast or very fast, if the waiting list below is filled in regularly by April 2018? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And it's closing. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, the president doesn't take the time to speak, but he's just asking you to speak better. It was the only breakup I had. And I didn't interrupt you, but I was just [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, anyone else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, I'm sure the Minister will listen to us, dear colleagues and colleagues. I was there when we adopted, of course, in 2008, for the first time, a new law on patient rights. And it is perfectly normal that after a decade this law should be amended, but of course in such a way that the effects of changes in the law will truly be felt by patients, patients. Someone used to say that patients need to be alerted and so on. You know, when you're sick, you only deal with one thing, how to get better, and how to get better as soon as possible, and not to become aware of something, to educate what I need to know, and so on. All of this sucks, so forgive the rhetoric. And before that, I was criticised by the SMC Member to quote Prof. Dr. Igor Gregorič and here I present his ideas two years ago. This Member was mistaken for 400% because I read Professor Gregorič's opinion of March. I don't think it's been two years since March. If anyone has that orientation, time, it's not my fault either. However, in New Slovenia or, if you want, in the right block of the opposition, we perform the last screams and shouts of the need to privatise the health system, see, this is abuse. You have never heard and will never hear from a New Slovenia Member or Member of Parliament that the health system needs to be privatised. The new Ljubljana Bank is because there is another hole waiting for you. In the public health system, which is what we are saying, the potentials of private people should be included. Public. We are for the public and only public health system, which, of course, means that the country has strict control over this health system. Of course, those who don't want to hear it just don't hear it and then get a lot of ideas about how to abuse our solutions. And I am sorry, I regret that here, by this Member of the SMC, in the right block of the opposition or in general, we are experiencing criticism rather than presenting our solutions. We have written solutions to our health system on paper in line with the OECD recommendations, in line with the recommendations we have been receiving from Brussels from the European Commission for several years. We gave this to the Minister and asked, Madam Minister, to see if there is anything useful for you in your work or not. And the secretary put us in the waiting line. We were in the waiting line for a year. We have not died, we are alive, we have improved this system yet, precisely because we listen to experts, domestic and foreign, and our Slovenians working abroad to make the best system in the world here for Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia, for citizens and citizens of this country. But we are so brutally rejected. Everything you say in New Slovenia is wrong. We believe it isn't. One day we will have a greater political influence and we will also realize these ideas, I assure you. In order to avoid the need for 20,000 people, these are now official data, which we say in the opposition must not articulate again, so that 20,000 people will not have to wait more than a waiting period for the first review. And besides, the trend is bad. I'd be quiet about this data if those numbers were to be reduced, but not, unfortunately. Unfortunately, this figure grew in August according to July by 3,000 220 patients. In July, it increased by 2 000 215 patients in terms of June and June by 903 in terms of May and so on and so on. I know that we are hard on the opposition when we come out with numbers – even though people and patients are not numbers – but the numbers tell us how the system works. Once again, as I said today, not everything is bad in our health system. But we have potential, we have people, we have assets, we have buildings and we have equipment. And with all these potentials, our health system could be better and our society could be healthier. My heart is racing when the state sends out a doctor, perhaps even a specialist and then one for various reasons, perhaps at least once from financial, simply leaves this country and goes somewhere else where it can develop, where there are good relations within the collective and so on. Colleagues and colleagues in the government or coalition, not knowing about public health systems tomorrow will not be a good excuse for the wrong political moves. This has also been said very correctly by colleagues from the SMC, as anyone who thinks little, knows that you simply take administrative action to write on the guide that it is urgent, very urgent or whatever, that it simply does not shorten waiting periods. That in the organisation itself, fundamental changes should be made in the system itself, root of movements. And I don't know why this government and coalition simply rejects the well-intentioned recommendations we receive from the European Commission if you can't listen to the opposition's recommendations. I don't know why I'm dragging you into this room of the Secretary-General of the OECD, Angela Gurrio, who has kindly told us, because we are members of the OECD, who has kindly told us what we need to do in Slovenia to make it better. I could talk about our demographic problems for a long time now. We are the fastest growing society in Europe. Does that mean anything to anyone? You should. Politics should have answers to that. The whole of Europe has demographic problems. Society is getting older, Europe is getting older, and unfortunately, Slovenia is a recorder. It's not this government's fault, God forbid anyone would understand it like that, but this government is here to rule this country. And when he detects a problem, he has to solve it effectively. We simply miss solutions in New Slovenia that would actually increase the effectiveness of our health system. Among other things, this means that they give more rights to patients or that I am more specific, these solutions should shorten the long, record-long waiting lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss Article 6? No, no, no. I thank and conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a bill for a redundancies award within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Anton Persak, Minister for Culture. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u112	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The current law, which was passed in 1991, has largely taken up the regime that has been in force since 1982. This information is important because, of course, according to the current situation in almost every article or at least to everyone else, it referred to bodies that are long gone, from the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Executive Council, and so on, and of course it was based on the current cultural or artistic situation, which means that there was not a whole range of already widespread and pulsating types of art at that time. In view of this, the Committee of the National Council for Culture, when amendments to the Statute of the Prešeren Fund were proposed at the beginning of the year, which tried to respond to some of the complications arising from the operation of the Fund or in relation to awards in recent years, proposed certain amendments, the Committee refused to address these changes and imposed on the Ministry of Culture to prepare amendments or a new Law on Prešeren. The Ministry carried out this task and proposed a law. The aim of this law is, of course, to preserve the award of the highest awards in the field of creativity or art and thus to support and promote the excellence of individuals who make a particularly large and important contribution to the richness and visibility of Slovenian culture. At the same time, of course, it is also a sign of recognition for the individual achieving this excellence. The law follows the principles, as I say, of promoting creativity and is also in the function of recognizing the importance of this activity for the whole, comprehensive life of the national community. The law sets out the highest awards in the field of creativity or art, which are awarded for achievements in all fields of art. It therefore determines the type of prizes, says the two Prešeren prizes and awards of the Prešeren Fund for individual achievements in the last three years. Awards can be awarded to individuals, except to a group of creators, when it comes to such types of art, that group work is also common. It shall then grant the right to award prizes or to decide on that decision to the Governing Board of the Prešeren Fund, which shall make a selection on the basis of a public call for the award of prizes and proposals by the expert commissions. There is also a change, so far the number of commissions has been limited to four. It is precisely because of what I mentioned at the outset that, of course, there are today new types of art, which have already become very pervasive in certain cases, that a reasonable number of these committees are to be increased so that six are now envisaged. In view of the fact that in the past, the scope of the work of the individual expert commission and also the diversity of the types of art they have dealt with have greatly increased, which has led to some logic, if I say so, to inertia, of these newer species somehow not being in an equal position. The Management Board shall consist of 15 members appointed by the National Assembly. One of the issues that was also very topical in the Committee's debate is the question of the so-called proportional treatment of representatives of different sexes, in this regard an amendment has been tabled once again, which, while fully respecting this principle, could also cause certain problems for a year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Antonio Kovacič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Culture shall meet at its 22nd regular session. 9. 2017 discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Prešeren Prize submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law was examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. Her representative said that the amendments of the coalition groups followed their opinion and she had some comments on some articles of the bill. It noted the insufficient general title of the bill, in view of the manner in which the circumstances of the posthumous award of Prešeren Prizes were determined, the irregularity of the fundamental issues of the establishment and functioning of the functions of the organisational body and the funding of the fund to the indefinite amount of the cash prizes of the Prešeren Fund Prize winner and the necessary arrangements for the work of the expert commissions and the completion of the ongoing proposed procedures. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. The amendments were tabled by the SMS, Desus, SD and the Levica Group of Members. Mr Anton Peršak, Minister for Culture, presented the draft law in the introduction. The debate followed, in particular, on the title of the bill, the post-mortem award of awards, gender equality at the Prešeren Awards and the nominations of expert commissions. At the address provided, some have warned that it should be amended in such a way as to be more general. In addition to Prešeren’s prize, they felt that the law would regulate other prizes of the Prešeren Fund. There was also some talk about gender equality in the awarding of prizes. In this respect, the Committee member considered that statistics show that there are many more men than women among the recipients of the latter, not reflecting differences in quality or quantity of cultural production, but in patriarchal social patterns. However, an amendment to Article 8 of the novel was proposed by the coalition groups to ensure that the principle of sexual balance is ensured at the level of the nominations of the expert commissions. Some other opinions from the members and members of the Committee were presented below. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups, but did not adopt the amendment of the Left Group. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it has drafted and adopted the amendment of the Committee to Article 8. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u115	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Art and culture are important factors in building values, standards, beliefs. Through art, man joins the social world and learns to take over and perform the roles that characterize the society in which he works and belongs. Prešeren prizes and prizes of the Prešeren Fund are the highest recognitions of the Republic of Slovenia for achievements in the field of art in our country. And it is right that the law that defines the award of these awards is in line with the time in which we live. The law currently in force regulating the award of Prešeren’s prize and Prešeren’s prizes has not been thoroughly renovated for 20 years, and the outdated terminology contained further confirms this. We discussed the law ahead of us on the work body for quite some time. The proposaler's desire is to address the difficulties that have arisen in the functioning of the Management Board and its expert committees, and these have often overshadowed the award of awards at our cultural holiday. The proposal thus lays down the organisation, functioning and competence of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund and the role of the expert committees in selecting the recipients of the prizes from the proposals which arrive on the Management Board after the invitation to tender has been issued. The proposal, however, touches on another very important topic: gender-equitable representation in the awarding of prizes. The problem of unequal treatment of women is multilayered and in many areas we have already taken the first steps to reduce gender-based discrimination. We are not aware, however, that women are also discriminated against in the field of culture, so I am pleased that the proposal for a law on award-winning and award-winning provides for the principle of sexual balance already at the level of the nominations of professional commissions, as this also gives artists an important signal that we will not allow unequal treatment of women at any level. We will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u117	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u118	Honorable President, Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Prešern Prize Act has not been amended or supplemented since its publication in 1991. There are several reasons, both formal and substantive, for the adoption of the new law. In the field of art, much has changed since then, new forms of art have emerged and some of the existing art have evolved. Thus, certain expert committees of the Governing Board dealing with the nomination proposals have had an increasing scope of the areas they had to cover. As a result, it was evident in the cultural public that certain artistic types were sometimes not treated equally. We therefore have before us a solution which, with the proposal for a new law, extends the number of expert commissions from the current four to a maximum of six. The bill also brings some other important and necessary news, including the fact that the Board of Directors will only take decisions on awardees on the basis of nominations by expert commissions. Thus, we will avoid peripetions in the past, when the board of directors passed through the expert committee, awarded the prize and in this way disqualified the professional work of the Commission, whose members, I stress, even chose. In this way, we also avoid unnecessary public debates that awards are influenced by ruling policies. The novelty also brings news that the selection of the winner of the Overlying Fund will extend the period in which the top achievements are counted from two years to three years, while the composition of the committees will also take into account the aspect of the sexual balance of the members. At the modern centre, we think that the debate on sexual balance at all levels of society is extremely important, and in the end, the gender balance of Members and Members of the National Assembly has also made tangible progress due to the composition of the SMC Group of Members, so we are pleased that the Committee on Culture has endorsed a coalition proposal that ensures the principle of sexual balance already at the level of the nominations of expert commissions, which has been an exception to the rule so far. We believe that the prizes in this sense did not in any way reflect the actual state of culture, because we have many top artists in all areas. In this way, it is possible for the Governing Board to choose between sexually balanced proposals, which must be assessed autonomously, on the basis of the artistic surplus and not the sexual identity of an individual artist, when further considered. For all of this we will also confirm the renewed Government Act on Prešern Prizes in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u119	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u120	Good-bye! Finally, the proposal for the Prešerno Prize Act, prepared by the Government or the Ministry of Culture, was brought to the table of Members and Members. In addition, let me remind you that my personal invitation to the bill came to my attention because I am at a meeting that has been held since 8. 3. 2016, already a year and a half ago, warned of obsolete legislation since 1991, where concepts and institutions that no longer exist are still applicable. Of course, there are key substantive reasons, since much has changed since then. Despite the fact that a long marriage, or a marriage of only sixteen members, has been taken by the ministry for a year and a half, we have before us a proposal for a law that is quite inconvenient and also flawed. In fact, the Minister's self-sufficient attitude on the Home Committee has revealed everything, not even the slightest hearing, to the Members' proposals, which we have pointed out to the shortcomings which would be worth listening to. More than significant is the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service has had comments on as much as half of the proposed articles, which, as I have already said, are only sixteen. The least we can read is that in some ways this law has gone quite superficial. The Prešern prizes and prizes of the Prešeren Fund are the highest forms of awards in the field of creation and art. It is therefore unreasonable that in the constructive debate held on the committee responsible, the Minister did not wish to hear proposals to take account of both types of awards on behalf of the law. This would avoid the less valuable position of the Prešeren Fund prizes, which are thus suppressed in the background. The legislative and legal service itself expressed doubts as to the appropriateness of the title of the law. It follows from the content itself that the Minister or Coalition has focused primarily on the human resources supremacy also in the Prešern Awards, where we believe that a professional aspect should apply exclusively. For the law should pursue one single goal, that is to promote high-quality creativity in the field of art, without political connotation. Under this law, the Minister, respected, will issue a public call, which means that the public concerned will make proposals to the board of directors, which is in some way the highest authority. But what happens next? The Government will not be bound by the proposals that will come on the basis of a public call when drawing up a proposal for the Management Board. In fact, this means that the government does not need to take into account proposals, in fact not one single proposal that will come from the public concerned as well as from the professional public and, of course, the board of directors will organise or set up on the basis of its own image. In view of the fact that in the past there have been complications in the appointment of Prešern's prize winners, it is somehow irresponsible to propose such a solution. Above all, he rightly raises the question: Will Prešeren's prizes and prizes of Prešeren's fund be rewarded for the extraordinary achievements or political sympathies of the ruling coalition? Such solutions are, in our view, bad, as they result in the grading of awards awarded, which will not be based on extraordinary achievements in the field of creativity, in the field of art, but, above all, on a form of political gratitude. This also means that we will see more and more individuals among the winners of Svetlana Makarovič, who, by spreading the worst form of hate speech, separate the nation and do not unite, thus presenting no added value to the highest forms of prizes that this country has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u121	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, nice to meet you. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to read the position of the Desus Group on the draft law on the Prešern Prize. We are too often aware of the importance of our society and Slovenian history as culture. It is the culture and Slovenian language that the Slovenians, as a nation, have connected and preserved it to this day. We even have a day of culture for a national holiday, so we must not forget all those individuals who enrich the Slovenian cultural treasure. We have before us a proposal for a novel of the Law on the Prešeren Prize. Let us remind you that Prešeren's awards and prizes of the Prešeren Fund are the highest recognition in the Republic of Slovenia for achievements in the field of art. The first is given to artists who have consistently enriched Slovenian culture with high-quality artistic achievements or life opus, while the Prešeren Foundation awards to artists for the important artistic achievements that have been presented to the public in the last two years prior to the award. The current law has been in force since 1991, and culture has, of course, been changing and developing all the time, and so this law is called after changes. Regardless of merely formal corrections, the law in force must now be amended in substance, and the number of professional commissions should be expanded due to the spread of art. Only in this way will all areas of art be treated equally. In particular, it is worth noting that the members of the expert committees, which are expected to be more under this law, are performing their duties honorably, which is a great exception in our political space. One important addition to the law also brings equal representation of the sexes between the proposals of the rewarders. Slovenian history has not only been written by men, nor in the 21st century can we ignore women's work and become increasingly known and recognized. That is why, of course, we are in favour of the option proposed in the law to keep this quota, if I may say so, at the level of the Commission's proposal. We will, of course, support the proposal for a new law in the Desus Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u123	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Maria Bachič for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Prešeren's prize and prizes of the Prešeren Fund are the highest recognitions of the Republic of Slovenia for achievements in the field of art. The award-winning process and the promotion of their top achievements at the central celebration is defined by the 1991 law. Its terminology obsolescence and elasticity of individual provisions, which in the past have built up some complications, are the reason for the proposed updated text. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new law on the Prešeren Prize. We believe that it makes it possible to strengthen the prestigious institute while at the same time clearing up the relationship between the roles of the expert commissions and the board of directors in the awarding process. But all relations and misunderstandings, which have not been an exception in the past, cannot be overturned by law. Therefore, we expect each individual, who is in any way linked to the implementation of the procedure and the award, to first protect the integrity of the institution and to put prizes and rewards at the forefront, but not to take care of his media promotion and the creation of scandals. The discussion focused on another issue for the Social Democrats, which is not only in the context of the Prešeren Prize, but also in the broader context of women. As we have heard, in the last 15 years, only 18% of the recipients have received the highest prizes in art. Notwithstanding this fact, we believe that the main reason for receiving the prize must remain the achievement, but the obvious transparency of the outstanding results of women in art shows that gender plays a crucial role in deciding on the winners, and we believe that further mechanisms should be strengthened to promote women's achievements in this area. The full balance of the composition of the Management Board and the gender balance of the nominations submitted to the Governing Board are steps in this direction. But it is not only the cultural world of the very male world, as was the rightful observation at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. We Social Democrats have reviewed the list of recipients of the highest prizes in science and sport. The percentage of awards among all award winners is almost exactly the same in both science and sport as in the cultural system. In the last 15 years, their share does not exceed 20%, and we therefore expect the Government to increase its share in future activities to promote women's achievements in science and sport. As it is said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the draft Law on the Prešeren Prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u125	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! We Christian Democrats wrote in our basic programme: "Slovenian culture means the treasure of national creation over the centuries, so we are proud of it and want to preserve it, while at the same time promoting the creativity and cultural participation of modern creators. For the present and future of a nation whose identity is not based either on historical emphasis on state-building or on the extraordinary economic or military power of its elite, culture is indispensable. Without Slovenian culture there would be neither Slovenian state nor Slovenian politics. Prešeren prizes and prizes of the Prešeren Fund are the highest recognitions of the Republic of Slovenia for the achievements in art awarded by the Prešeren Fund. According to the proponents, Prešeren's prize is intended for the creators who, with their superior artistic achievements or with their life opus, have permanently enriched the Slovenian cultural treasure. However, the Prešeren Fund award is awarded to artists for important artistic achievements, which have been presented to the public in the last two years before the award and which constitute an enrichment of the Slovenian cultural treasure. As is understood by the proposer, the Ministry of Culture, the amendments to the Law on Prešeren are due to disagreements in the functioning of the Management Board with the expert commissions and the director of the celebration in recent years. Such and similar events are truly unacceptable and must be prevented. We wonder whether this law of disagreement and such an unloving event will really prevent us. The proposed text of the third paragraph of Article 8 of the Law does not appear to us to be the best. Apparently, it was under the impression of the controversy when the Prešeren Fund's board of directors handed out Prešeren's floor prize to Mark Ivan Rupnik for mosaic in the Vatican a few years ago, and Svetlana Makarovič therefore refused recognition. In our view, the proposed legal regime is approaching the opposite extremes. The expert committees are set up to assist in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of the new Article 8, which is necessary already in view of the scope of the artistic material to be reviewed and evaluated, while at the same time the powers of the Management Board are being transferred to the initial appointment of the members of the expert commissions, and the presentation of the 3rd December administrative and protocol presentation and the ceremony at the celebration on 8 February are being carried out. As the decision-making body, the board of directors has a very limited space, the approval of nominations from expert committees, and the issue of public responsibility remains entirely on its shoulders. We believe that the law should make it clearer that the Management Board may reject or exceptionally choose the awardor without its assistance, but of course it must give particular justification and indeed answer for the decision. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u127	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u128	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister! We all agreed that the Prešeren Prize Act needed a thorough overhaul. The award of Prešern's prizes and Prešeren's prizes is interesting to us the ingrained patriarchality of Slovenian society. Since 1947, when the Prešeren Prize was first awarded, there have been a total of 354 recipients, of which only 32 were awarded, which means only 9%. Of the 511 prizes awarded to the Prešeren Fund, 89 or 16% were women's awards. Statistical inequality is not only a consequence of the thinking of another period, since the comparison of recipients over the last decade shows that women are constantly pushed to the brink of the prizes. Between 2007 and 2017, there were no women's awards for seven years at all, although two awards are generally awarded. Also in the case of Prešeren Fund awards, the relationship is strongly inclined to the detriment of the recipients. This statistics do not in any way reflect actual differences in quality or quantity of cultural production, but only reveal patriarchal patterns. In the area of cultural production among self-employed people, women, who despite their extremely insurmountable environment, are only reminded of young mothers or single mothers, but they achieve distinctive results both at home and abroad. So, the fact that we don't have enough good artists just doesn't hold, but the point is, we don't have enough award-winning artists. The government's proposal for gender inequality among recipients did not solve it. It provided only for the introduction of equivalent representation between the members of the Management Board and between the members of the expert committees. Fortunately, we have adopted an amendment on the committee to ensure equal representation among the nominees proposed by the individual expert commissions. In this way, women will be able to be proposed for the Prešeren Prize and thus be given the opportunity to receive these awards. However, in Levic, we are confident that another step must be taken. In view of the devastating statistics which show that genders are unduly unequal in the award of Prešeren Prizes and Prešeren Prizes, gender equality should also be linked to the award of prizes and not just to the nomination. Only in this way can we immediately ensure that both genders are effectively represented among the winners of the prizes. This is why we will support the law in Levika, but we insist on an amendment to Article 4, which introduces a provision on gender parity in both awards. The retention system is the only effective solution in the light of the apparent unequal position of female artists. This would also be an important step towards gender equality, an important signal that we are becoming a more equal society in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u129	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 9. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I agree that when we talk about the statistics of the awards awarded both for life's work and for the Prešeren Fund, it is poor through gender representation. This is certainly not due to the fact that there would not be enough artists in our Slovenian space, or even less, that artists would not contribute too much to Slovenia's cultural landscape. The proposed amendment requires that sexual quotas be taken into account at the time of the award of the prizes themselves. Nevertheless, I believe that a better solution, which has also been voted on by the Committee, that the composition of the expert committees is sexually balanced and that the law also requires sexually balanced proposals by the expert commissions, both for the Prešeren Fund and for the Life Work Prize, must be sexually balanced. So 1 : 1 for both awards. In this way, the board of directors will also receive the same number of proposals from artists and artists and will then autonomously decide who to award the prize to. In fact, once proposals are before an administrative committee that does not have exclusively a protocol role, as stated in the New Slovenia position, it will then be able to make an autonomous decision on the basis of artistic achievement and not on the basis of the sexual identity of the individual to whom it will actually award the prize. If the proposal of the Left had been announced, even though I understood it perfectly well-intentionedly, then of course we would have the situation that artists and artists through the quota would actually run exclusively between themselves by sex, that is, artists individually and artists separately. And that means running on the basis of sexual identity and not on the basis of artistic achievement. Personally, I do not think that this is the purpose of the prize, because it seems to me that understanding art exclusively through sex, to which the amendment actually goes, cannot be in the spirit of enlightenment that the highest state recognition actually carries. In the final phase, of course, the board of directors will also have to bear a moral obligation, on the basis of the adopted law, to maintain the importance of the prize in this broad sense. We will not support the SMC Amendment Group in the final stage, because we also do not want to discredit any of the winners in time in the way that he won the prize solely because he is a man or a woman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u131	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I do not agree with my colleague, Saša Tabakovic, that artists then run among themselves by sex, because the expert commission will put the same number of female and male candidates in the pool. And what defends us, then, if the expert commission has already determined that candidates and candidates are as good as candidates, that they can be candidates, that they can be chosen if the prize is awarded to two awardees, that it is one woman and one man. In short, it is not about understanding art through sex, as it states, it is about understanding art by quality. So far, the understanding of art has been evident through sex, if we observe that women candidates have been so strongly represented in awards. And the nomination itself assures them only that they will be able to go further in their choice, but it certainly does not guarantee that they will actually be chosen. And in Levica we supported the amendment, which ensures that artists will be nominated by expert commissions, sexually balanced. Yes, this is one step in the right direction, because an expert committee will submit two proposals to the board of directors, namely one man and one for a female artist. But again, in the light of the devastating statistics that we have witnessed all these years, it seems to us that this is simply not enough, because the amendment to Article 8 that we have supported does not mean any guarantee that women will actually be equally represented and that they will actually receive this award. This does not mean that the Commission has the same number of women as men, that women will be supported by representatives and again, not by sex quota. Previously, we've found that an artist, a quality artist, is enough and they wouldn't get a prize just because they're women. Because they are good enough and especially because it is their turn to finally win the awards in the male world, which, however we turn, is the world of art. Believe me, I know what I'm saying because I experienced it on my own. Therefore, in Levica we propose this amendment, which would ensure equality on the entire line, is also said in the end in awarding the prizes. Although the proposal was submitted by the Association Society, we have submitted it further and therefore we believe that the attachment is the only just solution and we insist on an amendment to Article 4, which ensures the same representation directly. The coalition's amendments so far guarantee the indirect realization of the principle of justice, and no one guarantees it. And with our amendment, we get it right away and safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u133	If anyone else wants to discuss it, please apply. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u134	Yes, thank you very much. As the law does not guarantee, as Violet’s colleague said, that a woman would receive a prize, so of course the law does not guarantee that a man would receive it. Speaking of artistic surplus, we can't talk about the definition of artistic surplus through sexual identity. With the bill, we establish a gender balance between artists and artists who will, of course, be proposed to the board of directors, and at this level their artistic achievement is the same or equal if you want, and then the board of directors, on the basis of the artistic surplus, award a prize. And it is not right for the board of directors to award a prize based on sexual identity. Because the definition of artistic surplus simply cannot be framed by sex. Therefore, we will not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u135	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, the proposal on the left is kind of populism, and it's also kind of popular. More women, more women everywhere, equality and so on, but let's look at it from one practical and logical perspective. If we reduce the issue, reward, in the sense that it is the first, it is the true awarding of awards for the highest or the largest contributions to art. And now, on the other hand, we would reduce it to gender. What does that mean? This means, in practice, that in a year, if we really had to award one Prešeren Prize for Women and another for Men, there could be two more than the eligible winners or candidates for the Prize, but they would not have won it. They wouldn't get it because they'd be the same sex. I can reverse the situation, I say two men, two candidates, just as exceptional in my creative field, but I should not be rewarded because they are the wrong sex. Now tell me if it's equality or if it's justice. I'm saying no. I, too, think that if we were to make this legal, I would always remain in the awarding of bitter taste that someone has won the prize just because of a certain gender. I don't agree, either, in principle, to some quota in the sense that someone is somewhere just because there is another sex. I think, of course, it sounds good, only in a minority are women represented in society on some important functions, but that anyone says that someone is in this function just because they are a woman's sex. I think that we are not doing any good with this, and we are awakening even less of a situation in the sense of "it is not about ability, it is about being a different sex". We don't agree to that kind of thinking in the SDS. I believe that each one of us doesn't agree to this intimately. For being rewarded means that you are supreme, that you are able, and that you have made some contribution to this country, that those who decide that you are fit for the highest form of the reward shall think. And not because you're some kind of sex. There's something else about these things when we're talking about sex. Now there will be some balance in the sense that the board or the boards will make up, but I hope that these commissions will not work on the basis that they will now be sworn to, but that they must strictly respect the sex structure and now we will look back on how many awards an individual has won, whether there have been more women or men. But is there something else where I think we all have to think about the past winning awards: do we have a system in general that enables everyone in art to have the same opportunity to participate, which in fact is as self-employed as the rest of them when they are vulnerable? We certainly know that in some artistic expression or in some art category or area it can be, I don't know, just a labor problem. This is another where I think that the basic problem is why, of course, an individual category, and in this case we are talking about women according to the awards that have been awarded so far, they get a real opportunity. And one more thing: Are we really aware and rewarding in the field of culture those who are actually capable of making a great contribution? It hurts me so much when creators have to leave this country and elsewhere, far away from the land of birth, they achieve extraordinary achievements. Did we let them work here? And here was the starting point that I was talking about in my position that I was disturbed by the fact that this method of acquisition, which will now be the composition of these boards and everything else, will not be dominated by political connotation, because that is bad. After all, in the final stage, it's bad, because then there's a scandal, even with the awards of Prešern. This does not benefit any, at least, rewarders, at least those who have been rewarded so far. We don't do any added value with this. I sincerely hope that in the future we will be able to overcome this political framework and actually look at the expertise and reward what Slovenians and Slovenians like. Let us reward what Slovenians and Slovenians respect and love. Above all, let us do our utmost to ensure that different gender structures occur in the awarding category itself, but not because of the sex itself, but because the conditions will be possible for both sexes to be able to even be in this artistic category, I will say, the stage, whatever form it is, can act equally and have the same opportunities and, of course, help at the time they need it. I believe there will be many more women on the list of Presherno's winners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u137	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the other hand, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on social protection in the context of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u138	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! In the first reading at the June meeting of the National Assembly and at the 45th regular meeting of the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, you discussed the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection. In both cases, the bill was adopted with majority support, even without a vote, for which I sincerely thank you in the beginning. This also makes it clear that Members recognize the importance of the work of social work centres and thus give effect to the Government's proposal that we legally provide the centres for social work with the best possible opportunity to work. The Ministry started drafting the bill last year, and we forwarded it to the public debate last December. In the meantime, we have carried out a number of activities and, above all, we have included all stakeholders, including the profession, the local community and trade unions in the drafting of the marriage text. The profession, trade unions and the Council of State have expressed support for the proposed reform concept. At the Ministry, we believe that the new law provides a good substantive basis for reforming social work centres. The bill is preparing a change in the network of 62 centres for social work, which has not been changed in the last 25 years, although in the meantime they have significantly increased and substantially changed their tasks. The main objectives of the reorganisation are: to unify the work of social work centres; to simplify administrative procedures and thus to relieve professional workers, which will result in more opportunities for professional work and efficiency; and, of course, to bring social work centres closer to users and users. A key starting point of the bill is that 62 units of social work centres remain the main institution of social policy in the local environment. It is stipulated by law that units carry out professional tasks. The reorganisation brings a number of social work centres together to the Social Work Centre, which will cover a larger territorial area. 16 centres for social work are foreseen. Management and management shall be carried out for the entire area at this site. The Director shall be responsible for the organisation and management of the professional work and the operations of social work centres. Within each of the 16 social work centres, there will be a common general service covering accounting, administrative tasks, legal and human resources services. The Joint Service and decision-making of rights from public resources will also be established at the Social Work Area Centres, which means that we are actually centralising only administrative and general services and, above all, by separating a unit that will decide on one-year rights, we are reducing the administrative burden of social work centres, while all professional work will take place in units, i.e. at existing social work centres. This will increase the mobility of the professional staff in order to facilitate the multi-disciplinary treatment of the most difficult cases, which are unfortunately increasingly common, and it will be much easier for 16 areas to provide greater expertise with existing staff in dealing with the most challenging cases. At the time of the reorganisation, it is also important that this foundation, which is before you today, speaks of an organisational change in social work centres, which, as I said, is a good basis for reorganising the work of social work centres. Remember, however, that important processes are also social activation, which means more active social policy, programmes to address the social problem of long-term recipients of financial social assistance on the one hand, and – probably the most important project for citizens and citizens – the introduction of an information decision on one-year rights, which will significantly burden the centres for social work of this administrative work. It should be stressed that we have tried to reach the broadest possible consensus both on the network and on the professions and other stakeholders, particularly local communities. It should be stressed, however, that the social work centres cannot be compared with the organisation of Gurs or Furs, i.e. geodetic administrations and the Financial Administration, where the abolition occurred, here is actually the basis that this cannot happen. At the core of social work centres, state institutions remain and are in the local environment. Their connection to the local environment is crucial. Thank you for today's debate and confirmation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u139	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 45th session. 9. As a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act submitted by the Government in the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. At its 31st meeting on the proposal for a law, the National Assembly held a general discussion and adopted a conclusion that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection was appropriate for further consideration. Representatives of the proposer, i.e. the Government, the Minister for Work with his team, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the State Council and the representative of the community of social work centres, participated in the work of the committee. The Committee also received an opinion from our Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect and made some concrete proposals to each article. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which said that it supported the proposed measures in the draft law itself. As the representative of the proposer also said today at the plenary session of the National Assembly, the Minister for Labour, that the draft law at the June meeting of the National Assembly received the majority support in the general debate. The Ministry started drafting the bill last December when it was prepared for public hearing and in the meantime carried out a number of activities, and in particular included the widest range of stakeholders in the drafting of the legislative text. In particular, I would like to point out here the representatives of the profession, the local community, the municipalities and, of course, the trade unions. In the debate that followed on the Committee itself, it was explicitly stressed that it would be important what would be enshrined in the statutes of the regional centres and that local environments should be included in the system itself or decision-making procedures. With the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1, social work centres will establish cooperation with competent authorities, organisations and non-governmental organisations in the integration of vulnerable groups into preventive health care programmes. It is also important that formal cooperation between social work centres and other stakeholders is promoted in order to effectively address and reduce health inequalities. It was also pointed out that the law was only a form, but not a legal content, what and how it would be done in the future, although most of the colleagues, members of the committee, did not agree. The Minister stressed that the reorganisation of the centres meant changes in the organisational structure and that they also believed that these would be a good basis for changes in the way it works. After the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 5, 15, 17, 18 and 20, but did not adopt amendments to Articles 2, 7 and 15. Finally, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary proposal of the Social Protection Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report, which I have tried to present briefly to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u141	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at the 31st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 18. 9. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. With this amendment, we want to ensure equal accessibility of social security services for all beneficiaries under equal conditions throughout the country. In fact, we are afraid that in the event of a reorganisation, I am not saying that this is going to happen, but I am saying that the abolition of some smaller units could happen. The explanations, including in the text, clearly state that the existing 62 centres will be transformed into 62 units of district centres, but this content will not then be passed on to the articles of the proposal. Articles 2 and 17 only state that the government will establish centres and units by regulation. In the absence of a clear assurance that the existing network of centres is being maintained, and in the light of the fact that this reorganisation will only be carried out under the next government, there is a clear opening of a suspicious road to the abolition of smaller centres or units. In Levica, we propose to record in the transitional provision that the reorganisation will preserve the territorial coverage and accessibility that existed prior to the reorganisation. With this amendment, we do not doubt the good intentions of the proposer, but we want them to be translated into the very articles of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u143	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, I know. I was wrong. I'm sorry. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Hello, everyone, and especially the Minister with her co-worker! All I would say is that I have supported this reorganisation of social work centres all the time, because I believe that after 25 years of the current way of organising this reorganisation is absolutely necessary, even because of the substantively modified tasks that have been given to social work centres. Now I will no longer be long and broad-based about this position, because I do not think that this is important at this stage of acceptance. However, I would like to stress my position on the amendment proposed by the Left. I, in principle, don't think it'll be any worse if this amendment is adopted and nothing better. But I'm always like this when it's not clear for one thing whether it's better or worse, I'd rather support it. For this reason, I think it is better that we adopt this proposal in order to add in Article 2 at the end of paragraph 6 the text that the Government, through a regulation, ensures the appropriate and equitable territorial representation of these centres for social work. In the event that this is written down, although already in this proposal for a regulation which is an integral part of this law, it is written down where the social work centres will be and where the units will be. In short, I support this amendment of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u145	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs has equal opportunities for Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. I would say, with regard to the amendment itself, that I agree with what is stated in the explanation. There is no problem in the explanation given, and all the time we have been in coordination with the professional public, and we have always ensured that, of course, the regulation which the Government will have to adopt in the next three months will, of course, be on the existing network of social work centres. At the same time, we wrote down the role of the National Assembly. We talked a lot about setting up a network with the law, but given the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, this was not possible, so the regulation remains. So, all the time we've had a frank dialogue about the fact that the existing network of 62 centres remains, so all units remain. It is also very clear in addition to Article 49a that offices with directors can also be established. After talking to everyone in this area, when we have spoken with all the directors of the regional groups, we already know that there is a problem of accessibility in the North Sea, so that some additional offices will certainly be provided. The problem with this article is that I'm only into something. In fact, everything is well and well written here, says: “The government by regulation ensures an appropriate and equitable territorial organisation of social work centres.” Does this make it self-evident that the existing network is such that it ensures this? If not, this amendment may constitute a modification of the existing network. Because we have come from the existing network of 62 social work centres, we have connected them according to how they are already cooperating and what their links to the environment are. But it is, as it sounds, theoretically very good and we absolutely support the purpose that it is. However, it can make a number of problems for us in the future in terms of whether there is an existing network that I know and want to provide for, because people in it know which social work centres access where their entry point is, it could be a problem. So from this point of view, this article, as it was written, is the correct explanation, but it is itself. With regard to the very purpose which is expressed, I have no problem with it, because I have provided you with this public discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u147	I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u148	President, thank you for your word. I didn't sign up to argue. I'd like to make that contribution, but it's not strictly about the amendment, but I'm reaching a little wider. In our parliamentary group and myself, I have become very involved in the drafting of this proposal, mainly because I have come from some changes in the public sector in local communities, which are smaller or if you want to, specifically in smaller municipalities. What led me to get involved in this matter? Above all, because experience with some institutions such as taxes, then inspections, the military, police and, of course, some who have not yet done so have a strict intention to do so, these are administrative units that move some services without knowing anything about it in this hall or in this house, and, of course, some of the purpose of the courts to do the same in the future. This is said to include up to 30,000 people in municipalities, and we may lose the whole public sector within a few years, and this can also represent between 80 and 100 important jobs for these small environments. Given the specificity of social work centres and the strong connection to the field, we did not wish to do so in these environments. But in the course of the debate here, I must now commend the Minister, however, that this debate has also been organised and that this debate has also been and that in the first debate in which I also participated in the field, I have made some further comments and that the Ministry has taken them into account in the further debate, particularly in the accession to the debate itself. In the debate, we said more or less what was weighing us down and, at the same time, highlighted in some way the issues that ensured the existence of unit centres in these environments. At the same time, we have given some special function to local communities, which as a consultative body, not as a world at the level of the unit, as a consultative body of the assistant or deputy, I think that the assistant head of the social work centre, in this work, has also been helped or advised in some way. At the same time, we insisted that the local community’s representatives, Resda, too, might have a technical problem, especially because some sub-regions actually have a huge number of local communities or communities. Finally, I realized that it would look like some small congresses when he took over the institute’s world. This may not be the most effective one, but the local communities, the real ones, will feel that they are also normally involved in the creation of this social policy. We have come to the conclusion when we have resolved all these matters, that in our parliamentary group, as well as ourselves, we will adopt the proposal of this law, I have been convinced, and I also remain convinced that the management of the centre and the management of this centre could still be as successful or even more successful as it has been so far if it were to remain in that form. But still, the reorganisation brings, I'll say, greater control of this area at state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u149	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! I'm going to surprise you once for a change. I'm going to be a little shorter this time than I ever was. Of course, I am pleased that we are adopting this law today and will be finally adopted. This is not the only thing that needs to be changed in the framework of the Social Protection Act, but is all the more so than trivial, i.e. this reorganisation of the centre. What, for my taste, is essential in changing this law, in reorganizing the centers. It is essential that certain procedures are uniformised and in this sentence in the same breath, I stress, this is not centralisation, this is about unifying certain procedures. Consequently, secondly, it is a matter of greater efficiency, and, thirdly, it is a matter of some new professional forms of work. The consequence of all that is mentioned under the common umbrella or under the common denominator is that more work will be done in the field, more time will be given to employees who have been trained and educated to deal with people, with their pressures, problems, and, of course, help. What else is essential about this marriage? It is essential that the FURS style is carried out, not in the organisational form of FURS, but in the style of FURS, the Financial Administration for the so-called information decision on rights from public funds and, of course, it will be another important moment of so-called social activation. How important it is that people who need help are in some way interested, reactivate, if you want, and train them to become or remain, especially become competitive in the labour market. I am, as I say, glad that this law is finally changing. As much as my memory goes back, at least since 2001, when I came to the ministry and talked, maybe even earlier, it was said that we would reorganise to re-establish the structure of these social work centres, which some ministers and ministers have changed, that I am not talking about state secretaries and other officials in ministries, but that step has not been taken, now whether it was not courage or sincere desire, I don't know, but something has run out. It's obvious now, even political will is at the moment. If it is known after the morning, we are also remembered in June, when we also discussed it at the first reading of the National Assembly, we all in some way praised the matter, there were virtually no serious reservations, but it is necessary to let time be allowed to see how the matter will proceed. I hope that the information system will not sit down, as this is often the case. But what surrounds me even more with optimism is that we are not on the working body in practice, but in fact unanimously, I am not sure that 17 of us voted that we were all on the committee, but all of us who were there, who care about changing the legislation and trying to participate actively, we voted or pressed the button for it, and we gave the green light to this law on the committee. I believe and, by the way, there is no ideological bullets in this law, but it is intended for people, irrespective of regional, sexual and I do not know of any other affiliation and orientation, that we will of course support it, hoping that all the other parameters necessary for the smooth functioning of the law itself will be fulfilled and that the matter will run in the right direction. Of course, I will not repeat what my leader Jurša said: Sometimes when a snake bites you, you fear twisted ropes. In fact, I am sure that the reorganisation of the centres will not follow a bad example of the reorganization of police administrations and not the most optimal reorganisation of financial administrations, but what else could I find here. But I'm going to take a little risk with one provocation, and I'm going to say to those who are going to design or design local self-government, and for the time being, more verbally, less in the proposals for concrete solutions, that this should be a point of view for them, and I want a successful path for them too, if these good practices are to be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u151	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u152	Hello! The purpose of this amendment is clear. Madam Minister, if you are concerned about the following formulation, "the equitable availability of social security services for all beneficiaries under the same conditions throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia" I think you are being unduly concerned. I understand the dilemma, but in this case this formulation is equal to the existing 62 units, which is the basis for the proposaler's explanation, which is my explanation in this place in the National Assembly, as we know, is also the purpose of the proposalr, not just that letter on paper, so I think this amendment stands, but I understand even.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u153	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item, as well as the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4 p.m. and 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u154	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm continuing with the adjourned meeting of the choir. Before we come to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in the following order. 2nd, 15th, 16th, 18th, 19th and 20th agenda items. We move to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, by emergency procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 19. 9. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 9.a. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, none against. (For the vote was 47.)(against 0.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 13 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 9a, 13 and 15 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u155	Your Honor! Assistance to public health institutions should be based on at least two issues, namely the existing recovery plans and, of course, the measures already in place, which would show or enable the recurrence of liquidity problems in these public institutions. This law is not foreseen, and it is still unclear who will implement it or how the recovery plans will be prepared, what measures will be taken in the future to avoid new liquidity problems in hospitals. Nor is the law on governance and business, which would require responsibility from those who have created these losses in the past. Of course, this is impossible if the Ministry is the one who, at the same time as the management of the institutions, creates these losses or has made these losses possible in recent years. In fact, the release of austerity measures in 2015-2016 helped to ensure that hospitals had to pay higher salaries and rewards to doctors, which is normal, but did not receive any additional money for this. The next issue is the reduction in the prices of services in 2017, which also helped to increase losses in last year or, above all, this year. Unregulated financing of emergency centres and, of course, ineffective measures to reduce material prices have caused these losses in recent years. On the other hand, it has been said that suppliers who want money immediately today are, in fact, already yesterday, and there are no measures in this area, namely, measures against corruption in health care, measures against overpayment of material which, on the other hand, in addition to the costs of services and the costs of employees’ work cause losses. This law is therefore a first aid to public health institutions and does not guarantee financial stability, as stated by the Ministry. We give money to those who have made losses, i.e. fresh money, and at the same time we reward them by sitting on boards or boards to remedy the damage at the same time as the ministry they have done themselves. That is why, in our view, in the parliamentary group, because this law is inadequately prepared and does not give long-term measures to reduce liquidity problems and the problems of hospitals, we will also vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u156	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 12 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2017. We decide on the amendment of SD and SMC to Article 3. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour and 11 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 15 of the Left Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, chairman. In October 2015, the Ministry proposed a draft law limiting concessions to 15 years. This was a positive proposal, since until this point concessions have also been granted for an indefinite period of time, it is said to be for life. Janša, Minister Bručan, as I recalled in the debate, for example, awarded a concession for an indefinite period to MD Medicine, where our Prime Minister Miro Cerar is now being treated. Well, then there was the pressure of the concessionaires and the medical board, and the government went to change this article. It introduced the possibility for the concessionaire to be extended after the 15-year period of the concession following a simplified procedure, it is said that he is continuing without a new invitation to tender without the possibility of obtaining another concession. The concessions will thus continue to be awarded for a period of up to 30 years under this Health Action Act, which the Ministry itself considered to be just once more a long period of time. With the amendment in Levica, we are proposing nothing very drastic, just that the law comes back to the original proposal. If a concession can already be granted, it should be granted for a period of 15 years. Then, once again, it shall be checked whether the public institution can now carry out this activity itself or can be financed again by the municipality and so on, whether the concession is still necessary. And if a government proposal is adopted, no municipality will be interested in investing in a healthcare home or in an analogue country investing in hospitals. Why? Because everyone in political office will know that the concession has already been promised and practically given to that old concessionaire. For the development of the public health system, this is certainly poor and unacceptable, but we pay taxes to the state, to the municipalities, to provide us with a basic need, this is the basic coverage of healthcare. We don't pay taxes so that politics throws 200 million euros for patriots to finance Nate's work or that some mayors build fountains instead of health homes. No, no, no. We finance the state to service our basic needs as people. Health is certainly the first among them, and that is why we will support this amendment. Concessions have to be confused.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u158	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 5 votes in favour and 63 votes in favour. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 21. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the left-wing group Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Article 21 of the Health Act opens something that was not in the old current law at all, namely that public institutions with other health operators can agree on the provision of health services. Does it sound pretty innocent or not? It's not really like that. The government proposes the possibility of quietly privatising public health services. In order to be able to outsource health activities to a private health care company, in the same way as now public companies, for example, they outsource some cleaning services and so on. The public service has so far been able to conclude a contract with a doctor or any other healthcare professional, says at this individual level, but could not or could not have outsourced whole parts of the activity to another company. Moreover, it is problematic that the law does not prescribe any conditions for such outsourcing. In the award of the concession, for example, it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Health Insurance Office and the consent of the Ministry, so that the concession can be issued only exceptionally. We don't have a security guard like that around here. My colleague, my colleagues, if you don't accept this amendment of the Left, you've done nothing with this law today. Everything that's good in him will fall into the water. What helps you to make stricter regulations when a health director or a hospital director can peacefully sign a contract with a private person on the issue of a health scheme paid by a public authority, with our money, without criteria, without invitations, without anything other than a deadline? On the other hand, why would a private person wait for the concession and all the conditions and controls that come with it, but if he can agree with the hospital director to give him part of his programme, then, of course, the funds follow. In Levica, we propose to stop this backdoor privatisation of Slovenian health care immediately in such a way that the contract can only be concluded with another public institution. Thus, public institutions will still be able to help each other, both human resources and otherwise, and the back door will be bolted so that our privatisation will not be intruded through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u160	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 57. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly at that meeting, carry out a third examination of the law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 15. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 15. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patient Rights in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2017. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 6. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 48. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 48. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the motion for a motion for a law on discussion suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 15. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 6 and 15 of the amended law. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to these articles? On behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Branko Zorman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the coalition groups, I announce the amendment to Article 6 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u162	The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday, 26. 9. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on the Prešern Prize in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 18. 9. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the V Group of Members. [[…]] First of all, is there any explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? It's not. A self-explanation of the voice, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u163	Thank you very much, President. I strongly support the purpose of this amendment. This is said, I am sure that sometimes, in some ways, there is a need to change the way people behave in a way that is more equal. But with all this stuff, we're running into freedom. But here I think it's gone too far. Indeed, if we wanted to be equal to electoral quotas, we would not only present electoral quotas, but would also force voters to vote that 40% of women should be admitted, elected to parliament, as we now want everything to be the same. On the other hand, what if there are three of the best women in one area, two awards are awarded, and two women will have to drop out and give one man. Besides, it seems to me that art, culture is just something, I would say, very free, free, even random, that we can finally let the final decision-maker decide what he wants. However, it is enough to prepare conditions for him to be able to make decisions on the basis of expertise, but not to force him to do so. Then we would start slowly: even older than 60 years of age should receive something, or less than 25 years of age, and so on, and then we can give more or less rewards in advance with this law. That is why, of course, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u164	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 62. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 10. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 18. 9. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the left-wing group Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, chairman! Although the text and the explanations of this law clearly state that the existing 62 social work centres will be transformed into 62 district centres, this content is not yet translated into articles of the law itself. Articles 2 and 17 only state that the government will, by regulation, establish centres and units and, in the absence of a clear assurance that the existing network of social work centres will not be reduced. And in the light of the fact that this reorganisation is to take place only during the term of the next other government, of course, there is an option here, an unwanted possibility for the abolition of smaller centres or units. In Levica, it is proposed that a transitional provision should be entered in order to maintain territorial coverage and accessibility, as was the case before the reorganisation. The precise wording of this amendment gives rise to concern in the ministry, which agrees with the purpose of this amendment, but says it can be a problem because we ensure equal access to social security services and then it is not clear whether this is aligned with the existing network of 62 centres, or whether this means additional engraving and repositioning of this network. I think that this thought on the first ball is justified, but really not, because it is also important for such things, for what purpose, the proposer writes a matter into the law or for what purpose makes the amendment. It is more than clear from the explanation of our amendment and from this explanation and from my discussions during today's session that we want to maintain an intact network of these 62 centres. And what we want to achieve with it is that one of these social centres will not be eliminated and what local environment will be left without this institution. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u166	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 46. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 14. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
