ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Irena Kotnik by 12 noon, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar from 13:00 on, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Porotat from 16:00 on, Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Peter Wilfan, Mr Tomaž Gantar from 15:00 on, Mr Simon Zajc from 12:00 on, Mr Saša Tabaković from 12:00 on, Mr Franc Laj, Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Bojan Podkrajšek. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The law before us was transmitted to the competent ministry or government for adoption by the National Assembly in April. In addition to the public presentation of the opinions on this law, we have also faced opinions several times at several meetings of the committee responsible. Let me first of all stress that at the Ministry we have actually made all the professional efforts, as well as the different opinions and views of the profession, as well as, of course, the reflections that come from the general public and individual political groups. In addition to the implementation of the constitutional decision on the financing of private schools, we have focused in particular on all the elements that build quality and, above all, on the stability of the public education system. These are also key points of this proposed novel and at the same time safeguard the future development of the education system and, of course, the quality of public education at the same time. The law thus implements the constitutional decision first, namely that the State is obliged to finance the compulsory part of a public programme while also defining itself to an extended programme. We know that self-determination has triggered very different views, opinions, we can also say multidimensional reflections, but there is no doubt as such an effort on the part of the legislator to address the issue of financing the compulsory primary school programme. The proposal before you is trying to resolve this in a way that takes into account the rights already in force in 1996, when such an agreement has also been concluded, while respecting the 2014 Constitutional Decision. At the same time, it is particularly important to note that part of the professional and substantive solutions that I have already indicated, which are stability, strength, quality of the public school system, and thus in some way also safeguard our systemic integrity in the future. Therefore, the procedure for the acquisition of public power is much more detailed and more difficult. Therefore, public validity is no longer automatically financed. Therefore, we also propose that the public validity of the programme may also be withdrawn. These are all the novelties proposed by the law in a way that preserves strength, stability and quality. At the same time, it is also true that we have a definition of protection before us that, in the event of any disagreement or any issue that might affect this very social stability, the Government may adopt a decision not to implement a particular programme or establishment of a school, of course, in accordance with the predetermined criteria in the regulation. These are all the key novelties that the proposal for a law or a novelty brings to the fore. At the same time, it is very important that we also implement a way of verifying the achievement of standards and objectives of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia, by allowing for programme diversity when it comes to private initiatives. Why? Because, of course, such a public, quality and all inclusive accessible education system is also in line with the constitutional provision of access to each of the basic schools, but we also allow for a private part which should bring about programme diversity. We have been discussing this and also stressing it all the time, but at the same time we are complementing the amendment precisely in terms of achieving the standards and objectives of public validity in order to ensure that the quality of application is implemented, whether in the public system or in private schools. At the same time, the withdrawal of public power is also something that most countries around us know, something we have never known before. Also mentioned is the non-automaticity of funding, which I think is also crucial in considering the achievement of standards. Your Honor! The proposal for an amendment also brings with it arrangements for appointment of directors, which is one of the key procedural, including locally seen characteristics at this time, and it is only right to arrange this. We also put in law assistants of the educator, which we have already taken into account in the adoption of the amendments to the Kindergarten Act. The proposal therefore brings new evaluations and, in particular, the drafting of standards that these occupational groups are currently implementing in kindergartens. If I finish. We would also like to see this discussion, what and what kind of education we want in Slovenia in accordance with the Constitutional Decision: in terms of safeguards, in terms of quality, in terms of achieving standards and goals that are key to our young people, children and, above all, the future development of the system, which should be solid, stable and inclusive. At the same time, I propose that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the draft law be made at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, at its 33rd regular session and at its first, second, third and fourth sessions, discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law was examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. In its introduction, the representative explained that the proposal for a law eliminates a variety of levels of funding for the compulsory work of the publicly applicable primary education programmes in public and private schools. In this respect, it is also in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service that it implements the Constitutional Court decision on the basis of the conclusion that the content of the compulsory part of the public school curriculum is uniformly established for all primary education providers. It further commented on the individual articles of the bill. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the representative of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. The debate focused on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision on the conditions for financing private schools. Some discussers felt that education in primary schools was a human right that was realized on the basis of a well-organised network of public primary schools. Every child has the right to free education, which is provided by public schools, and in private school free education should only be possible if the child is not enrolled in a public school. Proponents of the law explained that the law makes the distinction between public and private education more precise in school. Recent practices have shown that erasing the borders between public and private education is bad throughout the vertical region. They agreed that, in accordance with the Constitutional Decision on Private School, which fulfils the legal conditions and implements the primary education programme, 100 per cent of the funding provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the compulsory public school programme for this part should be provided. The remaining part of the programme is an extended programme and is not financed by public funds. Others considered that this was not a private school funding but a financing of a publicly valid primary school programme implemented by private schools, while education was free. The primary school must offer compulsory and extended work to pupils, and it must also be paid, regardless of what kind of primary school it is. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the context of the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, there has been a high degree of pressure in recent months to equalise public and private primary education. The result of such pressure is, of course, also the law that we are considering today under this item on the agenda. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposal for a new law does not constitute either an appropriate way or an appropriate content for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's judgment. As is known, we, together with the Members and Members of Desus, Left and Alenka Bratušek's parties, have already submitted a proposal almost three years ago for the only effective way to maintain the public-private education ratio. Last but not least, the Constitutional Court itself spoke of the legality and legitimacy of the amendment to Article 57 of the Constitution. And the correctness of such clearance of the content of Article 57 of the Constitution is also confirmed by the fact that we receive proposals from amendments that once set the funding formula for private schools in relation to the extended programme and the mandatory programme in the ratio of 100 to 85, secondly 100 to zero, thirdly again another proposal. In short, all of this proves that there is, in fact, a great deal of pressure to resolve this within the law. The amendments proposed by the opposition parliamentary groups are also much publicised. It destroys the condition that a private school should ensure the enrolment of a student regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs. It follows from such a proposal that the State would be obliged to finance a private school based on exclusion. However, public funding for such institutions is constitutionally disputed in itself. Therefore, the proposals do not resolve the unconstitutional situation but create a new anti-constitutionality and open the way for a re-assessment of public education funding before the Constitutional Court. We therefore reiterate the urgent need to take an in-depth approach to the formulation of the content of Article 57 of the Constitution, thus closing down the politicisation of the functioning of public primary schools, which have great trust and support in the public. In addition to this content, we also want to highlight another important content that has somehow been neglected on this important issue, namely the way in which directors are appointed. Again, the politicisation of the work of the pedagogical leader will be stepped up here, and this also somehow constitutes an intervention of policy in the autonomy of the school field. According to a new agreement on the appointment of a director, the competent minister should give his consent. At the same time, the motioner does not specify the reasons why the Minister could object to the Council's proposal, the appointment of directors would be so impractical, and the decision-making of the discretionary right of the Minister, which he would be able to take primarily or also in his political discretion. And so the politicization of appointment of principals, for example, primary schools from the local level, where this is present, will move to the state level, which means increasing politicization and this is not good for the functioning of primary schools. On these grounds, which I have stated that the law does not solve the Constitutional Court's decision and the degree of politicisation in the appointment of directors, we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u7	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mrs Ljudmila Novak has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Unfortunately, many times we are here, we are talking too much about small problems that we can quickly solve with a little good will, rather than acting quickly and effectively. This is also the case when considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In doing so, the coalition revves the Constitutional Court's decision three years ago, which it tried to circumvent even by amending the Constitution. We are talking too much about €308,000 a year and not enough about all other solutions in the law, which may also be problematic. Is that respect for the rule of law? Is this ethical and moral conduct? Unfortunately, however, the government is also reviving its citizens and the right to free education for primary school children. This, of course, penalizes the parents of these children for choosing a primary school program to be carried out in a private school or for the implementation of a publicly valid program. True, it is only about a thousand 400 children and the voices of their parents in the elections will not be decisive. However, the case clearly shows that our citizens are not all equal for a ruling policy. The Constitution provides in Article 57 that education is free, that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds, that the State creates opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education, and in Article 41 that parents have the right to provide religious and moral education to their children in accordance with their beliefs. In Slovenia we have 6 such private schools, which should be particularly valuable for us because they introduce a different educational approach into the school space and thus even enrich Slovenian education. It was the parents ’ wish to learn some of the advantages of such teaching approaches. These parents and children are Slovenian citizens and taxpayers, our people. Some of the congregation’s schoolchildren also introduce and use, for example, Montessori pedagogical methods and others. These kindergartens have shown in practice that new, well-established teaching methods in the world can primarily enrich traditional approaches and help raise child labour levels. Opponents of the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision deceive the public when they say it is private school funding. That's not true. Because it is only the financing of a publicly valid primary school programme, which is only implemented by a private school. All that the state prescribes as a compulsory programme to be offered by all schools and financed in public school must also be financed by the State in private school. However, the implementation of other content, which represents a superstandard, must be paid by parents in the form of tuition. Private schools themselves finance the buildings in which the education takes place. The primary school in Slovenia must not generate profits. By failing to fully fulfil its financial obligations, the country will primarily deprive children from less wealthy families. Their parents will no longer be able to pay high school fees, and they will become truly elite schools for wealthy families. Thus, this law also violates the principle of the social state to which certain coalition parties like to refer. In Novi Slovenija, we will only support the law if our amendment is adopted, under which the state will finance 100 per cent of the mandatory programme, which is artificially divided into two parts in this law. You want to abolish public funding for morning protection, afternoon stay and additional and complementary education for children in these schools. It's a profoundly unsocial move! However, any reduced funding is contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision and reduces the rights already acquired, and such a law would therefore be constitutionally disputed at the time of its adoption. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! In New Slovenia we are used to the coalition rejecting many of our good proposals. This is not wise, but it is usually in this national assembly. But I ask you not to punish children and their parents for such foolish practices. They want to give their children only what they think is good for them and what the Constitution allows them to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u9	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u10	The position of the Left regarding private education financing is clear: private – public, these two must be separated. Slovenia is already on average spending more money on private schools than on comparable countries in Europe, although the proportion of students enrolled in such schools is lower. In Levica, we understand this as an expression of the high level of confidence in public education, which has been established through decades of effort and investment. Despite the fact that public education is undernourished, all efforts to increase funding for private schools are an attack on public school. Each euro for the private is less for public education. It is therefore not possible to support the adoption in Levica of a law that would equalise the state funding of private and public primary schools. The advantage of the Slovenian education system is a strong and quality network of public primary schools, which must also play a central role in the development of education. Public school should be strengthened, not weakened. One of the key public concerns is the role played by the equalisation of socio-economic differences between pupils. International literacy survey PIRLS 2016 has thus shown that in Slovenia, in the last 15 years, the differences between children from richer families and those from poorer families have increased by about a third in reading literacy. The starting point is that the public network must play a central role in the development of education, so private schools should not have the same funding for programmes. Equalisation of funding would put private people in a privileged position, since private founders could, by means of an additional input, allow for higher-standard education, which, after all, is already taking place. It should be added that private schools choose their pupils, do not take just about everyone, as the public primary school does, and make their choice on the basis of different criteria, examples from abroad show that they are also on the basis of ethnicity or handicap. In any case, private education contains an elitist factor. On the other hand, public school is one of the most powerful levers of the fight against social inequality and these social inequalities cannot in any way cause or reproduce, but at least private schools are primarily established for specific populations based on religion or belief, not for all. It's what makes them separate. In view of all of this, private education funding should be thoroughly recast, which was intended to amend Article 57 of the Constitution, which should take place in this mandate, and so before increasing the financing of private schools, we want only to accelerate the creation of two school systems, one for rich and religious communities and the other for everyone else. Politics should reverse this trend radically. Public primary school should become a free school for all, up to the last textbook and up to the last workbook.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u11	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The decision of the Constitutional Court that the State should co-finance a 100 % public primary school programme in private schools also encouraged a gruesome and emotional debate in both the public and politics. Thus, we have two proposals on the parliamentary benches, a proposal by the Group of Members to amend the Constitution and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Education and Financing of Education and Education tabled by the Government and before us today. Among other things, the bill now amends almost infamous Article 86, which lays down the conditions for financing private schools. Initially, the financing solution was envisaged in the manner set out by the parent body in adopting the amendment, i.e. 100 % of compulsory work financing and zero percent of the financing of the extended part of the education programme. Let me mention that we Members and Members have been under great pressure and calls for this only acceptable solution to be supported. Therefore, a week later, I could not be surprised at the amendment tabled by the Group of Members and Members of the SMC's largest government party, which is now forecasting 100 % of compulsory labour funding and 65% of the financing of the extended part of education. What has happened in the meantime is that the only acceptable solution, by then, has changed into a proposed solution, and what kind of proposal will eventually receive support, I cannot imagine. I also do not know what kind of proposal will eventually receive sufficient support, as it appears that positions change from minute to minute. I also stress that, in our view, the procedure for amending the Constitution should be completed before this bill is considered, even if a sufficient majority is not provided for the amendment of the Constitution. For playing with procedures is an act that is irresponsible and should not happen in the temple of democracy, on the shoulders of children. I therefore caution that children should not become subject to trade. Such conduct is unacceptable. Just like my fellow Member Mag. We never opposed private schools. What's more, we think they're welcome because they're enriching the school space. However, the obligation of the State to one or the other cannot be the same. Public schools ensure that all children receive the required education in the nearest school environment, while private schools do not. And this fundamental difference is that condition that must be taken into account when it comes to financing. After all, the duty of the State is not to support an educational institution that serves particular, religious or philosophical beliefs, but to provide quality and universally accessible public primary education. We do not support this bill in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of this proposal for the time being, as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u13	The text is addressed to the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that we, the two national communities, believe – and of course also in our parliamentary group – that public education in the Republic of Slovenia is quality, at a very high level and it is also suitable to deliver results. We also stress that the possibility of setting up a private education was added value and today, in the content debate, I will not go into this position on some of the fundamental issues of funding. However, I would like to point out that we believe that private education in Slovenia is by no means a threat to public education. In our parliamentary group, we considered the decision of the Constitutional Court to be compulsory, without any dilemma, and we were also of the opinion that this could only be achieved by means of a law on the financing and organisation of education. This law, as we know for a long time, we also know the reasons for it, but also in these dilemmas and debates that have occurred in recent years in this regard, I will not let go. I will also not touch on the extremes of the politicised atmosphere with regard to the change of the Constitution, because it is not the point of today's agenda. I would point out, however, that the initial proposal of the Ministry, which came to the National Assembly or which was adopted by the Government, has not entirely addressed the correct issue of private education financing, but is more acceptable to us, and we still insist. We therefore consider that, under the circumstances, the Ministry has proposed the best or the most optimal option in the light of the circumstances in which this content was found. All that followed, including the amended proposal for a law already presented, we believe that it is less than that and we do not support it. Unfortunately, the amendments do not go in the right direction either, in whole or in part, or the latter, which came from the side of the SMC Members. So I conclude that our position is that, in the proposed form, as is now proposed in the framework of the amended proposal of the law, we cannot support and do not believe that this can be enhanced by amendments. We are very sorry, however, that we are missing an opportunity offered by the Ministry's full proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u15	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u16	Your Honor, thank you for saying so! Today's novels of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education were introduced into the parliamentary procedure this April and have been given various attempts since then to avoid it. At the same time, we have faced a number of interpretations, polarizations and deceptions, as well as what is said in the 2014 Constitutional Court decision. In doing so, the goal of changing nothing in philosophy style was more than clear, to keep everything the way it is. As it is, we have not agreed in the SMC Group, because obviously we are more aware of the needs and urgency of the proposed novel. Even in the process of amending the Constitution, we have acted in a responsible and responsible manner to some surprises and have decided to do so because social change requires a proper response to the sensitive development of the school space. The Constitution is being amended by a two-thirds majority of Members and Members, who unfortunately could not be provided by the Constitutional Commission in this case. It is a simple fact that the Constitutional Court in its decision 2014 distinguishes between the compulsory and extended work of the primary education programme. Anyone who doesn't believe it or doesn't want to believe that he should read the exact 25th point of the sentence. However, the weakness of this part of the content in the Constitutional Decision results in different interpretations of how to understand the compulsory and extended curriculum of primary education and what it contains. In the SMC Group, we do this not arbitrarily as some of the right-wing groups, but we have relied on the legislation in force. Let me stress that we have never objected to the full financing of the mandatory part of the programme, to which we are guided by the Constitutional Court's decision. As can be seen from the magnetogram of the first reference of the 33rd regular meeting of the Committee on Education, the Legislative and Legal Service has also attached this to it, and I quote: "The law provides for a different amount of funding for the compulsory work of the publicly applicable primary education programmes in public and private schools. Therefore, in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is also implementing a Constitutional Court decision based on the finding that the content of the compulsory part of a publicly valid primary education programme is uniformly established for all operators.” How, then, can we talk about the fact that with the proposed law, that we really whistle at court decisions and who really doesn't do math here? Let us recall once again that only the Constitutional Court has placed a gap between the mandatory and extended part of the programme and that a new clause of Article 86, where the compulsory part is financed in full, is also appropriate, as assessed by the legislator. Right now, it's nothing. Based on this disqualification, formula 165 proposed by the amendment by the Group of Twelve Members and Members of the SMC still implements the Constitutional Court decision, without prejudice to the rights already acquired which touch the financing and thus do not constitute an additional burden on the public budget. This is a fact that some want to wrap up in bartering with percentages. It is true that respected colleagues from the SDS have already tabled a bill in the parliamentary procedure on several occasions, which they believe would be "to comply fully with the Constitutional Court's decision", and they are, of course, assisted by the New Slovenia Group. But in the same breath, they forget that their solution to discrimination would not end, as a private school for a fully funded programme for parents would still be able to charge school fees. We leave this assessment to citizens and citizens. The amendments to today's novel are used to end the automatism of funding, exacerbate the conditions that schools must fulfil to obtain funding from public funds, including by ensuring that students and students are enrolled regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, education, disability or any other circumstance. There has been a lot of discussion about this and today you have an opportunity for egalitarians to be able to support it. The possibility of withdrawing the public programme is introduced if it is established that a school implementing the programme and obtaining public funds is in breach of certain provisions relating to clearly defined objectives of education and education in our country and requires that it be clearly defined in the process of obtaining entry into force how and with what content the private school programme actually contributes to the enrichment of school space and programme diversity; that is, all that our educational space is indispensable for changing social circumstances. In the SMC Group of Members, we will not support the amendments you tabled in the SDS and New Slovenia Group of Members, and we will vote on the amendment of the Group of 12 Members and Members of the SMC in our own conscience. Regardless of the outcome of the vote on the amendment, we will fully support the law and vote in favour and thus end the Calvary of Understanding the Relationship between Public and Private Education, which over 25 years has been a field of political debate and too few professional discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u17	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In the SDS, we do not agree to disrespect the Constitution and do not consent to bartering through constitutional decisions, which is what the coalition or the majority part of Parliament is doing today. A colleague told me to read Article 25 of the Constitutional Decision, which he spoke, “... The right to attend a compulsory public education programme free of charge does not require the State to finance the implementation of superstandard or extended programmes with which private schools pursue their partisan interests. The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution therefore requires that the compulsory minimum of basic education, which is uniformly determined by content, be publicly financed, but does not include the financing of additional content which depends on the value of the orientations of individual primary education providers.” This means that your amendment will finance an extended private school programme that follows the partisan interests of private schools. This means that your amendment finances subject Vera and culture in private school because this subject Vera and culture is part of an extended private school programme that follows the partial interests of a private school. And what you are doing is completely misleading the public; that is, primary education is compulsory for all public and private schools implementing this programme and covers a compulsory and extended programme. However, the extended programme includes morning protection, additional complementary activities and activities of interest. However, this extended programme, which is compulsory for all schools implementing the publicly applicable programme, does not include subjects which are part of an extended programme that pursues the interests of private schools. And your deception is just in the word an extended primary school program. Therefore, the publicly applicable programmes under the Basic School Act cover the compulsory part, which includes mathematics, physics, technology, Slovenian and so on, and the expanded part of which they belong, i.e. once again, supplementary education, morning protection, interesting activities. Then you also have an additional or partial extension, where there are items that are not financed from public funds and cannot be financed from public funds following a decision of the Constitutional Court, either in private or in a public school. Once again, the Constitutional Court said in Article 25 that the State, no, is not obliged to finance the partisan extended cases. So it is not necessary to finance religion and culture, it is not necessary to finance a verukkah and so on, and we have never advocated this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we have advocated that, to the extent of compulsory and widespread work, the public programme is financed 100 % for all schools implementing the public programme, regardless of who the founder is, which is very important. In fact, all schools, irrespective of who is the founder of a publicly valid programme to the extent of compulsory and extended work, bring children to a publicly valid certificate, which then applies to schools or secondary schools to which they wish. So, this is the greatest deception we have received today by coalition parties and those who advocate and advocate for fair financing. This baring from zero per cent to 100 per cent to 85, 65 is anyway very much I can't find a word for it; it's like we're on the Turkish market. [[…]] The next trick we listen to is to demarcate public and private education. Public and private education is already demarcated today. The State does not finance private schools which do not implement public programmes. The country does not finance a private British school in Ljubljana because it does not implement a publicly valid primary school programme. The following deception we have heard and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we do not agree that private schools implementing the public programme do not have children with special needs. You can read, there are 38 students with special needs at Anton Šustřar Elementary School, 20 children with decisions for additional professional assistance, 18 students with adjustments and so on. That there are no children from socially weak families here. Yes, that is why 38% of children in Šuštar have a subsidised lunch and in Montessora has more than 50%. That there are funds that raise money for social weaknesses. With these amendments, this law will do exactly what you say today — that these schools are elite. This will also take away those children who are socially weak so that they can go to school. And it is not true that only those who want to enter private schools, even those who have a specific environment, can be enrolled in private schools. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not agree to this law and not to what has been adopted on the Committee, so we will not confirm this law. However, we call on all to support our amendment, which provides 100 per cent of the funding of a public programme, regardless of who is the founder of the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you. A beautiful greeting to all in the hall and also to those who may accompany us! We have a law ahead of us that has long triggered violent reactions in public. However, everything revolves only around the financing of private primary schools. This is understandable, for it is a matter of separation between public and private, and this always opens the field of ideological warfare. And that's too bad. The law is well prepared and also needed, as the legislation currently in force no longer meets the needs of time and space. We need a new marriage, and let me say that we will support it now. Why do we feel that marriage is necessary — because it introduces news? It gives the Ministry a new mandate to designate the providers of educational programmes, i.e. private schools which have become public schools, on the basis of the criteria laid down by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The government will have to take into account, in addition to the number and age of pupils in a specific area, the specificity of the area and the developmental specificities of the area, the programme diversity of the educational programme which allows parents to choose. There is also a requirement to verify whether the proposed programme contributes to the enrichment of school space and whether it allows parents to choose. This has not been the case so far, so the amendment of the law is good and, after all, it is necessary to upgrade the legislation currently in force. Let me get back to what I'm doing best to finance. It is quite amazing how many responses this law has demanded in Slovenian society, which in fact regulates a lot more than just funding, and that is not right. This marriage is more than that. It is very important for us to point out that the proposal distinguishes between publicly applicable programmes implemented only by public institutions and private institutions with concessions and programmes with recognised public validity. The proposed novel therefore sets a clear distinction between public and private, as we have always advocated in Desus. It is right that there is a choice, because diversity enriches us. But with such a high-quality and accessible public network, we see no reason for the state to fund both private and public schools equally. It may sound chewy, but here again I ask you, is there any interest in a private school to organize a school in Osilnica, Lovrence on Pohorje or in the White landscape? No, no, no. Of course, there is no such interest. Children from rural areas do not have the same rights as those from Ljubljana and Maribor. It was this thinking that led us to draw up the supplement adopted on the home working body, which is that the country would fund a 100 % mandatory programme, but not an extended one. This seems best for us because there must be a clear border between public and private. We advocate this in health care as well as in education. It should also be pointed out that children do not need to be visited to obtain the certificate of the extended programme, and here we follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, which says that the compulsory programme, namely the programme which the child is required to visit, is financed by 100 % and remains in the legislator's domain. Of course, new complements have now emerged with regard to the financing of private primary schools; one would finance all, and the other would finance 65% in the extended programme. At the Desus Party, we don't just change our position in three days. We are a party to tradition and our commitment to the rights of the social state is clear and publicly expressed. We believe in common good, public systems and equal opportunities for all. You know, only public schools accept all children, are free, accessible to all, extremely quality. For all of this we will not support any of the amendments, because we believe that our solution is the most just. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. A respected minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, we have an extremely important content, and I suggest that you provide perhaps a large school board before the debate starts, and it may also be digital to explain the definitions to us by the Minister, who is an excellent teacher. We're not in a common coordination platform today. Today, some of you are talking about financing private schools. Hello! That's not even a topic. Mr President, we must first, as I have been taught, and I have always gladly accepted this in mathematics or physics on definitions – what are we talking about today? Are we talking about private school funding? We're not talking about that. Please, Mr President, to have the Minister explain to everyone, I think we understand what a public school is, what are state schools or schools established by a local community or co-founder – for example, if a bilingual school is, for example, a Hungarian national community – and what a private school is. So what's what's public? Indeed, in Novi Slovenija we stand for the public school system and public health and so on. We cannot have a quality debate, Mr President, if these builders are not precisely defined by the atoms of this debate. Please set a coordinated starting point and let the Minister – once again, an excellent teacher – explain these building blocks to us. I think I've made myself clear, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u23	You were clear enough, although I don't understand what to do on this basis, because even if such a coordination system existed, everyone would still say what he wants to say and define in the way he wants to define it. That way, everyone will have the opportunity to say what they have to say in the debate. But I wouldn't judge the quality of the debate, because I'm also going to participate in this debate. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not that kind of thing. We're moving on to the debate. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, because it's not serious, because it's not gonna help. It's not helping. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2017. I am putting to the debate article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and Members with the first signed by Mrs Urško Ban. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. My fellow Member highlighted the real problem of today's debate. Again, you say that the state is not obliged to finance private schools. In this case, the State does not finance a private school, but rather a compulsory, publicly applicable compulsory programme. So a private school provides a building, organisation, and so on, but the program that is being implemented must be paid by parents with tuition. The payment of the additional programme shall be justified. However, what is mandatory and prescribed by the State and this programme is compulsory, it is also right that the State is funding. That was decided by the Constitutional Court. So don't fool around. In Desus' position, our solution was the most just. An amendment was adopted on the Committee to 100 % for the compulsory part and nothing for the extended part. And I don't think you even know what this extended part is. This is morning protection, afternoon care, additional teaching aid when children even receive decisions to be eligible for additional learning aid. Of course, not all children do because they do not need all this. Everyone doesn't need morning protection either. But the difference is that the state prescribes that everyone should have it at their disposal and that it is paid by the state, and then parents have to pay for it in private school after your decision, and the child has a decision to have it at his disposal. Such deceptions are many and too many, but see, as I have already said in my position, in Nova Slovenije we are used to not reacting or supporting our decisions, unfortunately if they are so justified and good. But this isn't about New Slovenia. It is about punishing the parents of these children, our citizens who have just decided that this programme being implemented there is in line with their needs; what they want in the upbringing process for their children. And that's how they're entitled. My children are not in these schools, nor are my grandchildren yet, but I am talking about the parents who have this right and these schools are enriching the Slovenian space with new pedagogical approaches. And I'll point out something else. Look, very few Members of the Modern Centre Party are sitting here now, but Mr President is also a member of this party. You were largely elected for the promise of your President, who said he would act in accordance with the law so that this country would be legal and ethical. Last April, your president visited St. Stanislav's Office in Shentvid. What did he promise there? Somehow he said that he was even embarrassed or something that hadn't yet been fulfilled How did he say? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Unhappily, the decision of the Constitutional Court has not yet been complied with and this needs to be regulated. And all of you — whether the President has changed this position now and thus made false promises not to speak with any other words, or you do not follow him and you have put him in such a delicate position that he cannot fulfill what he has promised. He's talking about the state of law. There's a lot of lawyers in your client's office, and I'm surprised that you're all just cheering on the Constitutional Court ruling. Mr President is very committed to human rights. That's very good. In this case, are not the human rights of these parents, for whom the Constitutional Court has decided that the State is obliged to pay the publicly applicable primary school programme because the primary school is compulsory? However, if you agree to blackmail coalition partners, it is also sad that you are willing to overstep your promises, overwhelm your President's positions, act unconstitutionally and withdraw the right to pay the compulsory primary school program to our or the children who are studying there, and to their parents, and thus effectively introduce inequality and it is not a social state. Only those in the wealthier families will be able to afford to go to school there. Now we have heard many times that these schools are not exactly attended by children from very wealthy families. Because in Montessora the program more than 50 percent of children receive subsidised school meals and also in the primary school of Aloise Šuštar 34 percent. So these are not wealthy children or parents. Therefore, once again, honourable fellow Members and Members, the Legislative and Legal Service itself has pointed out on the Committee: each reduction of these standards means the non-constitutionality of the new law because the rights already acquired are withdrawn. Many of you are lawyers, I think you understand that even more. So please, if you reconsider. Do not put yourself in the position of your minister, your president, who wants to act ethically, who wants the rule of law, and support the amendment on 100% financing of the entire programme that the state prescribes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u25	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much. In fact, the debate that just took place by the respected Ludmila Novak was really expected because we have been listening to similar views in reality since April this year, for example. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the presentations and also to say why I will not support the amendment proposed both in the SDS Group and in New Slovenia. Because equating, completely equalising public and private education funding, programmes, if you want, means actually going to the Vacharian system. This is something that I cannot conceptually agree with, because it is really the privatisation of the primary school system. We can talk today about the decisions of the Constitutional Court, about legislation, we are really talking about the collision of two concepts. Whether we want to understand the school space in Slovenia as if the state provides public education and allows private education as an addition to it, because it is necessary, in accordance with international guidelines, to enrich school space – on the one hand. Or, on the other hand, that one day, because this is just the first step, what we are talking about today, about equalizing the program, one day we will wake up citizens and have a privatized school system in front of us. That's really what we're talking about today. As regards the decision of the Constitutional Court. The decision of the Constitutional Court was very clear, and the Legislative and Legal Service also stated that, in the event that the compulsory part of the programme is fully financed, the decision of the Constitutional Court should also be complied with. The Constitutional Court merely distinguished between compulsory and widespread work. Why? Because the 25th paragraph of the sentence also followed the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which made it very clear by the three decisions that the State is not even obliged to finance private education with a cent. However, since our Constitution states that primary education is compulsory, the Constitutional Court also stated on the basis of the 25th paragraph of the sentence that the State must provide a compulsory minimum of primary education, which means a compulsory programme in both public and private schools. The extended programme is not something we would now be discussing arbitrarily, what is part of the extended programme, what is not part of the extended programme. The extended program is very clearly defined in the Basic School Act. We can't just sort of talk about how we imagine what the extended program is and what it isn't. And respectable colleague Ludmila Novak, when we talk about children's rights when we talk about the supplementary programme, because today these children or their parents are already paying for the extended programme because today private education funding is not 100% funded. And if the Constitutional Court has said that the distinction between public and private education is in widespread work when we talk about primary education, then it is simply necessary to look at what is part of compulsory education and what is really an extended programme. This is very clearly stated in the Basic School Act. This is not something the Ministry would invent or make up Members of the SMC, Desus and so on. We have a law in force that standardises the compulsory and extended part, and we have a decision by the Constitutional Court saying what the state is obliged to ensure. It is necessary to provide full compulsory work funding, because this is the part on which children who go to public school and to this private school bring home the same certificate. That's all. It was therefore also the idea that the compulsory part should be fully financed, but it could also be nothing, because in fact the Constitutional Court ruled that it was in the opinion of the legislator how it would decide how much it would finance the extended route. The amendment, which appears by the 12 Members who speak of concept 165, does not speak of us not understanding the delimitation of compulsory or extended work, but is only complicated by the fact that financing 100: 0 would actually reduce funds for those schools and amendment 165 merely provides the exact same funding as it has been so far. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u27	Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! If we're in a position we're in right now, I think there's two reasons. This is a misunderstanding of terminology, or everyone has his own explanation for the different terms and in the uncertainty of the constitutional decision. This is, in my opinion, ambiguity — or so I will say: in how someone reads a constitutional decision. I'll explain what I mean. Before I define myself to all of this, I would like to say what I have to do as a person of private law to set up a private school, and what are the mandatory things I have to ensure. So first, I have to have a space to implement in all standards and regulations, then by means of an act establishing a private school, define the content and scope of the programme, which then goes into the validation process of the professional council. Of course, I have to take into account the compulsory objectives of education and education under Article 2 of the ZOFVI, I have to provide an equivalent educational standard or minimum knowledge when it comes to school with special educational principles, and if I want the school to be eligible for funding under Article 86 of the naturally valid ZOFVI, I must ensure that the programme is implemented by employed teachers in accordance with the legislation. When I get all this together; that is, when the expert board confirms that the public programme has become public, then of course I start implementing the programme in my private school. Can I change anything in the implementation or implementation of the programme, supplement it, any adaptation? Of course, the Basic School Act also makes it clear which things or parts do not apply to private schools but are applicable to public schools. I'm just going to count a few because we've heard them many times. Private school does not have to take into account a ministerial school calendar; private school does not require departmental classes. Public school has to enroll students from its own environment, not private. For private schools, the third subject in the NPZ is the default first foreign language. And there are some other things like that that private school can adapt to. Of course, I looked at the subject and, say, the program implemented by private schools in Slovenia. Of course they don't. They have the same or similar programme as public schools; public schools set up by the State. However, if I do not carry out the programmes within this private school in accordance with the objectives of education and education, at this point the Government or the Ministry has no leverage to prevent this private school from operating in any way, the implementation of the programme. Nor do I, as the founder of a private school, need to hire teachers, all teachers, for full-time work and do not have to take into account the same entry conditions as those applicable to public schools. This is precisely why the two amendments, which are in fact the same – the SDS and New Slovenia amendments – cannot be supported; because, apart from the share of funding, the content remains the same as in the current ZOFVI – therefore, Article 86 does not change in essence in other environments and the novelty brings changes in this area, in addition to the share of funding. Next thing. He understands how I read the Constitutional Court decision – and I am not the only one, of course – and how he defines the mandatory and extended programme of the Basic School Act and the Constitutional Court decision. This concept of compulsory program and the concept of extended program lays down the Basic School Act. I couldn't find any explanation for that concept in any other submarital act. So if we use this term anywhere, we're probably looking for its basis or its definition in the Basic School Act. It clearly states that the mandatory programme includes compulsory subjects, optional subjects and classes of the departmental community and an extended programme, as we have heard – extended stay, morning protection, supplementary education, additional education, interesting activities and teaching of optional selection content. This is a legal provision. I now read a constitutional decision or explanation in the Constitutional Decision: "The content of the compulsory public education programme, funded by public funding, is uniformly established for all operators." End of quote. So I read a mandatory public programme or, of course, I understand it as one defined in the law. Furthermore, I quote, "... this stems from the pursuit of the same objectives of education and education, equivalent educational standards, equal conditions for professional workers, space, equipment as provided for in Article 104 of the ZOFVI, the same use of textbooks, the law of certain compulsory subjects and the same limitation of wages." Here I would just like to point out one inconsistencies in this explanation, as Article 104, paragraph 1, provides that the conditions laid down for professionals in public schools and schools should also be met by professional workers in private schools and schools, primary schools implementing publicly valid programmes and acquired ones, but the provision of the first paragraph does not apply to those professional workers who study in programmes according to specific teaching principles. So this is actually kind of released in explanation. Next, this part, the extended programme, which is essentially mentioned so many times in these debates, and the most important part of the explanation in the decision I understand so, quote part of the decision, »... The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution requires that a compulsory minimum of basic education be publicly financed, which is uniformly determined by content, which does not cover the financing of additional content" and so on. What do I have to do with basic education? The part that a student in primary school must attend, which is a compulsory program. So I find that we read differently and understand the concepts defined in the decision and reasoned by the Constitutional Court. Last but not least, we're on the 9th. 10. Members received a letter signed by the heads of private schools and the presidents of the parental council, and as I understood it, I mean, I also understand their position, I quote, “... the representatives of private schools cooperated with comments that were partly taken into account in the formation of the law. We support the law's proposal as the best possible compromise, for, on the one hand, it imposes an indisputable part of the constitutional decision on the financing of the regular programme, while at the same time it does not change the financing of the extended programme, so-called formula 100 : 85." This was the initial proposal of the Ministry of Education. So this delimitation of mandatory and widespread was, in my opinion, understood by them as well. Of course, the novelties of the law, as we have heard before, also require other very needed, necessary and positive changes made by primary education, but not only primary school, but also the entire verticals of higher education need: greater transparency in the appointment procedures and the reduction of corruption risks in appointment, then a modern conceptual change in preschool education is realized – that is to say, by naming the assistant educator as the tutor of preschool children, the assistant educator – and other changes that are needed. That is why I cannot support the amendments of the members of the New Slovenia Group and the SDS, but I will support the amendment that we have drafted in the Modern Centre Party and absolutely also the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u29	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u30	Dear Members and Members! Looks like it's gonna be an extremely hot topic. The problem with this debate is that, as already Parliamentary colleague Horvat said, we are not all on the same coordination system and that some simply - I think - deliberately, deliberately say different things than the real ones. This debate, particularly the opposition part, I will say neo-socialists, used to collect cheap socialist political points, goes like this; you are the ugly one because you want the state to finance something private because it means profit in private, and someone will put it in your pocket. It's kind of coming out of your debates. But that's a long way from the truth. Various debates have developed on various networks, and one of them was that we want to, for example, as if there was a private taxi driver, that the country now has to pay the driver's taxi. I use taxis precisely because there was a very dynamic debate on this subject yesterday. But if we want to pull an analogy with a taxi service to today's debate, I'd say the following. If, God forbid, the State provided us with a constitution that we must all ride taxis, that we must all use taxis to get from point A to point B, all that the Constitutional Court has now said is that the State has to pay for this taxi and whether the taxi is state or private. It is only essential to bring you from point A to point B. And most likely, because some of you are looking unusually, and that wasn't a very good explanation, I'm going to try to explain the coordinates even more. I would say we have three different primary schools in Slovenia. We have state schools and these state schools are building municipalities, the state and these state schools are implementing a programme that is prescribed by the state. In addition, we have private schools built by a private person, various organizations, societies, companies — whatever. In these private schools we have two types; one is private schools that implement the public programme, and the other is private schools that fully implement their program, whatever they want. We don't talk about these private schools that run their own program. Today we are talking only about schools that are implementing a publicly applicable programme. Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that primary school is compulsory. It's mandatory! In some ways, the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that what the State has laid down must also be financed by the State, regardless of whether it is taught behind the walls built by the congregation or behind the walls built by a private person. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court. In these decisions of the Constitutional Court, one more thing must be added, which is very often misleading that the Constitutional Court has decided twice differently on the same matter. That's not true. You're deceiving! In 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled on the financing of primary education, and in 2001 the Constitutional Court ruled on confessional activities in public educational institutions. Two very different things, and even more, from 2001, stated that the issue of financing is not defined at all. I don't understand how you feel about those who claim that the Constitutional Court has ruled twice on the same matter. Well, read your papers! The next such thing, which is also being used very effectively, is that OK, if you have already accepted this, that what the state has prescribed needs to be financed, then here we now have a difference between the mandatory programme and the extended programme. [[…]] As far as mandatory program is concerned, we all know that it is a class study, mathematics, biology, English, sport and so on. You also agree with the neo-socialists that in private schools implementing the public programme, this should be financed 100%. Progress, certainly positive. Then we get to the extended program. However, an extended programme in those with a public programme means extended stay, morning protection, interesting activity, teaching aid, complementary and additional education. Complementary and additional instruction! Now, you tell me, say, in particular, Mr Jurša, why the same complementary or additional education, which was funded at a school built by the State, is at some school set up by someone else, must not be financed, although it is the same thing. As mayor, Ambassador Jurša should know that such a private person has benefited the congregation. In Kamnik we built a new elementary school — 3, 4, millions of euros worth such an investment and you are grateful if someone else makes that investment for you, you build a school, and you can put a program in place of you. This has happened in these cases. And I don't understand why you say that there should be no extended stay, morning protection and interesting activities in these schools. Desus came with an amendment that this should not be financed anything. It is precisely those who, as socially sensitive, should understand that, in particular, complementary and additional education needs the most vulnerable, most sensitive learners, and should absolutely support this, but not suggest anything. Then we come to, say, such finte on the left, which is served by Member Tabakovic, who says that the Constitutional Court has clearly distinguished between the fact that OK, the mandatory programme can be financed, but the extended programme cannot be financed. [[…]] However, it does not say that the Constitutional Court has made a cap – see what it says: “The expanded programme with which private schools pursue their interests in the field.” Ambassador Tabakovic, indeed, the Constitutional Court said that the State “does not need to pay for the extended programme” – the comma – “with which private schools pursue their partisan interests.” Member Tabakovic, we agree, too, but it is necessary to make a difference that there is also a difference in the extended programme; there is an extended programme to be held by state schools, and as I said, these are extended stay, morning protection, interesting activity and so on, this must be financed. However, I agree with you that that extended programme, which private schools have because of their partisan interests, is not. But, you know, you imagine that the whole extended program is some private partial interest in these schools. That's not true! Let's move on. You're talking about how six private schools are going to threaten 767 state schools and how we have them today, I don't know, six, tomorrow we're going to have ten, and tomorrow I don't know how many. Come on, be at least that honest and say that simply these private schools with a public programme will not be far off because the state places public validity. I know. I'm running out of time. In short, I just wanted to say this because they say that private schools with a public programme do not have the same working conditions – but they do, because it makes it very clear that teachers' salaries are the same under the Public Wage System Act and the Collective Contract, that they were also subject to the ZUJF and so on. And the last thing I'd like to say is that you're saying that you don't have to take all these people to private schools. So you're saying that now these private schools have an elite who can attend these schools. But, look, the new ZOFVI clearly states that these schools must not discriminate against students in their personal circumstances, not in their talent and similar ways. In short, these private schools, which have a public programme, are also public. I conclude, however, that the coalition, and especially the SMC, has agreed on a crazy plot. Do you have any idea how they are now proposing to implement the constitutional decision in the SMC? So far we've had 85:85; 85 mandatory, 85 extended, this is the current arrangement. Now they're proposing 100 and 65. If you add this together, then ask yourself how many elementary schools are going to get, you come to the conclusion that they will get what they get today. Now, my dears, I ask you what this is like to realize the Constitutional Court's decision to pass such a law that nothing changes. A little bit of morgen!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u31	Replica, first of all Mr Saša Tabaković, because he was before.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I have to replicate because, of course, we have listened to how, in the parliamentary group or perhaps I, we do not understand sufficiently the Constitutional Court's decision and how the Government has drawn up an unconstitutional law. On the other hand, I wonder if I or the coalition, the Ministry, are deceiving the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has made it very clear what the actual application of the Constitutional Court decision means. That's one. I also have to replicate my colleague Tonin here. In fact, there is something very interesting about his debate. When it comes to the definition of a mandatory programme, of course it fully agrees, but when it comes to the definition of an extended programme, there is some perplexity here, although it is in fact the same law, by actually defining a compulsory work for which article is not known, but the next article defining an extended programme is the article. My colleague Tonin interprets this extended part in his own way, I have already said in my position that we understand the extended part as it is written in the existing legislation, and thus I do not really understand this situation, so that it can be understood within the same law In fact, my colleague Tonin somehow does not fully understand – or very well understand. [[…]] This is really a problem that very well understands what is compulsory, what is an extended part – by not being suited to the definition of extended work, but of course it is not a problem of ZOFVI, it is then probably a complicated Law on Primary School. However, if that is the case with the enlarged part, then I would like to invite Mr Tonin to explain to me what those partial interests of a private school are within an extended programme which is not supposed to be financed by public funds, and in which part of the law these partial interests are also well mentioned. Because if, of course, we want to talk precisely, given that we are a legislative body, of course, colleague Tonin will be very likely to explain this perfectly. Thank you very much. That's all I'm saying. I'm sorry. Because we know very well that confessional activity is prohibited in law schools anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u33	Now, Comrade Jurša, you will have to apply because you have not yet discussed it, it was just a position. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. So, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'm asking you to sign up, because there's still a lot of interest. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u34	Today, when we consider the Law on Financing for Education and Education in Primary School, I am convinced that we all want to have a good education, that we want the best for our children and that we want our parents, after all, everything good for the teachers who teach in these schools. The same rights. It is understandable that the State prescribes the number of hours in each class in the first triad, the second triad, and the third triad. We fully agree on this, but it is not something for me — that there is a basic and widespread part to be shared. I expect my child to be just as valuable and legally owned as someone who attends a school that has a publicly valid program. Nice to meet you. If the child is sick, he needs two, three days of supplementary schooling at any school. This is financed in a public school from a state or local budget, because it is provided by local communities and it must be paid by parents themselves. Are we even? Do all children have the opportunity to have the same quality of education? Do they? After what you say, no! And you want to lower it after what happened to your amendment. It seems to me that it is extremely inappropriate to treat children after extended work and say that this is for a supplement in a school that has a publicly valid programme, for example, morning protection. Morning protection is compulsory funding by introducing a nine-year-old. Yes! It's in the law. Look at you! You've misread the law. Morning first-class protection must be provided under the law for children aged 6 years and even fewer who have to go to school. Why does someone who decides to put into school with a public programme have to pay for this morning's protection? Do we all have the same right to education? We don't have them. We don't all have the same rights. And it seems to me that with all this you want: for the first time, discipline your parents, because everyone is sensitive after being hit by a pocket, by a wallet, and on the other hand also by teachers, which I find extremely inappropriate. Who carries out extended stay, morning care, additional assistance, supplementary assistance in public schools? Last but not least, what about the children who have decisions with special needs? How will this be done in schools with a public programme? Will their parents have to pay for them? Since there is also an hour, two, three, depending on the needs – it is determined by law, the system is determined. You're saying that this is going to fall out, that it's an extended program that some school will have with a publicly valid program. And you're doing amazing I mean, the desperate situation between the public service program and during a public school, I can say, with us in Cerknica. [[…]] Who's running the programs? Most of the time they carry out programmes concerning activities of interest, morning care or extended stay, teachers who are employed and who lack an hour to full pay. Most of the time, within the school, it's like this, who's going to see who's coming in the morning if he's missing an hour? Or you can give music or some interesting, singing choir, someone who lacks one or two hours to full pay or a full teacher’s program. That's what you say, yes, in public schools, yes, but not with a public program. So you want to discipline teachers. This is the purpose, discipline as you used to be, but I believe that people understand that we live in a democratic country and that democracy also brings the same rights for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u35	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today's debate has opened with a statement or series of arguments that have been translated into the same point: that we do not know what we are actually talking about. That a public program is one thing and there is a word that private schools are something else and that we cannot talk about private schools here, because – up and down. [[…]] I mean, if public funds are found on the TRD from a private school, then how do we talk about the promotion of private education, because it gets money, public money, citizen money collected by the state with taxes and therefore must be allocated to the public social benefit. In the school case, however, the social benefit is a public school network under public control, which pursues some very clear objectives to reduce differences, class, layered differences, differences in cultural capital and so on between people, between children coming from different stratified environments. That he doesn't discriminate about taking everyone. These are all provisions that the private school does not respect or respect. In short, the debate before us is a debate between public and private, between public schools and private schools. Come in. There was a claim on the air, even a lapsus, about eligible supplements for supplementary programmes. See, no payment or payment in the school system is justified. Even textbooks and work volumes that are not now free should be free of charge and only then will we be able to talk about complete public education. That's the real problem, not that private schools get too little money! They also receive little money from public schools, but now there are few private ones with their purely specific ideological observations. Further, society should be grateful if someone comes into a particular local environment and with a few million, 3, 4 or more million there put a school there. Hey, if someone has that kind of money under their finger, it means that taxes are too low for him, especially in today's context when public schools are underfunded, social assistance, public health and so on. But there's somewhere to be – what? A good uncle who has drawn millions and millions of euros out of nowhere, and his neighbor is on social, say, and he's going to invest in some separate ideological apparatus, and we're going to be able to thank him for that? More than that, all the money for the operation of this ideological apparatus should be given to him by the state. It's out of the question! In short, what is introduced by the gradual killing of private education into small public money is a two-tier school system that distinguishes between rich and poor. One school system for those who have something under their thumb and are true religious confessions, and another discriminating criterion is found in between, and another school system for everything else. Of course, this school system for paradise can be poor, it can be whatever it is, it is important that the elite have its own top level. In Slovenia, inequality is growing, this is an indisputable fact, and this inequality is also known among others in the school system and in reading literacy. Before I spoke, when I was representing the position of the leftist Group, I gave you a survey from 2016. For a third, the difference in reading literacy between children from poor families and children from privileged families has increased. This is this classy and layered inequality and different cultural capital that I was talking about a few minutes ago. This is wrong and this is not right, but this is due to all the destructive capitalism that the school can only cushion. However, inequality can only be eliminated by eliminating capitalism that breeds it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u37	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! We have been discussing this law for a long time, first in the committees, of course also here in the National Assembly. In fact, there has been nothing new today, but perhaps in the beginning a little bit about the purpose of the law itself. The law itself was not intended only to finance private and public schools, it is, of course, the one thing that has fallen into each other's eyes, and this is actually being discussed all the time. In the beginning, however, the minister said the breadth, the broader meaning of this law, which would be good for us to adopt today. Somehow, if I limit myself to some points. That this law, for which it would be good to adopt it, is now being prepared to somehow better regulate the establishment of primary schools than it used to be. Now we're talking about six primary schools that are private. If these matters were legal — in the past when these schools were being established — there would be no problems now. But it wasn't like that. That is why we also have very different funding, depending on the years and how they were established. This is very important. This law also regulates this, so it would be good in the long run to support this law today, as these things will be dealt with differently in the future. What does this marriage bring? This law brings us programming diversity, that's fine, I think we all want it; both those who advocate this law and those who oppose it. The regulation of appointment of directors is also a very important area covered by this law. I've been in school for a long time myself, and I know these things haven't been as arranged as they should have been, and there's been a lot of trouble. It also regulates the work of tutors and assistants in kindergarten. I would say that we must look at this law a little wider, for the sake of the child and, of course, for the country. If we look around the world a little bit, we can see that funding is very different; either in the buildings themselves, or then in the salaries of staff or teachers working in education, that this is very different. One thing is for sure – one is primary school, the other is private. My opinion is, in fact, I have nothing against private schools, but state schools are certainly financed from the country and are intended for everyone; both those in large centres, cities such as Maribor, Ljubljana, and those in Koroška – earlier said in the White landscape and elsewhere. I'd love to have a private school in Koroška, too, but I don't think it will, because it's not an interesting area because there's not enough children. School districts were previously limited and so on for primary schools. Correct me if I say it wrong, but now those kids are supposed to be going to the elementary school that's in that school district. However, as far as I know, if someone places a child in another district, then the municipality is not obliged to finance the transport, as far as I know, whether it is in preparation or not, but this proposal has certainly been given. I know that because I once asked myself about it, so I know there's something on it. What is this mandatory programme and what is an extended route. This was also – I will not go into detail – very diverse also in constitutional judges because they ruled 5-4. I won't go into the details now, but if the judges are so different about how we or I are going to be, say, who I'm not a lawyer maybe would just refresh the amendments that followed. [[…]] The first proposal proposed by the Ministry of Education to be financed in addition to This is said to be 185 per cent mandatory and 85 per cent extended. [[…]] I am now speaking on my behalf not within the framework of the parliamentary group – I think this proposal is very good personally. Then, of course, it went to nothing. There has been some compromise in our parliamentary group of 65, which, of course, is better than nothing, and it is probably not the right solution, but some compromises at this point certainly are. However, I cannot agree with the amendment of New Slovenia and SDS – but I have no objection to private schools – that this would be 100 : 100. But I don't think I can defend this, because in that extended program, there are still some of the content that is adapted and adapted by the founder, which somehow works or builds, teaches a little differently, and we also gain at the value of the school. Of course, I will support the amendment of the Modern Centre Party, which talks about financing 100:65. But I'll also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u39	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! As part of today's debate on the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, however, it is important to stress in particular the fact that we have a complete network of public primary schools in Slovenia. If this network is not established, then, of course, a solution must be sought and if we find that we cannot provide it from public funds, it is very welcome and, in fact, the only solution to fill this gap in private schools. However, the starting point is that we have a complete network of public primary schools. From here on, it raises questions that should not last be cleared by the Court of Auditors alone, which is responsible for overseeing the use of public funds or of all public expenditure. Look, when we have a public network perfect in primary schools, of course you have to finance it after the stop, because primary school is compulsory. If we add another parallel network to this complete network, built by private schools, then the issue of the usefulness of spending public funds is raised. Whether we can finance from public funds, despite the fact that the public network is complete, we can also finance a parallel private network that is implementing the public programme. Not according to my understanding of the use of public funds. It would be quite interesting to see the Court of Auditors' position if it were to assess the usefulness of spending public funds, given that we have a full public network in primary schools. The drafter of the law on financing education and education was also aware of this when he entered this law, but despite what I have said, it is possible to finance private schools implementing public programmes of 85 per cent. I think it was already very controversial at the time by the use of public funds, but the decision was taken, it was legal, but the applicant also gave the guardian in article 87 of the Education and Education Financing Act of that time, which is still in force today. This is to protect the public network, which says that regardless of the 86th article of the law we are discussing, "private schools do not belong to public funds if admission to a private school threatens the existence of the only public primary school or threatens the existence of the only public music school in the same school environment". The last paragraph of this Article, in the protection of the public network, “a private school financed by public funds shall, in the case referred to in the first paragraph of this Article”, which I have quoted, “require from financing under the jurisdiction of a decision issued by a minister”. This is the security guard who was incorporated into the law at the time, and it is clear that if the organisation of a parallel private network would result in the shutting down of public primary schools, private school would cease to be financed. And if we have this in front of our eyes, then all of these dilemmas that we're talking about today, and we're looking for variants, I don't know, 100: 85, 100: 0, or 100 privately and so on. Therefore, I appeal that we should return to the starting point, we have a complete public network of primary schools, and everything else can then be financed, because the law was adopted and it is only to this extent, as the law did in that period, which is this 85 per cent, because the Constitution also protects the rights acquired. I think that it is also important to protect parents who have also enrolled their children in a private school in good faith because they believe that this private school can offer them something more than they can get in a public school in accordance with their expectations, beliefs. In short, they try to offer their child, at least according to their beliefs, significantly more and better conditions than they would otherwise have in public school. But from this point of view, when we come out and I said earlier that the network of primary schools is perfect and that everyone can enroll their child in this school, regardless of religion, sex, nationality, political affiliation, they can all enter their child into public school and, of course, we also finance it. However, if this private school is organised in parallel, it would be right on the part of this private school to parents that the founder, a private one, would cover the 15 percent that parents must pay at this very moment. That would be an adjustment to your parents' relationship. Unless this primary school has a complete network, of course, this relationship is different and it is welcome that we also finance this through public funds. But in Slovenia this is the fact that I have described, and we really need to be aware of it, and I also appeal to the founders of private schools to provide parents with an additional 15 per cent, as far as the co-financing of the public programme from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or the budgets of the municipalities, which also provide in one part funds for the functioning of primary schools. Here we can unify ourselves very quickly and all, I think, we can come to the conclusion very quickly that it is necessary, because the current law on financing has been adopted, but to supplement Article 57 of the Constitution in a way that allows the financing of those 85 per cent by adopting a specific law. In fact, the current Constitution in Article 57 does not at all allow for the adoption of a specific law to finance private schools. Article 57 currently in force does not allow this, and this amendment we are proposing actually legalises what has been adopted and preserves the rights acquired. All that remains is the search and prevention of one another or the politicization, which is never good in public education, especially in primary education, because it really has a very high reputation, a very high degree of trust among people and it is always necessary to have it in front of you. For if we remain in such a decision of the Constitutional Court, as is now valid, that we have to fund the public programme in private schools in the same percentage, then you must expect to receive proposals on the table that we will have in Slovenia primary schools organised as private persons in accordance with our national ownership. Every national community in Slovenia will be able to demand the implementation of the primary school programme and we will have to finance it if this decision remains in force by public means. The same goes for the race. Members of different races will be able to demand their primary school and will have to be financed from public funds. The same applies to sex, the same applies to language, the same applies to religion, and not least to political affiliation. Do you imagine that political parties would still go this way so that each political party would demand their own primary school, their own private school? Excuse me, what kind of Babylon would become in Slovenia if this were to begin? I only point out that all of these, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political affiliation, can educate their child in public primary school without any problems. Private schools, some working today, have a discretionary right or may choose to refuse admission of a child to this private primary school, for example, if this is not in accordance with their racial orientation, sexual orientation, language, religious orientation. This is what we need to be aware of when we discuss it. It is a very, very important topic, and if you have all this in front of you, it makes sense that the equipment to have a complete public network of primary schools, and any deviation from the financing of other networks is actually a reckless use of public funds, and we just have to maintain what is already, because it is also protected by the Constitution, and ask the founders of private schools to provide those 15 percent and burden the parents who have enrolled their children in their schools in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u41	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin by congratulating, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the democratic opposition of Venezuela, who received the eminent award of recognition of the Sahara for freedom of thought a few days ago. This is granted, as you know, every year by the European Parliament. Why? Because the European Parliament respects human rights. The National Assembly also adopted the Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in 1994. An integral part of this is Protocol No. 1, which states in the second article about the right to education, quote: "No one shall be deprived of the right to education. In carrying out tasks relating to education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to provide such education and education to their children, in accordance with their religious and philosophical beliefs." Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! We need at least 90 kilograms of ash to get to the bottom of what nonsense has already been adopted in this house only in this term. Yesterday — unconstitutionality, today you are going unconstitutionally over unconstitutionality. Please! Let us give parents priority; parents — what I have read. Let's give our parents a head start. Why did private schools arise, ladies and gentlemen? At the initiative of the parents. If you were listening to the radio early this morning, you could have heard it from a representative of Montessori School. If you have read or listened to Target, you have heard and heard from Mr. Globokar. Parents have given the initiative to private primary schools. I am against co-financing through public funds from private primary education. I'm against it because private primary education is made up of software, it's software, and from the building, from the infrastructure, it's hardware. However, I am only in favour of the public programme being financed equally from the State budget, whether it is carried out by a state school or by a private school. It would be really good, ladies and gentlemen, to read the full, twice, three times, four times, decision of the Constitutional Court. It's an old paper, four. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The fourth point, the explanations, this will sober you up. “The Government agrees with the initiative of the proposers and considers that the provision is contrary to the Constitution. It refers to Eurostat data which show that the private education rate in the Republic of Slovenia is minimal compared to other EU members and therefore considers that the existing legislation contested by the initiators does not actually allow private education in our country.” De facto does not allow private education in our home! "The Government considers that the principle of equality, while respecting the principle of the social state, ensures equal public financing of equal positions, i.e. public and all types of private schools which have a public programme." Who doesn't understand? And now that you're talking about the partisan interests pursued by private schools. And you expect these partial interests to be enshrined in the law now. Hello? I read the Constitutional Decision again, paragraph 25: "The right to attend the compulsory public school curriculum free of charge does not require the country to finance the implementation of superstandard or extended programmes with which private schools pursue their partisan interests." Of course not. It should be funded by the parents. Here, in the round of the 14th paragraph of the Explanation of one other decision of the Constitutional Court 68/98, I also sought this; the 14th paragraph of this second decision, 68/98. Note: “In the context of freedom of religion, the Constitution also grants parents the right to provide their children with religious education in accordance with their beliefs” is the third paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution. “This constitutional right of parents of the country obliges them to respect their religious beliefs in the field of school.” I don't have time to read you anything else. Take your time, and I strongly recommend that we first focus on the definitions that are essential for today's debate. I will, of course, support the amendment of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u43	Replica, Mr. Kordish. Here you go. You have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u44	I was mentioned as president of the Venezuelan Friendship Group, at least I was programmed to mention it. Comrade Horvat has now shown all his colors when congratulating the right opposition in Venezuela. Do you know what this right-wing opposition is doing there? He's setting fire to public schools! Do you know what else he's doing? Burns public health homes [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] and obstetrics and kills community activists. [[…]] Given that we are subject to slightly different standards of class combat than some Latin American, of course, the extreme right hand cannot afford such a thing on the streets. However, he similarly tries to do so through legislation. So, to burn everything that is public good, to choke, to cut off public finances, and to re-analyse these funds into completely private interests – just like the Venezuelan right opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u45	We return to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Mrs. Marinka Levičar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Competent and, of course, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I am glad that in our country there is a strong conscience on the left hand side, that public education and everything that is public must be strengthened. I also support this; both strengthening public health and public education. Public education must be accessible to all and public education is in fact accessible to all. But private education isn't available to everyone. Public education is also organised in places where there are three, four, five students, as it happened in Osilnica, for example. Private education doesn't follow that. This morning, as Mr. Horvat recalled, I listened to what Montessori’s representative, Montessori, said: “We will organize or organize our schools where the parents’ interest is.” That seems fine to me, but if only three, four parents have an interest in enrolling their students in Montessora school, I'm sure Montessori school can't organise this school, just like the public school does. Public education is good, but we must strive to make it better. I also took note of this analysis mentioned by my colleague Kordish, that there is an increasing gap in literacy between rich and poor children, and I am confident that we will do something in this regard in the field of public education. The novelty of this law, which we are considering today, needs to be supported because it brings a number of innovations, as my colleagues have already mentioned in the previous debates, so I do not feel it necessary to repeat these novelties. But I would like to repeat or highlight only those two that seem very important to me. Therefore, it will be verified that these programmes are in force and that, if schools do not implement them, this public programme can be taken away from these schools. I also find it very important to have criteria for the establishment of public schools, new private public schools. We don't have this yet, it's going to be arranged, and I think it's very important. It is true, as my colleagues have already mentioned before me, that the committee responsible for education on this novel has debated four times and, above all, all the discussions have revolved around this financing of private schools; what we are underway to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, we have really little touch on these other innovations, which are also important. However, I am pleased that in this debate, on our committee responsible, we have succeeded with the amendment proposed by Desus, and that this is now an integral part of this amendment to the law, so that only a compulsory part of private school education will be financed 100 per cent. I am convinced that this means respect for the constitutional provision. We are particularly concerned with respecting this constitutional decision, and Mr Horvath, my colleague in front of me, has pointed out the reasons for this constitutional decision. I would like to quote once again what the Constitutional Court has said about respect for Article 57 of the Constitution, “since the constitutional right to free compulsory primary school education of pupils is linked to their constitutional duty, public funding must be given to that primary school education which is compulsory for pupils.” I am convinced that this addition, or this amendment, which we have proposed in Desus, is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. But I also understand the right-wing colleagues who are proposing even more, and I think that this is their right and I would not discuss it. It is their right and desire to be financed even more than is required by a decision of the Constitutional Court. My view is that this provision of the Constitutional Court or decision is sufficient. This is what I think the bill that is proposed today - and I hope that we will adopt it - is also written down and implemented. Therefore, I do not think that the amendments tabled by the SDS, the New Slovenia and the Group of Members of the Modern Centre Party will be supported because I do not feel the need to be needed to meet this basic purpose of this law. I would also like to point out that it seems important to me in the amendment to this law that it will be implemented, because it will receive a few less resources because it will not be financed or at least 80% of the funding of this additional part, optional, extended part of the programme, in order to be effective only in the next school year. Well, it seems to me that this marriage should be supported and I intend to support it, and the amendments, as I said, do not. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u47	Master Matthew Tonin wants to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u48	Your Honor, Vice-President, as you know that I consider you to be the right Member and that you are also conducting this meeting properly, but I think that you have not been silenced here in an unnecessary manner and that, in the event of the departure of Mr Kordiš, you should react. That is, in this house, this National Assembly prohibits the enlargement of totalitarian regimes, and it is precisely what Ambassador Kordish is affording. You know, the regime in Venezuela is undemocratic, that it starves its people to kill them. What Member Kordish has afforded is simply unacceptable and should be given at least a reminder as chairman. This is my first procedural proposal. The second procedural proposal concerns Member Tabakovic, who had previously asked me to provide him with evidence or the contents of the writings of the things I was talking about. I'll tell him exactly what this is about. That is, he asked me what is the extended programme that follows partisan interests. That was his question. Let me tell him where it says what this extended program is, which is following partisan interests. In recital 14, the Constitutional Court made it very clear that in this case religious instruction or religious education was involved. So now that we're very clear about putting all this stuff in the stalls, we have state schools, we have private schools with a public program, and we have private schools. In the case of public schools, everything is financed, compulsory and extended, and in private schools with a publicly applicable programme, 100 % of the compulsory programme and the extended programme should be financed and religious education excluded. In other private schools, we don't even care. It has been turned on that Member Kordish is discussing whether we are talking about private schools today, not about private schools, but about private schools with a publicly valid programme, and this is a significant difference. But I think he also said himself when he said that he was going in some way to separate the ideological apparatus; but this is where the Left is shaking, so that no one else might have said anything else, which would not have been on the line with them. But all these things that will be said differently, as they are on the line with them, must be paid in one way or another. That's the way it is. And let them be correct in their deliberations. Ambassador Tabakovic, as I said, points 14 of the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, brings you to what you demanded of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u49	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. I will start with the second one, I would invite you to the debate in response to Mr Tabakovic, not to the procedural proposal. In the first instance, as you have witnessed, I immediately redirected Mr Kordiša to the debate on the agenda. Just to avoid what I'm afraid you just triggered with this procedural. I'm procedurally giving the word to the person who immediately asked for it. Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have a procedure. So much so that we know how sensitive the question is. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, Mr Mahnic, I understand Mr Lisco wants to go on a procedural basis. When I said he had Matthew Tonin, I realized he didn't want to anymore. If that is not the case, Mr Kordish, I apologize, Mr Lisec has procedurally, because he has raised his hand first, but I understand that he is withdrawing. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President. I have no idea what's going on in the head of fellow Member Matthew Tonin. Even if I thought the same thing, nothing would be wrong and it is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure if we both propose the same proposals for procedural proposals. Mr Vice-President, why I have decided to make a procedural proposal and what my procedural proposal is. My procedural proposal is to refer all those debaters who today will be intimidated by the privatisation of public education to Article 87 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. And, Mr Vice-President, if you will not look through the websites, allow me to read Article 87, which speaks of the fact that no privatisation of primary schools or any other schools in Slovenia is possible. I quote: “Despite article 86 of this Act, private schools do not belong to public funds if the only public primary school is threatened by admission to private primary school or by the only public school in the same school environment.” Therefore, with respect, I suggest that every time someone talks about the privatisation of the Slovenian school system, remind him that before he lies or deceives, he should read Article 87 again. Secondly, I suggest that you also warn similar or similar debaters when they talk about why no one wants to build a primary school in Osilnica. Because it cannot be because we already have a problem with this public school and because it says that a private school cannot be established if the only public primary school is threatened by admission to a private school. Not to speak further, who wanted to abolish elementary school in Osilnica and who convened an urgent meeting of the Education Committee, where we have proposed a decision not to do so. First-signed Joze Tanko! In short, Mr Vice President, a procedural proposal. When someone talks about the privatisation of primary education in Slovenia, when someone talks about why there are no private schools in smaller places, please stop it and remind him to read the existing Slovenian legislation first, in this case Article 87 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. I propose this because this has already happened several times today, and to avoid the following manipulations, I suggest that they no longer be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u51	Thank you, too. First of all, Mr Tomaž Lisec, when you wish to proceed on a procedural basis next time, raise your hands clearly and you will get this unconditionally. Secondly, I reject your procedural proposal, because limiting the debate – I will not stick to this proposal. It seems to me that, despite the fact that this is a very important content, we allow and leave each of us to discuss in the agenda. Please, Mr. Mahnic, would you like to add something? I hear you're very loud. Is there anything you'd like to say? [[No, no, ……]] So here we go. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u52	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest that you reject the category of procedural suggestions of colleague Tonin because he managed to lie as long and wide in three minutes of his procedural speech, in the silver language and in spite of his fine skirts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u53	Gentlemen, can we proceed with the agenda? Anyone else want a word? I see you don't. That's why, Mrs. Jelka Godec, you're up, you're up, you're up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much. As many lies as have been said today, I agree, we have not heard them in this National Assembly in a long time. It is obvious, however, that those who have never had children in primary school have never, in fact, led either a public institution or an economic society, or anything, or even read laws in this area. It also best reflects, for example, such a password in the public: Public School is the only school for everyone. This is a password from some time that came up recently, so a few days ago by one of the former ministers. So, all kids have to go to public school whether they want to or not. The question is, if a parent does not see in a public school for his six - year - old child that would bring him the added value that a parent wants to receive. Whether it is a religious direction, whether it is the course of a Waldorf school or any special school offering something more, it has different approaches than a public school. Imagine Janez Novak, a mechanic, paying taxes in Slovenia, a woman named Francko Novak, who works in Gorenje, pays taxes in Slovenia, easy taxes, which then go to public schools or to finance public programs in primary schools. And now these two parents on their six-year-old island find that the school, which is in that district, is somehow not a real school, they want more, they want to, say, get into Waldorf's school and they sign it up. But you want the public service routes in these schools not to be financed 100%. Thus, it is not financed, which means that the taxes paid by these two parents will not in fact be reimbursed in terms of their children’s education. To say that all children must go to public schools is nonsense. Education, education in Slovenia is free and any parent can decide or the child can decide for the school or college. If this is private, if this is public, if this is a school with a concession, it does not matter, it is important that they receive 100 % of the funding from the public programme of the primary school after the end. When you say so, the decision of the Constitutional Court is unclear. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are public, it depends only on how someone imagines it or how he reads it, and how you can move it back and forth, whatever, then you have the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education and the Law on Primary School, which clearly states. It clearly says first, we go to the Constitution, primary education is compulsory. So it's a compulsory primary school. Secondly, the law states that the public programme and the Constitutional Court are talking about a publicly applicable programme of compulsory primary education. The biggest mistake at all was to start talking about compulsory and widespread work. However, when we talk about it, in the Basic School Act, the public programme or primary education programme is divided or written, it includes a compulsory programme and an extended programme. The mandatory programme covers all these subjects, which we all know well, from Slovenian to household, techniques and so on, and selection items. However, in the extended programme, Article 20 of the Basic School Act covers extended stay, morning care, additional education, supplementary education, interesting activities and teaching of optional selection subjects. It's in the extended program and nothing more. Not anymore. In here, it defines exactly what is involved in the extended program. When you share this and say that you will only finance 100 percent of the mandatory program and nothing or we no longer know how much. [[…]] For example, now in the existing proposal, nothing for an extended programme means that children who attend a publicly-existing compulsory primary education programme will be deprived of their rights or will not be financed by extended stay, morning care, additional and supplementary education, interesting activities and learning of optional selection content. So, regardless of who the founder is, all those who are implementing the publicly applicable compulsory primary education programme must also offer pupils an extended programme in this sense, as I have just said by law, and you do not want to finance it. What does that mean? The SMC, which the SMC Members did not wish to point out today, said on the Committee or pointed out that the amendment – that is to say the amendment which was adopted and now allows 100 % of the financing of the mandatory programme and nothing extended – is controversial in terms of the principle of the protection of trust in law set out in the second Article of the Constitution of Slovenia. This second article, however, allows the individual or assures him that the state of juridical status will not deteriorate arbitrarily, making it worse without reason justified in the dominant public interest. There was no reason or explanation as to why Desus was with this amendment, so no percentage of the funding for the extended programme, what he wanted to achieve or what was essentially the purpose of this. It is clear, however, that the rights of these children already acquired are being exacerbated, i.e. additional supplementary education and interesting activities and morning protection have been financed. Now let me make things a little bit more complicated for you. You say, 100% we will finance the mandatory – what was the statement? Ah, the program that's required for students. For pupils in primary school, this part is required, a compulsory program which they must attend, and extended only if they want to. So, they go to the supplemental if they want, they go to the extra if they want. About this a little later. So, you'll be funding a program that's mandatory for students. At Šuštar's primary school, this is a religious belief that we will not change, it is compulsory for students to attend the course of nature and technology, practice, knowledge of religion, religion and culture. Well, now tell me if you're going to fund it. Since you said that with 100% funding of the mandatory programme, which is compulsory for students, this means that you will also finance the partial interests of this primary school. Because these are partisan interests, because they are not essentially mandatory by law, and the student must attend. Let me make things a little bit more complicated for you. Because you don't even know what you're talking about. Since most Members have not looked at the subjects of these private schools at all, and you do not have – not even the Basic School Act – you have no idea what particular interests are, what a mandatory route is, what an extended programme is, what an additional extended programme is, and so on. This is what we are constantly stressing in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The public programme of compulsory primary school should be financed by 100%, regardless of who the founder is. All those items, however, you can throw them wherever you want — either in extended or compulsory, anywhere — which express the partisan interests of this school, must not be financed by public funds. This is also due to the fact that the Constitutional Court also stated in paragraph 25 that the State is not obliged to finance the part which follows the interests of the parties which are implementing the public programme. Now I ask you, dear Members, the obligation for students in Šuštar are also subjects of religion and culture, knowledge of religion, nature and technology. You're going to fund this 100%? The extended part we're talking about is extended stay, additional supplementary education, interesting activities and so on, but nothing? No! No! Children in these schools will not be financed by additional teaching aid, morning care, and interesting activities. No! No! Because what are these kids different from ours? They attend compulsory primary school, which is founded by someone other than the state. To say that the difference between rich and poor, literacy of rich and poor children, such as it is, I believe that these statistics exist, even they may hold – but what does this have to do with private and public schools? What does that have to do with anything? Even in public schools are children of wealthy parents who have probably fallen into this statistic. Where is there any connection to the financing of the extended programme or to this law today? Make literacy rise among the socially weak. What are you doing? You take money to these schools that run a publicly valid compulsory primary school programme because these schools have elite children because these schools are not in rural areas and I don't know what the reasons are. Because these kids have a public school and have them go there. No, these kids don't want to go to those public schools because they don't see each other there. Because they're good at Waldorf school working with kids who promote family life, friendly relationships, I don't know, have different approaches, build on these skills that children have. Otherwise, they're educated and raised. These children end up getting a nine-year certificate, moving on to high school and then continuing to school. Why isn't he in the countryside? Yes, because it is necessary to give first, the material costs are, you have to have space, these spaces are not; secondly, the law limits them, as has already been said. [[…]] Under Article 87, a private school shall not be established where a public school is at risk. And who's gonna set up a village where four kids are now? He can't, he can't! What if he can't, he can't, he can't by law! And these are pointless arguments. These are completely pointless arguments. We must fight for these branch schools, where we have four children, and we fought there for the Backwaters, as a colleague said. That there are rich parents in these private schools; they are also rich, yes. And they're poor. Just like in public school. They're rich and they're poor, and that's why there's a humanitarian action at these private schools, they're funds that allow school fees for these kids who pay them, and now you say, let's destroy that, because now we're going to take this money, so that even fewer of these kids are going to be in private schools. [[…]] You're saying that only those kids that a private school wants to take can go to private schools. He can't do it anymore because the Ministry has ordered how many classes he can sign! Last time you heard, there'd be more entries if you could call a new department, but they can't. They can't! They can't sign it under the law. So there'd be more of these kids. Public school has its own environment, private school doesn't have it. That's right. In public school in this area they always have every school year entry for – I don't know, I'll say a thousand kids now. If there's a thousand two, there can be a problem, and those two can also redirect to another school environment, because they just can't put him in public school there. If you want to enroll a child in a school that's not in your area, you need your consent. So, the fuses are like that and different. I'm saying once again, the arguments why there is no private school in the countryside, if that's why you can't support it because it's not there and you want it. Yeah, I'd like to, too, probably a lot. But then let me make it possible. However, the law does not allow this to happen today. Public schools, the public network of public schools is protected and there is no way they can be established. So, with this law, you basically deny these amendments to taxpayers who have children in these schools in order to fund them with a mandatory public programme. So you deny them that essentially if I say in a parable that money is followed essentially by a taxpayer, as is the case with health care. We all need to see a doctor who's in a public health center. God forbid anyone goes to a private place. What nonsense are we talking about in Slovenia today, instead of allowing everyone the education they want and funding the state of compulsory primary education, the public programme and stopping talking in Slovenia to finance, let's say, in this case private schools because they don't. The public programme shall be financed. The salaries of teachers in these schools who carry out public programmes are financed. These teachers are paid under the Public Sector Salaries Act, they are under the collective non-education contract, for education. So everything is the same as in public schools or schools set up by the State. They were also hit by the ZUJF. So it's the same thing. That departments in private schools are otherwise organised, that is, fewer children, and I don't know what they are – standards and norms in education, my dears. If he fails to meet the school of standards and standards, he will not get the money because he has to report to the Ministry, how many children are in school, how many additional, how many more and I don't know who the principals know better, how many of these statistics must be given at the end and beginning of the school year. [[…]] And if it doesn't meet the standards and standards, even the school she set up, I don't know, like Montessori, she won't get the money. So don't talk about being financed by something they don't have. That's not true. Because in the eyes of the country, I hope that — well, at least such schools certainly do not give money. Maybe someone else. So, these are such arguments that are completely pointless, and resisting in Slovenia against private and initiative is something amazing. Rather than allowing such quality education, regardless of who the founder is, they would allow free choice for both parents and students. The sadness in this country is incredible. Like grief sometimes in this hall, it would be best to open the window to make a commotion in some heads. I'm gonna say it again. I'm gonna say it the way I'm on the board. I have a child in public and private school, and I am not ashamed of one school or another. Why do I have a kid in private school, or high school? Because she didn't see herself in public school because she just didn't see any chance. And I don't have a problem with anything. When I look at kids and parents there, I know it's not an elite. But I do know that there is an elite in primary school who cheats and makes fun of children who are of other nationalities. It's embarrassing for a public school. If you've been watching Targeto, the director, the director's representative, who's more impatient than everyone else who's involved, it's a representative of the public school. It's not a representative of public school or anyone. This is a representative of an ideology that should no longer be in Slovenia today. So the border between public and private is already today. Since private schools that do not implement a public policy programme are not financed by tax money. It is, for example, the British School in Ljubljana, which is a pure private school and is not financed by tax money. With the law you are adopting today, I probably – although I do not know – because in the SMC, which they say they are acting responsibly, at least one Member said so – we can expect much today, and this bartering from nothing, 85 to 65 is a shameful and irresponsible act. Far from being able to talk about who's acting responsible. You also say in schools that tuition, commercialisation and market activity All schools are non-marketable, so they cannot generate profits. [[…]] Once again, at least take a look at the subjects. The question of the coalition, of course, is once again particularly for Desus, because they said that, by means of an article they had adopted or by no means financed by an extended programme, lawyers believe, would also constitute an interference with the rights already acquired and the possibility of non-constitutionality under Article 2 of the Constitution. And that they will only finance what is compulsory for students, then let them look at the subject and the compulsory subjects at Aloysija Šuštar's Primary School, and ask them whether they will also finance those objects that follow the partisan interests of this school. If so, then you are completely entangled and you really need to cut back some Gordy knots, just like you're cutting them in another area. It's probably another thing to expose, but to strengthen public education, but it costs what it wants, so to destroy everything else but I don't know where you're strengthening public education by restricting the freedom of those who don't want or don't attend public schools and they found, say, their opportunity at Waldorf school or Montessori school. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u55	Procedural mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u56	Madam Vice President, once again, I respect you, but once again, you have silenced me when Ambassador Kordish directly attacked and insulted me. He said twice that I was lying; so he lied twice, and then he told me that I was doing it. It's something like a thief yelling, "Get the thief!" Is this a democracy house? If we also allow in this House Members to lie directly and to report this to others, then I do not know where we came from. One more thing. I never go into the dress-up style of Member Kordish. He allows it, throws observations at us just like that, and he doesn't even allow a reminder. I think it is the reputation of this house that such insults must be responded to because they are unworthy. One more thing, if you're being very specific. All I said in my debate was that Mr Kordish was talking about private schools, but today the subject of a private school with a public programme and he was quietly calling me a liar and nothing happened. The fact that he magnified the totalitarian regime is a fact, and when you tell the truth, you're branded a liar. History teaches exactly where such things and procedures took place in the 1930s and then in the 1940s and so on. Therefore, radical Members should begin to be warned today because it may be a few months too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u57	Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. Once again, I propose that you reject my colleague Tonin's categorical procedural proposal. I just don't know what he's up to right now with these procedureists who aren't. He's probably nervous because Marjan Sarc will take him to a seat in Kamnik. But calm him down, because it doesn't belong anywhere, it has nothing to do with content, just some provocation of a conflict that has no basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u59	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes. [[advertising from the hall]] You didn't want the procedure? It's a debate. I'll do it later. I'd answer both of you. Each of us can set up another face and then I agree with you in part, mag. Tonin, and also with you, Mr. Kordish, but I am asking you all to abstain if you can. Of course, we can warn again every time, and we do, but many times it is a matter of our judgment whether we generate further expansion of the hate speech or try to work calmly in the direction that we all talk together about the topic on the agenda, and not further upsetting our colleagues and colleagues. Copy that, mag. Matthew Tonin, I tried immediately, and I was relatively successful until you called again, and in the third. And of course, the reaction, the response is urgent on the other side as well. So I ask you that sometimes we all bite each other in the tongue, especially with a desire for constructive discussion, and that we are often aware that our actions then also have a certain reaction from the opposite-minded and that we are simply spreading our disagreement and intolerance. All together, I ask that we proceed with the agenda. We have another debate in this round, Mrs Eriko Girl, and then I'll start another round. Mag. Matthew Tonin, before I give the floor to Mrs Erika Deklava, you have a retrial motion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u60	President, you can't be all-glihar. Ambassador Kordish began a procedural attack on my fellow Member Horvath just because he congratulated the Saharans, and from here on, the whole bicycle turned. We who try to tell the truth in this national assembly are liars, radical MPs, who lie that we are liars – and you say that we are now equal and on the same side. I have this principle of leadership, and I can't land in this way. You have double standards. Radical Members, such as Ambassador Kordish, are allowed anything, he can be mocked, he can be lied to, and he has nothing, nor can he receive a warning. You are much stricter here, but much more meaningful than Ambassador Kordish, but nothing to him. And another thing is that it will be clear here, as far as my term of office is concerned, Mr Kordish, don't worry. I guarantee you I'll be sitting here next time, and you won't be here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u61	Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Apparently, I've hit it live, we don't hear a fellow Tonin say so many times that he loses control of his replicas this little. But I will not go into any further procedural proposals, except that, as you yourself said, presidents, let this "gunfire" be cut because it is not going anywhere, there is no basis. Inflating one Member there sabotages our entire debate. Well, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u63	Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. We have not heard anything new today, “SDS is the only responsible party in this room and does not contribute to the stalemate in this space”. All right. It's really hard to say anything else from all these points of view. Above all, it is very difficult to place this debate within some rational frameworks. Despite all the ideology, the deception, the manipulation may be right to repeat several times, if necessary, some facts. Perhaps first of all, the system of organisation and funding for education in our country has become obsolete. Changes are necessary, and we are all just talking about funding and absolutely nothing about organisation. If relevant changes had occurred in the past, of course we would not be talking in here today. Since the debate is extremely ideological and irrational, one feels that it is actually one great interest or at least the interest of the majority to keep everything the way it is, and as it is, the Constitutional Court said it is wrong. That's probably what most people have in mind so that they can point their finger at the Prime Minister. This is very often and very much so, and also today, a respected colleague of Ludmila Novak, and I must tell her that it is not the President of the Government who can press the button for or against today, which is why this is our responsibility. Comrade Ludmila Novak, you know, after the constitution, we are not obliged to follow any instructions; we must follow our conscience. And if you're taught on the right that you have to do what the leader says, that's your problem, not ours. We follow our conscience and, of course, vote in accordance with the Constitution. Of course, it all starts and ends with money, unfortunately this time it's also a front. If we want to change this, we need to amend the law and clearly write down the criteria that divide public and private. There is also a need to regulate supervision of the functioning of private schools. If we already have to finance them at 100%, then it is only right that we control them. But it's only a few people who talk about it, most of them sitting on their shores and stubbornly insisting on their solution, and I think we're not really that apart. I also think that there is no great need to make sure who is right, who is reading the Constitutional Court's decision correctly, and who is wrong, at least it will not lead us very far. Let us take a closer look at this part that we agree on. We agree that the mandatory part of the programme must be financed by 100% in both public and private schools. Of course, we are at odds in this part of the programme, which addresses the financing of the enlarged part of the programme, but here I think we should know to accept the compromise, because in politics we usually do not accept what we want, but what we can do. And who today, besides SMC, is able to accept a compromise? One way or another; I think it is quite clear that the new law will also rumble again to the Constitutional Court and they will decide who reads and who understands correctly and who is wrong. Members of Parliament are not constitutional lawyers, and I do not agree that you keep talking about how we make unconstitutional decisions. You are not called to decide what is in accordance with the Constitution and what is not, this is done by the Constitutional Court. We act and vote as we think it is right, but we represent the electorate. I think it is right to support this law today, irrespective of the article governing funding, because the law itself brings a number of necessary solutions, which few people are talking about today. I admit that I personally do not understand why the state should finance 100% of the extended programme, not because a private school does not accept every child. I don't. So he discriminates against both children and their parents. Personally, I don't understand the 100% funding of compulsory work or, rather, I don't like it and I support the change of constitution. In particular, when I read the Catholic School programme, which writes under the specific purposes of “presenting to the disciples the value of religious life” or “presenting to the disciples nature as the creation of God”. But I'm capable of overcoming it. I know we can't change the constitution in this term. We can't because we don't have a majority. Here I understand even more the right hand than my colleagues in the SD, but they say — so at least Han in the Target — that they like it best as before, that is, 85 - 85. But that's not working. In the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, this is not possible. Then you would like to change the constitution very much — and neither can I. So, now what? We put our heads in the ground and do nothing. “Responsible”. As you suggest, let's go back to the starting point. When I listen to New Slovenia defend my views, I suffer a little, I admit. Especially at work when you say we want to punish parents and children. Parents who, unlike in public schools, cannot enroll their children in private schools because they do not accept them are not punished. They're not being punished. Selection of children is a violation of human rights when quoted by a fellow Horvat. Parole “only public school is for everyone” and I do not understand it as explained by my colleague Godec. I understand it as well as that the public school accepts all the children, but the private school doesn't. Of course I'm going to uphold the law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u65	Replica, then I'll start the procedure so you can sign in. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u66	I have to replicate the girl's colleague. I'm afraid I don't have time to replicate everything I've just heard, but I'll say something. You say you respect the Constitution, so you vote according to your will, as your conscience dictates. I wanted to say that your president's word in your client is not valid. And if you're really voting on your conscience and what's right, then just tell me what's right now. You voted on the committee 100 plus nothing, then there was the bill 100 plus 85, now it's 100 plus 65. So what's right?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u67	Colleagues, colleagues, please report to the debate. Check-in is in, please. First of all, he gets the word, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I just want to clarify once again that it is not what we like and that we want to enforce it, but we are looking for solutions that have already been referred to only by the Constitutional Court which has adopted this last decision. During these decisions, the Constitutional Court also referred to the amendment of the Constitution or Article 57. That we are right that this is the path that we should coordinate here in the National Assembly, of course at least at the level of two-thirds of Members, is evidenced by the debate, and last but not least, the question that has been raised clearly, what is right, or the 100 percent funding of the public programme is nothing widespread and other variants of these percentages. You know, the content of Article 86, which was adopted on the Committee, is, in my opinion, contrary to the Constitution, because these rights have been acquired, which have been different from those now enshrined in this Act, and they have been obtained by law, which is now in force. Infringement into acquired rights The Constitutional Court, as a rule, that I do not define myself in advance, defines myself as unconstitutional. I would remind you of something that would be very useful to consider agreeing on two-thirds of the support for the amendment of the Constitution, which speaks of the law providing for this funding, because so far there has been no basis for the law to make this provision, and thus meeting all the conditions that need to be met in order to clear the way of financing compulsory programmes or public programmes in primary schools. What is important, which I would like to draw your attention to – what if the Constitutional Court finds that in the National Assembly we are once again taking one solution that deviates more from what it has already adopted, i.e. unconstitutionally, and will find that the legislator cannot define and clear this issue in the light of the Constitutional Court's issued decision, only to take a decision that will be of an implementing nature? What about then? The Constitutional Court has done this several times before. It took this responsibility to actually put itself in charge of the National Assembly and to adopt a decision which was then not at the level of the Constitutional Court decision, which should be duly implemented by the adoption of the law, but only adopted a decision to be taken at the implementing level. I wouldn't leave it to the Constitutional Court because we can do it and we can arrange it in the National Assembly. But what will be there, what will be the decision there, and we can create one image and start to think again about the composition of the Constitutional Court, whether the way in which constitutional judges are appointed is really such that politics has no effect on the composition of the Constitutional Court. I think it is clear to all that this is not so that politics has an impact, and when politics has an impact, then, as a rule, on such important issues as the financing of primary schools, public schools in particular, this can also be a political decision covered by the Constitutional Court's decision, but not necessarily in the interest of public interest, it can be in the interest of private interest. For if the Constitutional Court had always before the eyes of Article 2 of the Constitution, which speaks of Slovenia as a social state, then it would probably have taken this second decision with a different content than it did. But this was overlooked or ignored because this was not within the framework of a constitutional review requirement. Because the parents who have taken the initiative for constitutional review of this article have tabled it on their problem, and this problem is that 15% of them insist on paying for their children's education, even though it is a public programme. From this point of view, they went to constitutional review, and the Constitutional Court only ruled that. The consequences of this decision, however, are significantly broader, and I wanted to point them out in the short term, that we will be able to have, in the future, the primary schools which will be educated in accordance with nationality, sexual affiliation, religious affiliation, political affiliation, really, you know, the point where we will talk about elementary school Babylon. But if we look back, in the Bible, you will all realize that it was not the intention to do something about unity but to do something about it effectively, but to get it all together on a level, never to agree, and then to destroy that boundary, in this case between private and public. Above all, we must insist that this border between private and public does not end. This also protects Article 2 of the Constitution. Once again, as long as we have a complete public network of primary schools, we have no obligation to finance any other network organised by the private sector through public funds. This means that from a bag of public money you allow public funds to be poured into your private pocket. The Court of Auditors, if this were to be judged from this point of view, would come quite close to what I have just said. But once again, because the law has been passed, it is about the rights acquired, we protect our solutions to the rights acquired, and we offer to amend the Constitution for all or at least two-fifths. If only those who have signed this initiative were aware that this signature is also the basis for amending the Constitution and that it is not good to change their decisions but to make a change to the Constitution, this would happen. This is also a key message. The Constitution is above the law, and what will be the situation if we adopt this law, for example, and then we accept a change of constitution? It is good that we also clear this view, if it is the date of signature to amend the Constitution, then it is right that we also insist on the end and try to clear the text of Article 57 of the Constitution. This is our proposal and it is not an effort to like something or not, but to find concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u69	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Another aspect I think should be highlighted, and this is the fact that Slovenia, compared to the other members of the European Union, is now significantly above average funding for private schools. Nowhere else in any other country in the European Union will you see such a level of state funding, public funding for private education. For 2016, this means that – and here we need to stress how many colleagues from New Slovenia work – six schools received €3.6 million of public money. This is the part co-financed by the state. 3.6 million euros. We have already made it clear in Levica and, of course, we are in this position that every euro going to private schools is less for public schools. What is the importance of public school, and I will not repeat it, but we know that at this stage the public school, as we have it, is complete, so that it covers the whole territory and actually meets the state already what the provisions of the Constitution are, so that education is accessible to all. The second debate is that debate which is now being tried by colleagues from the right to present in some way as a restriction on human rights, a restriction on freedom of choice and so on. This argument goes so that now the parents of children who are enrolled in private schools are discriminated against because they have to pay their tuition and so on. I would point out here, and I think we need to realize that this is the responsibility of the individual who enrolls his child in a private school. Because they are enabled, they have the freedom of choice, the choice is simple — we can enroll a child in a public school, or we can enroll him in a private school. There is a choice, and it is the parent’s responsibility to take over the extra cost that comes with entering a child into a private school. Education in a private school funded by public funds cannot in any way be understood as human rights. The human right that we also need to understand from the Constitution — not least, it was one of the separate opinions of one of the Constitutional Judges in this last decision — is that the State must ensure that the child can be enrolled in a public school. Infringement of human rights would be only when the child could not be enrolled in primary school. But today we have heard this many times, the network of public schools is complete in Slovenia, every child can find a place in primary school. From this our position is clear: financing private schools from public funds is unnecessary. Because on the one hand these private schools and their establishment do not lead to some kind of charity. We have heard that some are willing to invest three or more million euros to build such a school, but I think it is clear to us all that it is not some good men who do it out of pure goodness, but there are always two basic principles that guide the establishment of private schools. One is the basic logic of things, and the other is one that may be even more controversial, a certain worldviewed aspect. Then there is the question of what else these schools actually offer. If they want everything that falls under the compulsory and extended part, I will say, so, the opponents of public education get into private education, the answer is very simple. What the public school offers, that is, those mandatory content and those additional content of the extended programme, which are universal, which do not discriminate, which do not separate and which do not have any worldview, are already here. There are public schools. And if you are saying that, in fact, private schools implementing a publicly applicable programme are the same as public schools, because they are doing the same thing, then the answer is even simpler, let the children be enrolled in public primary schools. Because this argument of yours is just saying that there's some kind of supplement in it, and here's this worldview or some other supplement. Next. It was said that public education was not threatened if private schools were financed. I think that this claim is incorrect because, irrespective of the safeguards referred to in Article 87 et seq., there may be some long-term projection that, when two school systems exist in parallel, the primary schools which are publicly and publicly financed and private schools which are privately and publicly funded, there will be a very likely acquisition of private schools in force. This does not mean, of course, that enrolment in primary schools will be compromised to the extent that primary schools are completely threatened, but that they will endanger the public network of primary schools in such a way that this entry will be reduced, and this will result in private schools becoming more effective if I say so. This further means that we will come to some point despite all the fact that we will witness what we have seen in some, especially the Anglo-Saxon countries where private schools are actually intended for those who can afford them. Because I still insist that some supplement, some additional earnings, some additional funding of these programmes, which do not belong to what the primary schools now offer, will still be paid and will become schools for those who can afford them, and the result will be that schools set up by the State will be even more fed than they are today and subject to becoming some secondary schools, schools that will be dedicated to those who will not be able to afford payment for primary education. Today's debate, or this debate, which we have been actually having for several months now, is about whether we want to create an even greater importance for public education in Slovenia – we need to understand publicly very strongly and narrowly what the state is setting up and sustaining – whether we want some kind of strange mix of public and private education that will ultimately be at the expense of everyone. The public school has one key effect, and this is that it is trying to eradicate what socio-economic differences are in society, and there are not many. More than once, a study of literacy has been mentioned today, and so on, these are all the circumstances affecting how children and adolescents will develop and, of course, what their social mobility will be later in life, how far they will come in society. I think that we should all agree that the socio-economic status of one child cannot be the starting point of the basic bar as to whether or not it can achieve something in life. Here it is important that, at this moment, we should first, purely in the hierarchy of legal acts, amend the Constitution, which is the superior legal act, which discusses how the laws then implement this constitution, and only then adopt amendments to the law in question. The first question that we need to raise, including clearly clarifying this problem, is whether we want a strong public education or whether we want a long-term collapse of public education. If we persist, and the SMC is not excluded here, in financing private schools, we will achieve in the long term precisely that the power and weight of public education will easily begin to break over time and we will produce nothing but greater socio-economic differences and even more inequalities, in school terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u71	Replica, Mrs. Godec. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u72	Article 57 of the Constitution states: “Education is free.” My freedom is to choose which school I'm going to put my child in. If I don't see a perspective in public school, I'm just going to put it in that school, say Waldorf, which I think is better for my child. And no one in this country is going to force me, especially you as an MP, to put him in public school if I don't want to. Education is free. And what bothers you in private schools? Perhaps the goal they have in writing is to raise a decent, patient, responsible and solidarityable citizen? Does that bother you?Oh, my God! Can you be disturbed by the objective: to include the dimensions of Slovenian and European religious and cultural traditions in your own identity? Does that bother you in private schools? Is that what this is all about? Such education and training of these children? You probably have a problem with this: “To get to know students with Christian faith, its tradition, its values and to teach them to respect different thinkers”. Does that bother you?Oh, my God! What's wrong with that? You want all taxpayers who pay taxes to sign up for children in public schools who, for example, do not have such goals written down, at least not explicitly. Once again, Article 57 of the Constitution: “Education is free” for every citizen. My decision is where I'm going to put the baby, and you can't order me to put him in public school if I don't want to. And also no one to sign him into a private school if I don't want to. And when you say that public schools want to eliminate social differences, come on, go stand in front of the school and see what parents are like, what kids are like, go to school, go see what some kids have and what others don't have. Where does a public school try to eliminate social differences? Not them. I don't know how many times I've said, let's do something about it. You are talking about the fact that more and more money will go to private schools – EUR 300,000 of additional money is supposed to go to private schools implementing a public programme that is legally compulsory, primary school. 300 grand. As far as we are concerned, I think we are talking about a maximum of €80,000 for all 6 private schools implementing the public programme. Do not deceive people into bringing about a parallel world. There are already private schools implementing a public programme. Right now. Even now, someone would have set up a private school if they could set up a school, but because of the need to provide material, space and all the equipment, that is not possible. And these private schools can't spread because it's limited to the law, how many departments can have signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u73	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I say again and again that in this House we would need weeding grass, because in these debates, which the ruling coalition today had together with its left extension in the so-called opposition under B, must turn its eye and turn its stomach. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know Murphy's law of the Left? The lowest interests are hidden behind the most sublime words of the leftist in politics. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what you're doing today. What is the truth? For what you used to say is a lie from the first to the last. What is the truth? But the truth is, it's the left-wings, the ones with the mouthful of public education, that you teach your children in private schools. The chronic example of this was Dr. Lukšič. He was president of the SD, and he was Minister of Education and had a mouthful of public education, and he taught his children in private schools. Milan Kučan sent his daughter to a private school abroad. Why? Because private education provides the highest quality education. And of course, the lefties who have money because you've accepted it in the past decades, you can afford it to your children and now you're fighting so that the Constitutional Court's decision doesn't come true. First of all, you wanted to make this escape ahead of the constitutional order, which is part of the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, through the Constitution. It's a top-of-the-line disgrace! In order to reduce the possibility of children from poorer families getting the same quality education, you really did. What did the Constitutional Court want to do? It was only to give poorer children the opportunity to receive better education under the same conditions. The most noble purpose of the Constitutional Court, and you're beating it. And that's what a coalition led by a constitutional lawyer does. Finally, at the constitutional level, the matter stopped, not because the constitutional lawyer, who is the President of the Government, would stop it, but because Mr Göncz is a language in this Parliament, and he said he would never vote for this mess of yours. That's why this thing stopped. Why are you yelling about public education and public health? By the way, even those with mouthfuls, leftists, public health, then go to some private clinic to be treated in Switzerland. At the expense of public health, yes, at the expense of the public treasury, yes, but at the private clinic. Just like their children in private schools. Because the public health system is the largest money launderer in Slovenia, the public education system is the largest brainwasher in Slovenia. What do our schools do? I personally know the case when kids in the 4th grade went to teach LGBTQ about how nice it is if two girls do something to each other and two boys do something to each other and all that nonsense. This was what children had to listen to during regular schooling. I'm sorry. This is for a child who's being ruined because he's confused. It's like you exposed your child to verbal pornography, and that's for criminal prosecution. I hope that now the criminals listen to me and check which schools after Slovenia have done so. Of course it's a public education system. Forgive me, whoever wants to do something has every right, even the legal possibility of doing what he wants in this country, but does not have the slightest right to intrude on children like a quality or value, because this child is confused by its growth. There is, if anyone doubts, please go take a look, now even the official conclusion of the American relationship, which deals professionally with this area. But this is really about the red star bragging. When children in one of the schools in Gorenjska had a game at the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, how to make a business plan, how to make a product, how to sell it, in short, they were learning entrepreneurship, where the Slovenians were the weakest, teachers came along, the public education system, and with red stars they were yelling at those — and the children were crying because they were confused — when they said that with gross capitalism they were already corrupting a child’s brain when they were so small. They're really corrupting, of course, by such teachers. What's it really about? The old rule says those who do this in primary schools, specifically to promote socialism – by the way, socialism has not yet worked anywhere in the world, you all know that, everywhere after the revolution came only death, destruction and disintegration, but those who do it in schools – what do they really do? [[…]] They abuse that old rule that someone as young as a child has not been at least a little revolutionary, has no heart, but who remains that way when he is old enough to grow up has no brains. And some debate here today was fantastic proof that this rule really applies without exception, including yours, ladies and gentlemen. Think about it a little bit, and think first and foremost of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that everyone has the right to raise his children according to the values he advocates. Moreover, it is also possible to derive from the constitutional principle that everyone has the right, that every parent must also feel obliged to provide their children with the highest quality possible education, certainly under the conditions laid down by the Constitutional Court. If you did, as the SMC representative vehemently stated earlier, follow constitutional values, constitutional provisions and constitutional order, then today the text of the law would be quite different. Just as it would have been in the past, your vote would have been different. When she said, "we always vote by the constitution" Yes, of course! [[…]] I have warned you that it is unconstitutional for anyone to withdraw a mandate for something that was known before the elections, that there is a decision by the Constitutional Court, not one, three, that there are decisions by the European Court of Human Rights, I have read them here. This is about what the lady claims, "yes, you take the right to judge the constitution." No, no, no. We caution against what is obviously unconstitutional because it is clear to anyone who can count to 10. But obviously you don't want to know how to count to 10 when it comes to the constitutional order, and you voted in favour of the withdrawal of the mandate, and of course you burned yourself in the Constitutional Court, and you should all step down in line at the time, headed by the President of the National Assembly, who even made this public promise and, of course, cancelled it and forgot that moment when the Constitutional Court's judgment was known. As Nobel laureate Dr. Havel said, lies are the immortal soul of communism. And that's what you do in practice. In short, what you're proposing is a disgrace. If we really wanted to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, we would also have to transpose what is stated in the decision into article of the law. It would be noted that 100 % of the funding of the compulsory programme is 100 % of the funding of the supplementary programme, except when it comes to the personal interests of the individual school. If you want to follow the Constitutional Court's decision, you don't want to, you're consciously violating it, and that's a clear violation. In doing so, you run a red jihad and here you move around and lie to the public long and hard, so that only you can continue to train your children in private schools. For others, reduce the possibility, especially for the poor, to achieve better quality education, and thus keep your privileged position from the past decades. This is really the background of this red Jihad, this ideology, the debate that even a SMC MP has acknowledged itself, which you are conducting in the ruling coalition together with your extension left in opposition under B, as it was sometimes said. This is the essence of the present story and this must be rejected, it must be rejected in its entirety and the constitutional principle must be consistently enforced and the constitutional order, the constituent part of which, in addition to the Constitution itself, is also the decision of the Constitutional Court. If those strong words of the ruling coalition about respect for the constitutional order were to apply, that is exactly what they would do. I just told you how to do that, but you don't want to do that, because of course you know that you would then cut yourself where you're most sensitive in creating actual differences. For what, as I said, is the essence of the lefties? As Nobel laureate Havel has long said, lies are the immortal soul of left-wing men. You talk about equality, and at the same time you create inequality by teaching your children in private schools, because there is the most quality education, while others are hampered by this possibility, you make it impossible for them. The saddest part is that if people knew what it was really about — and that can be said beautifully with an example of how much money was actually involved. The whole thing would actually cost only 300,000 euros a year. But if we look at the whole system, watch out, the public education system is so terribly fed up in Slovenia that in fact that the constitutional principle of free choice and free education of children is already violated in accordance with their values, because you do not have these actual choices because private schools are too small, they have too little capacity, they have artificial limitations, they cannot open departments. That's what your policy is. Shame! But if you look at that, ladies and gentlemen, the whole private education system costs a good 2 million a year. The entire private education system receives $2 million a year from the budget, and in 2016 in the budget for illegal migrants, you threw the lawbreakers through a window of 123 million in one year. This would be sufficient to finance private education in order to enable the poor to have the highest quality education for 50 years. For 50 years the future of Slovenian children from poorer families has been thrown out of the window and today you are talking about solidarity, but I don't know about equality yet about any nonsense that you're violating on your own for long and long, and to whom you don't believe even that second when you say it. That's the essence of the present story. This is nothing more than a break from a constitutional decision, the essence of which was that the Constitutional Court also wanted to provide children from poorer Slovenian families with the highest quality education. Since this is in the Slovenian development interest, this was not only in line with the values derived from the Slovenian Constitution, but also in line with the development interests of the Republic of Slovenia. So your behaviour here today and in trying to change the constitution is extremely counter-developmental, in order to defend your privileges, you destroy talented individuals from poorer families because you do not give them the most quality education in the way that the Constitutional Court has defined as an integral part of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Down from the floor! And this is the government and coalition led by the constitutional lawyer. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u75	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Initially, I would just like to say that the first thing is probably also the task of all Members and Members to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court, and that is why I will certainly support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. But here I would like to open up the subject of private and public. I am convinced that matters should be handled in a private and public manner with one hand in hand, not only in the field of education, but also in the field of health. I am convinced that there are, above all, positive, good practices of private and public action in the interest of both in many European countries. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Slovenia and I really do not understand the left-hand option, why you are so against the private. With regard to education itself, I would like to take a step back when the Ministry of Education has identified extremely amazing things for me, namely that it is prohibited to publish comparisons between primary and secondary schools. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you have joined today's debate and you may be able to say more about this subject, but it seems to me that this was the first step towards private. In addition, you have decided to overstep the Constitutional Court's decision and go to amend the Constitution in order to completely destroy something that is private. In 2014 or 2013, we received the first publication in Slovenia of a comparison of the performance of primary and secondary schools on the basis of national knowledge and graduation checks. At that time, the Ministry of Education shouted and shouted that this comparison of primary and secondary schools was inappropriate. Vik and the cry were made by the teaching union and by the association of directors and therefore called on the Ministry to amend the legislation so that the classification of schools on the basis of knowledge tests will be even more banned than it is now. I'm sure that's the logic of the last century and of the previous system. I wonder what you're so afraid of. As a parent, I am interested in comparisons between primary schools and secondary schools. You're the one who banned it. Despite the decision given to the State Examination Centre by the Information Officer to provide data on the national knowledge and graduation, they did not want to do so. In 2016, in one case, the Administrative Court had already decided, but the appeal was then before the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court had not yet decided. Dear Minister, I think it is the duty of the State as guardian of public services to choose and publish data on the quality of schools. I wonder what you're so afraid of. I am convinced that only one thing, that it is possible, I do not know whether the ministry or anyone else has gone into their noses, that some private schools on these scales have become quite high. In private high schools, for example, the St. Stanislava, the Škofia classic high school in the second place. First place, say Bezigrad Gymnasium. This was published by scoring on the basis of the results of the graduation. For primary schools, however, they were made on the basis of national knowledge checks. There's been a scream and a scream here that there can't be any of these comparisons. Why can't there be? What are you afraid of? I'm sure there's only one transparency involved. I think it's unacceptable that we're not aware of this. If not for primary schools, I am sure that these matters should be published for secondary schools and that parents can then decide which school their children will be enrolled in, even in the light of these results. If the Ministry estimates that, say, the methodology of this analysis is not appropriate, then suggest a new methodology and new analysis on the basis of which these comparisons of primary and secondary schools will be published today. I am almost certain that we are the only European country and the only serious country in the world where it is illegal to publish comparisons of the performance of primary and secondary schools. This really reminds us of some steel, leaded times back and also the times of the previous system. I am convinced that it goes in the nose only to see this comparison privately — publicly. I am sure that any thing that is not a monopoly on the market is welcome, some competition must be between us. I am convinced that it is also extremely incomprehensible that you are violating the Constitution, violating the Constitutional Court's decision, and this is not the whole financing of private education, but only for those programmes set out by the Ministry of Education. They had public programmes, but it's not about financing infrastructure, electricity, heating and everything, it's about just the basic thing that they're doing in public education. I am convinced that it should be of interest that these private schools today are even more in Slovenia, that there is competition among themselves, and I am sure that also a number of taxpayers' money based on the construction of primary schools would be saved here. Once again, I call on the coalition here also to tolerate the debate. Here we have witnessed some brutal attacks, attacks on privacy. I really don't know what you're so afraid of, but I'm sure the results are, and the results of the comparisons that have been made have shown that many private schools are better than public schools after success. I am interested, however, that there should be an even greater challenge for the ministry and for everyone else to make a comparison of why some schools are better than others, and that the good practices that these schools use, where students and students achieve good results, are passed on to those schools that achieve worse results. Here it is extremely incomprehensible that the biggest shout and scream in comparison with private schools, but not only private schools, but also comparisons of public schools among themselves, have triggered an association of directors and a union. I'm sure someone here really wants to do one of the balancing boards between them. Dear Minister, do we really live in a society where we must pretend that we are all doing the same good and that we are equally successful and that we can only talk about differences in secret? Because that's what this decision tells me that you've made. I am sure that the Ministry of Education should be the first to say that comparisons between primary and secondary schools are welcome. Now you're even going a step further, first you've banned the publication of the performance of primary, secondary schools among yourselves, and now you're actually going to want to crack that private school down on your head. But you do not realize that this makes an even greater difference between the social classes in Slovenia, because if these decisions are taken and are enforced, I am sure that many in Slovenia will not be able to afford private schools, but today anyone can actually do so if it is logistically possible. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the Coalition, let reason prevail. I am convinced that both in the field of education and in the field of health care, they can work privately and publicly with their hands in hand, and that they can do so successfully. And I am sure that in Slovenia we need both a successful public and a successful private matter in both education and health. And I am convinced that this citizen and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are the only beneficiaries. What you are pursuing is probably more than some partial personal interest and a flood of private interest. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u77	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister with co-worker, colleagues, nice greeting! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is sworn by the President of the Government and ministers who say: "I swear to respect the constitutional order, to follow my conscience and to work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia. I swear I will respect the constitutional order." And in Article 57 of the Constitution, which is the key red thread of today's debate, the first paragraph follows: “Education is free.” Second paragraph: “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funding.” Third paragraph: “The State creates opportunities for citizens to receive appropriate education.” But ministers swear to respect the constitutional order. Then we have a decision of the Constitutional Court from 4 December 2014, briefly 3 years and 9 days ago, decided: “The first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is in the work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes, which is inconsistent with the Constitution.” Point 2: “The National Assembly must abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia.” For 2 years and 9 days we are late with a very clear and simple decision of the Constitutional Court, despite the fact that the President of the Government and the Ministers have sworn to respect the constitutional order. What happens when the Left Coalition is in power? First, he rejects the proposal of the SDS Group, which follows a decision of the Constitutional Court by 100 %. This is why the Minister was intertwined because, once again, she does not respect the constitutional order as a minister in charge of education. Let us leave aside her personal preferences in this area, but as Minister, once again, you have sworn to respect the constitutional order. This decision, because I say, is two years late for enforcement, and then today, in the first sentence, the Minister says: "We have before us the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision." Given that I participated as a member of the Education Committee and I saw the draft law, I saw the SD amendment, I saw the SMC and Desus amendments at the meeting of the mother's working body, and I see today some strange attempt by the amendments of certain SMC Members, I, Madam Minister, wondered what your de facto implementation of the Constitutional Court decision meant. Is it 100 and 100, or is it a compulsory and extended program, as the Constitutional Court ruling says, or is it 100 and nothing or is it your 100 and 65 or is it your 100 and 85? I'm talking about a mandatory and extended programme. I will go later on what is being said not only by the decision of the Constitutional Court on the compulsory and extended programme, which some, once again, despite the clearly known decision of the Constitutional Court, you do not want to understand, because you do not want to understand either the written or oral opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In short, instead of seriously enforcing the Constitutional Court's decision, we have a fluctuation of attempts to reinstate unconstitutional solutions. Once again, whoever has read the reasoned decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, knows that either the amendment of the SDS Group of Members or the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, we will be, in fact, even though you are arguing that the Constitutional Court will decide in an unconstitutional manner. Comrade Tabakovic said very well, the decision of the Constitutional Court was clear, and then he went on to do what he should do and to do a little bit of circuitry. Fortunately, for that circuit, the most brutal, because because you do not like the decision of the Constitutional Court, you want to change the constitution, the Hungarian Member of the Nationality says that you are not going to go along with these conflicts. But we still have a law before us that does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision. To me, the distinguished minister and respected colleagues, it is very sad that instead of talking about good schools and bad schools – this is what my colleague Marko was talking about earlier when he asked why comparisons are being deleted – we are talking about public and private. And that's the problem. We have state schools, and we have private schools. English private school, which has nothing financed by the state, no investment or equipment or teachers, nothing, it's a private school. We are talking about public and private, but they have the same red thread – public programmes. And first of all, yes, I, too, will get a little banged up with a constitutional lawyer who has the name and surname of Mira Cerar and is fortunately or unfortunately, as we wish, President of the Government. Prime Minister Miro Cerar said one month before – or three weeks earlier – that “the rule of law, the decisions of the courts must be respected and respected.” And what do we have today? We have the same Prime Minister of the Government, who insists from a neighbouring country that he respects the decision of an international court and at home he prepares a law that does not follow the decision of the courts. How should citizens today feel when they receive a letter, mail from the courts where the court imposes this and that matter? They think because the President of the Government says that the decisions of the courts must be respected and respected, but he does not stick to it, why I, as Janez Novak, have to respect and comply with the judgments of the courts. Why is the President of the Government with co-thinkers a first-class citizen, all the others, but we must respect the Constitution, the judgments of the courts and the laws, second-rate? Since the privileged can bypass the constitution, the judgments of the courts, they can break the laws and nothing will happen to them, and all the others, probably 98% of us, are second-rate because we have to respect and respect what is stated in the Constitution, in the decisions of the courts and also in legal matters. In short, I want to say that Dr. Miro Cerar is a catastrophic lawyer. If he has problems with enforcement, respect for and compliance with decisions of the Constitutional Court, he is obviously a catastrophic mathematician who does not distinguish 65 from 85 and who does not distinguish 85 from 100 percent. And that's what the Constitutional Court wrote down. More! Prime Minister Miro Cerar is a first-class liar. In 2016 he said: "I am personally unhappy because the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not respected, and I will do everything possible to enforce this decision." I hope Miro Cerar is very unhappy because, as a lawyer, he doesn't respect court decisions. And just for a little while, we'll talk about lawyers. Before this term of office, we were the ones who ended the FDV, a second-class body, they said, oh, we're lawyers, and you're the FDV's. My colleagues, which I have a few who are lawyers, say that after this term you are still very capable and decent people on the FDV, but we lawyers are less valuable because lawyers from the Government with the President of the Government as a lawyer show us that we are something irrelevant because we can invent, undermine the constitution, undermine the judgments of the courts, trample legislation, respect legislation, and no one. So why study law in the first place if the President of the government can just make up what he'll respect and what he won't respect. Not only do we have the President of the Government, who is a catastrophic lawyer, who teaches us this many times by his actions, we have a problem with the coalition that deals with the Constitutional Court decision, where the SMC Member says: "The only solution is 100% mandatory and 0% extended programme." Three days later, the same parliamentary group: “The only way to save is to finance 100 % of the mandatory and 65% of the funding of the extended programme.” In doing so, the Minister says: “Let us be at least a little tolerant and give 100% compulsory and 85 widespread.” But once again, Madam Minister, the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision speaks of 100 per cent of the funding of public programmes. What you can afford most – here I can say that Mrs Vervega may have debated even the most correctly in the spirit of the Constitutional Court decision, but everyone else you have doctored from compulsory, widespread and I do not know which one. I will read again to you, given that you obviously have some problems not only with understanding, but also with reading the Constitutional Court decision, the twenty-fifth sentence to which colleague Tabakovic refers in particular, I quote: "The content of the compulsory public school education programme funded by public funding is uniformly established for all primary education providers." Next: "Individual differences in the principles under which private or public schools act as institutions only appear in extended education programmes funded by public funds and therefore not subject to this initiative. The right to attend a compulsory public education programme free of charge does not require the State to finance the implementation of superstandard or extended programmes with which private schools pursue their partisan interests. The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution therefore requires that the compulsory minimum of basic education, which is uniformly determined by content, be publicly financed, but does not include the financing of additional content which depends on the value of the orientations of individual primary education providers.” And now you have thrown into this simple dictatorship the distinction between mandatory, widespread, partisan and additional content, because you're afraid of something that can't possibly happen. Because you're afraid of a privatisation that can't be legal. I have once, on a procedural basis, proposed to the President that he should warn, but apparently some still do not receive the dictates of Article 87 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which speaks of the protection of the public network. In the meantime, I heard twice: “Why is there no private school in Osilnica?” Because she can't be. Since admission to a private primary school threatens the existence of the only public primary school or the only public school in the private music school, it cannot be a private school. So much for this fear of privatisation. And let's leave it aside that you're actually afraid of just one privatisation so that the Church doesn't make any more schools. Believe me, if the Church were to set up schools, they would certainly not be under such an extreme left government and would certainly not be at a time when its financial revenues are not as great as some would like to show them. More! Today was a debate on the profits of private schools. The protection of the public network, the same Article 87 states: “... or if it carries out an activity contrary to Article 7, paragraph 5, of this Law.” Let me read it to you, why you can't make a profit. The fifth paragraph of Article 7 says, just for a second, that I will not deceive, as most do: “The garden or school shall not carry out educational activities financed by public funds for profit.” There can be no profit because levers are both at the level of the ministry – we have a special world – as in the marriage dictatorship that it cannot be. We have a professional council and a law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which says that there can be no profit, and today we are listening again to the “profit of the private”. What profit? That profit that they created through some other activity in this ugly capitalism and they were going to put it into the establishment of a school and thus drained the local community's budget, when we speak mainly in primary education, did they not burden the country's budget when we talk about secondary schools and colleges? That means the plus is in the state budget, if there's any private school anymore, but no, you're just freaking out here with the privatisation of schools. In addition to what I had previously read in the twenty-fifth sentence of the Constitutional Court decision, at the last meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service warned you that if the Constitutional Court's decision is not respected 100 %, which means 100 % of the financing of public programmes (without your discussions on compulsory, extended, complementary and I do not know what kind of education), you are actually violating the Constitution. A new constitutional assessment initiative has already been introduced before the Constitutional Court in June 2016, which is being dealt with by the Constitutional Court as a matter of priority. And if the Constitutional Court finds that the legislative procedures so far to enforce its decision in the National Assembly have failed and that, at that time, the only way to ensure its respect, enforcement, is to establish a new means of enforcement, thereby fully safeguarding the constitutional position of the initiators. But of course, this will be done by the new composition of the National Assembly, where new faces will probably be sitting again, who will again be wise to read the very simple decision of the Constitutional Court. We even heard one today, not just an anti-constitutional debate. Someone, and I will not mention him not to be embarrassed, said: “We have decided to compromise the decision of the Constitutional Court.” There are no compromises in respect of any court's decisions. But you do 100 percent, everything else is a non-implementation. I hope that at least the lawyers in this National Assembly will agree on this if we already have a government president who disagrees. The honourable Minister, which is a large part of the law that we are considering today, is very solid, progress has been made both in appointing directors and in this public and private school in order to be able to withdraw, although we already have it in our current legislation. It is some progress, and I really do not understand the President of the Government or you, Madam Minister, but even less the Members, who will eventually decide why you will be involved in such a simple decision of the Constitutional Court. In the Constitutional Court’s decision, which, once again, states that Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education should be amended within one year. And that now under some cover of ideology – in fact, some even publicly admit it when they say they will not accept the SDS amendment just because they are afraid of any new church school. This was heard on the committee as publicly as it did when the microphones were not on. I'm not really asking you that. Minister, if you agree with me in the debate that there are no compromises in respect of decisions of the Constitutional Court, I am interested in which compromise you will compromise – not because you do not have the right to vote in this law, but members of the coalition – decide. What's a rotten compromise? 0% of the extended programme, 65% of the extended programme, 85% of the extended programme or compliance with the Constitutional Court decision referring to the 100 % funding of public programmes? I do not appeal to common sense, I do not appeal to any dogma that what the SDS proposes, we must reject everything, but I suggest only that you respect what the President of the Government and ministers swear: “I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and that I will work with all my strong people for the welfare of Slovenia.” If the amendment SDS or New Slovenia is not adopted, you will violate the constitutional order and act against the welfare of Slovenia, because you will make first-class and second-class children who attend schools with public programmes and you will make first-class and second-class parents of these children who have enrolled in schools where public programmes are implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u79	Procedurally, Mrs Erika Deklava, and then we have another replica. Here you go, Mrs. Erika Girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I expected you to explain to your colleague from the SDS that it is not the President of the Government who is writing legislation, but it is the Minister, and it is not the President of the Government who can accept or reject the law, but it is we who are Members. That's why it's our responsibility, not his. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u81	Procedurally, Mr. Mahnic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you. I suggest you teach your colleague if we're going this way, but it's the Prime Minister who can or won't put a stop to the agenda. And if the President of the Government, as Dr. Constitutional Law, considered that the agenda item was inconsistent with the Constitution, he would not have put such a law on the agenda. And this is the responsibility of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u83	I suggest that such activities be transferred to the debate, so, Mrs Vesna Vervega, you have the right to a replica. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I was mentioned in the discussion by my colleague Lisco. His words were about this: the only right decision that implements the Constitutional Court's decision is 100 per cent funded by a public programme. So, just like you're proposing with the amendment. Here I would like to explain that the public programme, following a decision of the Constitutional Court – which is also divided by the Constitutional Court, is a public programme, is a compulsory and extended programme. We're back to that concept. Thus, 100 % of the funding of the public programme is not a decision of the Constitutional Court, but only in the part where it says: “Individual differences in the principles under which private or public schools act as institutions are shown only in the extended educational programmes which are not financed by public funds and are therefore not subject to this initiative.” [[advertising from the hall]] But I quoted from the beginning of the sentence to the end of the sentence. In another part, of course, see, an extended programme or a superstandard programme, since the Constitutional Court is equal to or says that it is superstandard. So I do not think that the public programme is what the Constitutional Court decision is referring to as a fully public programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u85	Procedurally, Mrs. Jelka Godec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u86	The primary school law, and now please, let's read it again. Article 14, the primary school programme: “The primary education programme includes a compulsory programme and an extended programme.” The public programme of compulsory primary school covers a compulsory and extended programme and we are not talking about any superstandard, as this is not a superstandard. However, if you read the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is stated that the State is not obliged to finance that part of the extended programme by which private schools pursue their partial interests. “The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution therefore requires that the compulsory minimum of basic education, which is uniformly determined by content, be publicly financed, but does not include the financing of additional content which depends on the value of the individual providers of primary education.” I apologize for the procedural, but procedurally, President, is, let me explain to Members once again, to read the law on financing education and education, namely the ZOFVI, to read the Basic School Act, but if a person from education has come to the parliamentary branch, he should already know. And let it stop deceiving itself! Once again, President, I ask you kindly that every time they say that the extended programme is superstandard – it is not! The extended programme must describe all primary schools implementing the public programme. It's about morning protection, supplementary, supplementary education, interesting activities. Please stop talking about it. The law clearly states what an extended program is. However, the extended programme in private schools can be that additional extended programme, and it also represents the partisan interests of religion and culture, and I don't know what it is. I would really beg because Members simply don't read their laws. It's not just one marriage, these laws are bound to other under-laws! And this is unacceptable to read the Constitutional Court decision to the branch, and then not to the end. It's not allowed, Chairman. If someone mentions a law, an article should read it in full. All of it! If he can't read all six paragraphs, let him read the entire sentence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u87	Mrs Jelka Godec, I understand your concerns, but I am asking you to take this to the debate. I see you have, the SDS Group, another 20 minutes, I think we need to allow the National Assembly to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm inviting you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. The first word is correct, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Now we are at the beginning, where we were before — I don’t know how many hours this matter has been going on. I'd still ask the Minister if we have the wrong thing to say. [[…]] Please tell us who is responsible for this that the Primary School Act speaks of a public programme, that it consists of 2 parts, compulsory work in which the subjects are mathematics, English, technology, biology, not all will be listed, plus selection content, and from an extended programme which covers extended stay, morning protection, additional, supplementary education, interesting activities and teaching optional selection content under Article 20. All of this, compulsory and extended, the school must offer the student a compulsory tender. Now, there are no excuses for compulsory schooling, compulsory schooling, except when they are sick, into extended work, that means morning protection, complementary, additional and so on, and if they want, so not all go to morning protection and not all go to the complementary. And then something happens? Well, now, by the way, the school has to sign it and fund it. He gets paid when he reports to the Ministry after all these statistics. And now people, these Members here are saying that the extended programme is still with religion and culture, and I don't know what it is. No, it's not, and that's what the Constitutional Court is good at writing. And also the Legal and Legal Service has said that it is not allowed and will not be – now I do not have here – financed even half an hour more morning protection, not one additional interest activity anymore, not one hour more additional lesson because it is not a decision of the Constitutional Court. The decision of the Constitutional Court is to fund 100% of the compulsory primary school’s public programme, which is now 85% in law to finance it. 85 %. The law didn't say anything now about sharing in mandatory and widespread, you're the one who invented it. You invented it because you read in the Constitutional Court's decision about an extended programme that follows the partisan interests of a private school. This is quite something else than the extended program, which is written in the Basic School Act. The extended programme, which follows the interests of the private school, is not covered here and must not be paid from public funds and will not be paid from public funds. But since you're all so crazy, now you don't even know if you'd give me 0% or give me 65 or give me 85. Now everything's gone completely crazy. I have read to you earlier that children in a private school should even have a compulsory visit to religion and culture. Are you going to fund this? Probably not because you're resisting it. But you said that those objects or that part of the public policy that's mandatory for children would be financed by 100%. That's what you said. Let us therefore separate between the extended programme, which is written in law, and those which follow the partisan interests of the private school. It is not financed and it is not allowed and the Constitutional Court has said it must not. If a child goes to a school which has been established privately and implements a public programme, if he attends faith and culture, because he must probably be within it, it is not paid for. But if you go from 85% of funding to 0% in the expanded work, it can also mean that in public schools or schools set up by the State, children will no longer be entitled to morning care or that this will be paid to school. Once again, let your marriage read what the law says about compulsory and widespread. That's the point now. Then read the decision of the Constitutional Court from the point of view. The SPS said that every next hour of interest, the department should not be financed or will not be financed without any more non-compulsory hours. And not to deceive. Do not deceive that they are in an extended program in schools set up by private people, I do not know which subjects — they are not. Expanded program by law, once again, morning protection, supplementary, additional education and so on. Which is a problem, but that's what should be considered. Complementary and additional, for example, is not mandatory. The school has to sign it and sign it. And then what happens? The teacher sits inside alone for an hour. Alone. In addition, in addition, not as much as in supplementary. And the kids are half-grade. But the school gets paid, the teacher sits down. And they're angry teachers because they just sit there for an hour, and I don't know, they're making preparations, I don't know what kids are playing at, because no one is questioning them, and their parents are looking for decisions because they're not able to follow. But to put it in a supplemental one, that's not because it's a disgrace. But I don't know what to think. But this school gets paid, my dears, that the teacher sits alone for 45 minutes instead of having children at the extra. It's a little different when it comes to extras, because there are those kids out there who want to learn something else, and then there's a little bit of a problem in high school, and they'd rather go somewhere else than there. But that gets the school paid. Do the Ministry of Public Schools, or all schools where there is a public programme, do teachers do this by themselves? Teachers write letters, including principals, that this is total nonsense. Nonsense! Sometimes it was mandatory, as far as I can remember, and then it was that they were no longer required to be complementary, extra, and now the classrooms are empty. And we're paying for it! We pay for empty classrooms. Nobody's talking about it. You're all talking about quality public education. Nobody talks about it. They list the impossible, the extra instruction, or those interesting activities that you don't know where they came from, the veins five out, where no one goes, and nobody talks about it. And that we have the choice of English, and the choice of English, they both have to. I mean, that's what I think the ministry's been up to. [[…]] Basically, nebulosis like that in public education is terrible, and we are now talking about what is widespread and what is not widespread. The law says what the extended program is, and that's it. It can't be anything else. Faith and culture are not an extended programme and must not be financed. We insist on that. However, since the Constitutional Decision speaks of a public programme of compulsory primary education, it speaks of a package, not of sharing, it shares only in the part where it says, "an extended programme that follows the partial interests of a private school". This isn't a division. This isn't a division! If you have one box and then another one is on fire, the other one is yours, and the other one is yours. If you buy or get a box for free, you have to pay for this, you will pay for it because there is no other box. The law is clear. If you refuse to admit that the Constitutional Court's decision is clear, the law is clear on what is compulsory, what is widespread.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! If we were at the beginning of the millennium, we might still understand such a debate, but we are in 2017, we are going in 2018, and we are dealing with whether we will finance for some children, I don't know, 65 percent, for others, or in some other form – 85 percent is currently – whether we will finance 100 percent. For the kids! Where do you see the biggest problem? Where do these kids learn? Primary school is mandatory. Finally, by a certain year, parents may also be at home. This option is also in the law. In fact, no one deals with how these children are taught or what is included in the public program, the extended program, or what is going on in the partial program. These children must eventually do some tests, prove that they have the right knowledge. We have this option, too, and I support it so there won't be any mistake. But today we are dealing with why private schools, which have brought into this space, however you turn, after many years, since it already exists elsewhere in Europe and beyond, various alternative educational concepts that contribute to the development of children in different respects. It's not just about knowledge, it's about learning and it's about training concepts. We have a training program. They've brought some kind of width and significant added value, and I can guarantee it. The Waldorf School, the Waldorf concept, the concept of montessori, Reggio pedagogy we do not have in Slovenia, there are a lot of these concepts and someone who brings an alternative is unacceptable to you to reach 100% funding. On the Constitutional Commission, Matthew Tashner Vatovec said that the Constitutional Commission's proposal was necessary because we wanted to maintain public education. Who's taking it out?Oh, my God! Who's taking it out? What he said opens another question for me – are we actually satisfied with public education in this country? If someone has such concerns that an alternative will bring about the abolition of public education Why should they?Oh, my God! [[…]] I can tell you, on a personal occasion, that my child attended Aloysija Schuštar's elementary school for four years, then we moved, this option was no longer available, and he went to a so-called public school. We were happy with one and the other. He took some more to the first elementary school, or first - year attender, something else. That's right, that's normal. But it's not normal for us to have to pay extra for that. That's not normal. For his knowledge, which the law requires, was the same. Last but not least, see if we have 85% in the law today, and for some 100, and now we would change that, does that mean that these children should take additional exams, because who guarantees that then the implementation of this programme is as required by legislation? Why? Because we don't recognize them. We don't admit it to them. We do not acknowledge this, but we do, on the other hand, acknowledge that the law clearly states that primary school is compulsory and that a programme must be implemented, of course in accordance with the law, which students must carry out. But today, some people have to pay for this program, which is compulsory. Why? Or if I reverse it a little bit, maybe they don't, according to you. It's funny you haven't come up with any more exams for these schools. In this way, we literally destroy every citizens' freedom to decide where they are going to put their children in school. We're destroying it. I believe that this proposal, or this proposal by the Constitutional Commission and all the trouble it has, of course, started with the SD, has in fact only begun because of the problem of the so-called private school, which was created on the initiative of the Church. I think that's the biggest problem because we've had a Waldorf school or something before, but there was no problem. Interesting, isn't it? No problem. After Aloysy Schuštar’s primary school was established, the debate began. Why?Oh, my God! They shall carry out a public programme in accordance with the law. All that is additional and which Jelka Godec has very well justified is in those individual partial interests for which money must be provided by itself. No one pays for it, no taxpayers pay for it. As a taxpayer or my family had to pay taxes to this country, we had to pay extra for the primary school we chose. For a programme which is mandatory under the law. That's the biggest problem. Please consider, in 2018 we will, allow alternative educational concepts for the welfare of the child. Don't kick your kids abroad because that's the easiest thing to do. The money is enough for some people to send their children abroad, our children will run to them alone because they no longer see the solution at home. Let's do things right here, and let's allow the children to continue their schooling in our schools, Slovenian schools with the program set out by law. Do not change and play by the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I have to release Commander Hainz. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. It was heard that there were different interpretations and different explanations of the Constitutional Court judgment. As far as different interpretations are concerned, I agree that there are many, but they are all within an ideological framework. If you look at lawyers, with the exception of Prime Minister Mir Cerar, other constitutional lawyers, I have not heard that you would support this variant of law and the way in which you propose it, or all the options you have proposed so far. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary, where does 65% come from? It seems to me that 85% is determined, but 100% would be more determined. That was your motto, past the beam, during the presidential election campaign. The only fair thing would be to fully respect the Constitutional Court's decision in order to adopt the amendments that we propose either in the Slovenian Democratic Party or in New Slovenia. It is interesting that we have the most obvious lack of respect for the rule of law and that in this case it is we who are making an amendment that fully respects and, above all, what is more essential than respect, we are taking into account the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Article 20 of the Basic School Act – including this law, not just the law on financing education and education – clearly defines an extended programme that lists extended residence, morning protection, additional education, supplementary education. This is a programme that both public and private schools have, and this is a public programme. However, there are also, of course, interest activities identified within this extended programme within the public investment programme. It is understood, however, that if it goes within these activities of interest for activities that follow the interests of the educational institution, or in this case of private school, as we have repeatedly said, religion, culture and so on, are not financed, according to the Constitutional Court's judgment. Tell me how complementary learning can be, an additional lesson, and above all, morning protection ideologically. It can't be. It can't be because morning protection is mandatory. Not everyone lives in Ljubljana, where jobs usually start at nine, eight, a large majority in the countryside at six o'clock in the morning, seven o'clock at the latest and have to take the children to school. This calls for morning care. Why not now at private school finance the morning protection or finance it according to the proposal that was adopted – on the proposal of the Desus Group, it would not be at all, and according to the SMC's amendment of work, it would be 65%? How did you define this 65%? Why is the morning child protection, for example, at the montessori school – where, as we have seen yesterday, practically 50% of children who receive help in paying for lunch, which means they do not come from some elite circles of Slovenian society, but children from poorer families who need help, why is their morning protection – less valuable than the morning protection of someone who attends a public school with the same program? Because in this case, I respect and always take into account the judgments of the courts, I will vote in favour of an amendment which transposes the full decision of the Constitutional Court, and it also enters into the 86th section of the law we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u94	To be very concrete and correct as we speak today. Today we are talking about funding school programs. The whole policy, we all agree that whatever school we put it in, the public or compulsory public programme, should be financed 100 percent; mathematics, Slovenian and so on. I'm going to the end. We all agree that, in no case, the state, the budget, must not finance a religious programme, religious education. The opposition, New Slovenia, SDS, and the entire left coalition, all agree. However, there are differences in the financing of the extended programme. This, however, is morning protection, afternoon protection, complementary, additional education and so on. But here's the difference. We in New Slovenia and in the SDS say that this should be financed 100%, part of the SMC says that this should be financed by 65%, SD and Desus say that supplementary education, afternoon and morning protection should not be financed. Once again, if the SD proposal is adopted and the SMC is adopted, they will be most vulnerable. Since those who are rich can afford anything, those who do not have it will be the most affected. As a result, the only realisation of the Constitutional Court's decision is that we also fully finance morning protection, afternoon protection, supplementary education, teaching aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! He must have had a forerunner in mind, Desus and SMC. From the very beginning, we have said – and the debate today would also be completely unnecessary and unnecessary if we did – that before the adoption of this law it is necessary to clarify the constitutional dictatorship, to change the constitution and through the constitutional prism to resolve what we can agree on here today, I say without the need to discuss, to be caught in an ideological conflict where in fact we all agree on an important part. This is in that compulsory primary school must be accessible to all, quality for all, and, if anything, must be subordinated to the values of our society, which stem from the constitution that is written down. That three years ago we wanted to resolve this with the partners of the Social Democrats and that the final vote on the Constitutional Commission had not taken place, I am truly sorry. It is more logical than the fact that through the Constitution the primaryity of public education is publicly recorded if you want state primary schools, and optionally, if we are allowed resources, circumstances, financing of private schools as well, it seems to me that nothing we have talked about in the last period, but not just the period of this meeting, but the period of the last 20 years. Why is it so incomprehensible that we must first have resources, resources and infrastructure for public school, state school, if we wish, and if the wealth of our society allows us, then the possibility of funding – as my colleague Tonin said – is complementary, and as far as I am concerned with the partial extended programme, if we can afford it? I don't have a special problem with that. But until it is also protected by constitutional dictatorship in a way that it cannot reach the various judgments of the Constitutional Court in related substantive matters, it is the legislator's duty to protect the public primary school, which the State is obliged to provide to everyone and to everyone regardless of the interests of the parties. Thus, every environment must have a public school through which the state provides every child with the possibility, irrespective of the political, religious or any other definition of its parents, to be educated in primary school because it is compulsory. If we can and can do this, and if we are such an advanced society, and I believe we are, then we can think about building this foundation up with both substantive and value-based or programming and methodologically different primary schools, which is logical. However, not in the way that this has been happening around the world, that under the pretext of giving different educational opportunities and programming and value guidance, resources for primary public education have slowly drained into private education, the quality of public education has declined, and the ability of most parents to co-finance private education has increased the quality of private education and the distribution of society has increased. We can see this in the United States, and we can see it in France, and in the United Kingdom, I don't even talk about the countries of the so-called Third World. If we have listened well — with a view to appearing among the last — the whole debate today, I think we all agree on the essential elements. As I said at the outset, every child must have the right to be educated in a quality, accessible primary school. To be clear, public primary school is excellent, and in my opinion, the great majority of private primary schools are significantly less excellent or not to say even most of them are private schools at the tertiary level of education. This suggests a phenomenon that can also happen in public education in primary school if we fail to do so, as has already been said, primarily by protecting this system at constitutional level and then by clearly defining what and how private schools can and should also be allowed to engage in this system of public networks. Three years ago, if the Social Democrats initiative, together with their partners, had everyone accepted with sincerity or if the process had led to the end and voted, at least we would have known where we were. This is how we make a key mistake, we are discussing a law separated from an interpretation, whether the Constitutional Court, in the face of an apparently unclear constitutional dictatorship, can be a pillar on which the law is based in order to end this unconstitutionalness, we have entered into a completely political story from which we – the least important – will all come out of defeat, but I agree, we are putting into stress students, teachers, parents who do not deserve such treatment. The legislator, the National Assembly, may also decide that he does not wish to protect public education at constitutional level, that he does not wish to give him primate at this level, which is the legitimate and legal right of this assembly. But to try to avoid eliminating unconstitutionality at the highest possible level by clarifying what our fundamental social, national and constitutional values are, and this is avoiding the responsibility for which we have run and for which we have been elected. For this reason, we have repeatedly said that we oppose the adoption of the law first, when constitutional uncertainty should in fact be resolved and on which basis we will manage society. This does not mean exclusion from private initiative or private primary school, far from that. It means, however, from the point of view of social democracy, that we must first protect the public education system, in particular the public elementary school. At least the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will remember how difficult it was during the crisis to provide the basic resources for the functioning of the public education system, because when there was no money, there was no money. One way or another – I was sitting in Minister Pikal's office at the time – we were looking for a way through the intervention funds to prevent roofing in our primary schools, because there was no money for any other investment anyway. This must not happen to us and we must not impose on ourselves the task of financing the mass of everything unless we have first agreed to ensure a quality, upgraded, outstanding public education system throughout the vertical, not just in primary school work. After we have saved this part of the same accessibility and high quality, we have found that – and here we can also find out through the constitutional dictatorship – that we are a society of knowledge, that we want to invest in knowledge and that we need to invest in knowledge, and then, as far as I am concerned and I am first, we can talk about the need to increase the educational budget twice, and for science for sport, and start investing in selective stories. That would be the right decision. I agree with everyone, six private primary schools don't threaten anyone. But then why do we close the branches in the border belt, where it is crucial that Slovenian villages also exist so that the national area is not lost in language, culturally? Because we set a fictitious standard that there should be 5 children, there are 4, and we close the branch school somewhere on the periphery, because at a value level we allow ourselves not to be publicly defined to take care of what is the pillar of the development of this society, and this is quality, public and accessible education throughout the vertical. And since we're rich enough company, we can afford his upgrade by supporting the private. But first it will be necessary to resolve this dilemma at constitutional level and then to regulate the law. That is why I will not support this bill, but I appreciate the effort. I'm sorry it ended up here, but I really appreciate the efforts made by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Thank you very much. I'll conclude. We will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 27. At the time of the day, this is to the defence of the interim report on public procurement at the investment in Block 6 tesh. The interim report was submitted by the Investigative Commission for the purpose of examining the political responsibilities of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Matjaž Hanzk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members, Members and all those accompanying the work of the Investigative Commission to identify the political responsibilities of public function holders in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica! At its 3rd meeting, the Commission decided to break the evidence procedure into several substantively rounded and separate meaningfully connected sets. For the first substantively rounded whole, the Commission has focused on finding answers to questions concerning quality data, stocks and the purchase price of coal to be used in the TEC. The reason was that the price of coal, as demonstrated by the parliamentary investigation, was an important factor in the decision of Members to turn on the green light for the so-called guarantee law by their vote. From the interim report we received last year, we can conclude that investors in Block 6 have made a lot of misleading decisions on the continuation of the investment, and in particular in the decision to support retention for investment. If the content of the first report is focused on the manipulation of those who carried out the investment, this second interim report focuses mainly on the functioning of the State, ministries and government officials who should act in the interests of the State and the community by law and by oath. This is the issue of public procurement defined by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of procurement procedures for contracting entities in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector and in 2004 committed the EU, as well as in 2006 by the adoption of the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors in the Slovenian National Assembly. In the parliamentary inquiry, members of the commission of inquiry and their deputies on the issue of procurement have examined the suspicion that stakeholders should abuse their political influence and enable infringements of the directive. In doing so, within a specific purpose of the parliamentary investigation, we identified political responsibility for the alleged suspension of duty, identified the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions due to suspicion that they had allowed non-compliance with the law governing public procurement and allowed the validity of contracts with foreign and domestic suppliers, thereby leaving the obligation to determine the nullity of the contracts in question. Let me immediately begin by summarizing the decision taken by the Commission following a careful analysis of the multitude of documents we received from those involved and after the hearing of the witnesses. At the initial request of the National Assembly to confirm or reject the suspicion that the impact of the policy would lead to a breach of the directive, we can respond firmly. When adopting the Public Procurement Act, the political impact helped to ensure that the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant was not conducted in accordance with the directive and the law. At its 109th meeting in February 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is undoubtedly a politically representative body, adopted, by a legally inadequate decision, a list of contracting entities without 12 electricity producers as an addition to the Order of Contractors under the Public Procurement Act. This decision was the first in a series of political influences to give rise to violations of the Directive. The competent authorities, from governments, ministries, legal advisers to government offices, have taken six years to complete the list of contracting entities as an annex to the regulation, which is a sub-legislative act of law, which was the basis for the arguments of the Italian Power Plant, that the investment in Block 6 did not comply with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act and the requirements of the European Union Directive. At that time, all the contracts were signed and all the work in the project was done. If they did not comply with the law, the investor proved with three false arguments regarding the public procurement undertakings. I'll talk about these arguments at the end. How was the non-admission of the law or the adoption of the law and the non-admission of the regulation? On 31 March 2004, the said Directive was published, and on 7 January 2007, the Public Procurement Act entered into force, which was intended to transpose into Slovenian law 3 years earlier the adopted EU Directive. The law should be followed by a regulation on the lists of contracting entities. It should include all public companies. This Directive defines, in Article 2, undertakings over which public authorities may exercise, directly or indirectly, a dominant influence because of their ownership, their financial cooperation in them or the rules governing them. This definition also clearly applies to the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, which is owned by the Slovenian Power Plant, 100 % owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Bajuk, and 11 other companies were included in the regulation, which was opposed by the Minister of Economy of Mag. The visa holder, who was also the President of the HSE Supervisory Board and the President of the RS Economics Committee, proposed further coordination. On 12 February 2007, the Ministry of Finance replied to the Ministry of the Economy that when electricity producers were removed from the list of contracting entities, the question of the existence of actual competition was raised. According to the Ministry, one of the conditions for the activity to be excluded from the law is that it is shown to be both formal and actual competition. The Ministry of Finance further states that the law on the identification of areas in which competition is formally and effectively ensured on the market provides for a special formal procedure to be initiated before the European Commission. They did it their way. Despite these warnings from the Ministry of the Interior, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at its 119th meeting, in January 2007, that regulation on the list of non-electric power suppliers, as proposed by the Ministry of Economy. At the same time, the Government ordered the Minister of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, to obtain an opinion from the European Commission on the status of electricity producers as contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act. In this regard, the Government has violated the law itself adopted and the directive which has laid down the framework for admissibility to this law. They have also extended the wrong view that TES is not bound by the Public Procurement Act, since it is not listed in the Regulation. From a legal misinterpretation, it has laid down the law, the failure to notify the European Commission and the abandonment of the search for an authentic interpretation, by laying down the European Directives in the European Commission, it is possible to conclude on intentionally inappropriate action and a conscious failure to implement fully uniform provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the Directive with a view to impractical implementation of the investment in Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šostanyj. The political responsibility for this is undoubtedly borne by the instigator of the wrong decision by the then Minister for the Magnetic Economy. Andrej Vizjak, Dr Andrej Bajuk, who did not implement the decision of the Government and did not inform the Commission of the amendment of the regulation, as well as their assumed President Janez Janša. In the following years, the law has been amended four times, but the regulation remains the same. The Regulation and its application were again discussed in 2011 when the Member of the National Assembly, Tadej Slapnik, sent a written initiative on the legality of the procurement of works, goods and services of contracting entities in the energy field addressed to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Francija Križanič, and to the Minister of Economy of Mags. Darjo Radic. He suggested that electricity producers in Slovenia should also be included among the contracting authorities in accordance with the procedures provided for in the Directive. It is clear from the reply of the ministries to the Member that the next Government was also aware of the procedures prescribed for setting exceptions. In doing so, the Ministry of Finance, or Minister Križanič, was consciously avoiding the regulation of the problem, even though the procurement was part of its portfolio. On the contrary, it was the Ministry of Economy and its Minister of Mag. Radić considers that the entities under consideration have, at the discretion of the Ministry of the Economy, an undisputed status of contracting authority under the Public Procurement Act and proposed that the Ministry of Finance initiate a procedure to supplement that list. Mag. Radic also requested that these companies comply with the Public Procurement Act, although they are not listed, but the regulation was not amended until 2 years after it was implemented by Dr. Šuštersič's next government finance minister. It is incomprehensible to waive the mandatory action of the Minister responsible for Finance, Dr. Francj Križanič, because public procurement belongs to the Ministry of Finance. The suspension of the duty is evident from his testimony and is a confirmation of his political responsibility. The awareness of the duty of conduct has been demonstrated by a response to the Member of Parliament's initiative, Mr Tadej Slapnik. He is also politically responsible Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, because energy belonged to his department. There is no doubt that the President of the then government, Borut Pahor, is also politically responsible for the suspension of the obligation to act, which should ensure the proper and legitimate conduct of the Government. There's only one thing I'd like to add if I still have time. The three points with which they argued that they were not debtors were important. The first is the most important excuse why they are not subject to the Public Procurement Act – because the investment in the 6th block of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant is not included in the Regulation, so it is not on the list of the debtors which is the Annex to the Regulation. This argument was mostly used and was believed and possessed by a large majority, but at the same time it was the most severe. Those who are bound shall lay down the law and the directive and not the list. The list is only an auxiliary document and in no case can it change the criteria laid down by the law and the directive. This was also the case in most cases for the European Court of Justice, as well as for the State Audit Commission. The government should adopt the regulation proposed by the Minister of Finance, Dr Bajuk, and the undertakings under the regulation that would consider that they do not belong there should initiate an appropriate identification procedure, as is said before the European Commission. The second argument was that there was an error in the translation of the directive. In doing so, we can ask ourselves whether one error in translation means that the whole state concept and development change because someone has changed words. The error was expected because the Slovenian translation of the European Directive lost part of the terminology included in the English text, the original. Of course it doesn't. While the Slovenian translation does not specify with any adjective that in the first paragraph there is a talk on contracting entities of a public nature, this is clear from the context and does not lead to ambiguity, since in both cases there is talk about contracting entities subject to the Directive. In this respect, too, there is no basis for the claim that the translation of the Directive is ambiguous and that it led to ambiguity in Article 3 of the Public Procurement Act. And thirdly, the Directive is in force. Even if the translation was wrong, the requirements of the Directive should apply directly to the TEC and the other 11 debtors. Otherwise, it is generally considered that the Directives are binding on Member States only with regard to the results to be achieved within a certain time limit and allow for the choice of form and modalities for their implementation. The national legislation must therefore adopt a so-called national implementing act amending domestic legislation in the light of the principles of the Directive and thus ensure the real effect of law in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation referred to in Article 4, paragraph 3, of the Treaty on European Union. When a Member State issues a legal act and this is ambiguous, the Directive requires a conformal interpretation of the act, which of course has not happened here. Despite these principles, the Court of Justice of the European Union has laid down the following conditions under which the Directive applies directly: transposition into domestic law has not been carried out or has been carried out incorrectly; the second point, the provisions of the Directive are substantively unconditional and sufficiently clear and precise. Therefore, if a translation error were to be made, the requirements of the Directive would apply, since in this case the first point would apply. This is said to have been incorrect in European law, and certainly the provisions of the Directive were unconditional and sufficiently clear and precise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u100	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the conclusions of this interim report, as read by the President of the Commission of Inquiry. I also agree with this, although I was later included in this committee, that the conclusion of this report is correct, that we have a somehow kidnapped state, and also with what one of the interrogators said that we also have a forced public interest. In this report, it is well described what the Commission of Inquiry has found in its work that there have been certain interests here, not only the lobbies from the background, but also certain political parties, that the easiest way, perhaps not in some interest that certain money is removed here from this process, is not to select the most favourable contractor, but that these public contracts are not subject to the Public Procurement Act and also to the European Directive adopted in 2004, which is binding on Slovenia. This Directive has been played out, and so has the Public Procurement Act. In order to exclude 12 companies from this Regulation without being subject to the Public Procurement Act, it came from the Minister of Economy of Mr Visiak, who was not so directly involved in this. Perhaps interest was also greater for other companies, not only for the Chestnut thermal power plant. Also with regard to the testimony of the then Prime Minister, I agree with the President of the Commission that the then Prime Minister, when the Government at its 109th meeting in 2007, decided that both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance were interested in the European Commission, whether this regulation was correct or not – this was not done and I also said in the hearing, my opinion is that the Prime Minister probably did not know that it was not done. Both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. Why wasn't that done? Perhaps back then, some lobbyists pressured individual ministries, although, as was the case with correspondence at the time, Minister Bajuk objected to the exclusion of these 12 companies from this obligation, but was voted on by the Government. That this was not then found out on the European Commission, and the subordinates to Minister Bajuk probably did not comply with his order or order. The main thing was that the state took six years, one month, and one day to fix it. During these 6 years, all important orders for TES 6 have been made. There must have been a lot of interest back here that these orders went this way. As far as we know, the police are now looking into these cases. I hope there will be an epilogue to determine how many orders have been made, or how much money has been spent in these orders to unknown accounts. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the conclusions of this commission of inquiry. We hope that in the final report, which will take place sometime in the spring, in the first months, there will be an epilogue that will also determine the allegations of individual people who have participated in these unusual procurement and business activities of TES 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u101	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u102	The 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj is a monument to a system that exploits the state and its institutions to provide capital and personal interests. It is a monument to systemic corruption, whose construction took place equally regardless of who was in power, SDS or Social Democrats. We have already said this in Levica in the first interim report of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The second report we are considering today only confirms our claim. The report notes what went wrong with the public procurement of the investment in TES 6. And everything went wrong, and on the basis of the report we can conclude that it was not a series of unfortunate coincidences, but a deliberate abandonment of duty at the very top of the policy. The decisive date of the start of the bottomless pit in Šostanje was 16 August 2006, when TES Director Uroš Rotnik took the decision to initiate the 6-block award procedure. Less than a month later, the HSE Supervisory Board decided to order the management to prepare written material regarding the construction of the 6th block until the next meeting of the Supervisory Board. The President of the Supervisory Board was then Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak and other members were Andrej Aplenc, Franci Križanič, Franc Bogovic, Franc Ervin Janežič, Janez Požar and employees. Zlatka Zorko from TEŠ then sent tender documentation for the selection of tenderers for the delivery of the main technology equipment to Petr Zajc to the European Investment Bank, which had no comments on the documentation sent. It is important that Zajc has not demonstrated any powers to assess the tender documentation and to give international opinions on behalf of the European Investment Bank and that the opinion it sent does not have any characteristics of the official document of the investment bank. Less than 2 months after Rotnikov’s decision to initiate the award procedure, an invitation to tender for the selection of main equipment suppliers was already published in the European Official Journal. All these acts were illegal. Only in December 2006 did the Government, as the HSE Assembly, adopt the HSE Development Plan 2006-2015, where the investment in the 6th bloc was for the first time envisaged. So it's only after all these steps have happened. The political responsibility for this is vested in all previously designated members of the Supervisory Board. These are members of SDS, SD, Desus and New Slovenia. Of course, the story doesn't end here. In February 2007, the Janševa government removes TES from the list of liabilities under the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy, transport and postal services. From here on out, all investments in TES 6 were no longer subject to public procurement, which is the main reason why 1.4 billion Euros of deep hole was dug in Scotland. Although the government ordered the Ministry of Finance to obtain, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, an opinion from the European Commission on whether electricity producers, which are 100 % state-owned and have no competition on the market, are indeed bound by this law. This decision has never been implemented. The then Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk of New Slovenia and Andrej Vizjak of SDS, together with his then Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša, are responsible for this. We can conclude that it was intentionally inappropriate action and a deliberate failure to implement the fully uniform provisions of the above-mentioned law and the two European directives governing this specific part of the public procurement, all with a view to imprecisely implementing the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. Although the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services had been amended four times by 2013, no government had withdrawn TEC from the list of companies for which this law does not apply. Despite the fact that two years earlier, in 2011, one of the members of the then National Assembly to the then Minister of Finance, France Križanič, and Minister of Economy, Darjo Radic, addressed the initiative on the legality of the procurement of goods and works in the energy field, in which the Minister and the Minister called for electricity producers to be included as public procurement undertakings, this did not happen. Nothing happened, although in response to the initiative, ministers showed that they were aware of the fact that electricity producers should be directly or indirectly owned by public procurement undertakings. This recognition, however, showed that Minister of Finance Franci Križanič and Minister of Economy Darja Radic, or in particular her predecessor, Matthew Lahovnik, have abandoned their obligation to act and that the then Prime Minister Borut Pahor, as their chairman, is also responsible. The second interim report of the Investigative Commission on the political responsibility of public function holders in investing in Block 6 of the Infrastructural Power Plant of Šostanj confirms that the impact of the policy has allowed infringements of Directive 2004/17 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of procurement procedures for contracting entities in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector or the law transposing this Directive into our legal order. The report concludes by agreeing with the Commission's opinion on anti-corruption, which stated that, I quote, "the limited non-response of the various national authorities was not primarily due to the conduct of professional services in individual offices or ministries, but rather to the effects and political decisions". End of quote. Therefore, we can assume that the conduct of an investment in Block 6 has all the characteristics that we can call the hijacked country. In contrast to the first interim report, the second report also provides the names of those who have made it possible to kidnap the country and build the overpaid block of 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. These were joint heads of government, ministers and members of the Supervisory Boards: Borut Pahor from SD; Ivan Janez Janša from SDS; Andrej Vizjak, again SDS; Matej Lahovnik, Zares; Franci Križanič, again SD; Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija; Andrej Applenc, SDS; Franc Bogovič from SLS; Franc Ervin Janežič from Desus and Janez Požar from New Slovenia. In Levica, we will support the investigative commission's report and hope that we will soon be able to consider the final report and that someone responsible will be behind the counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Maruša Škopac will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u104	The complications surrounding the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant have been the subject of professional, political and broader social controversy for many years. In the early stages of investment, there were questions about public sustainability and the consequences that could affect the Slovenian energy market in the long term. In 2004, the Šostanj thermal power plant classified and adopted a strategic development plan in order to replace technologically obsolete and economically non-profitable remaining blocks of the thermal power plant with its 600 megawatts. However, all governments have been involved in further decisions necessary for the implementation of this project for the next 10 years. In public, the investment was the most resilient in the phase when the price of the project began to exceed the values that would maintain the long-term sustainability and economic viability of the project. In 2012, the National Assembly adopted a law granting the loan guarantee to the European Investment Bank of 440 million for an investment that eventually exceeded all the projected values and reached a dizzying billion of EUR 440 million. It is more than clear that such a large project would never have come to life and would never have created such a devastating financial picture if it did not have strong support for the political environment. The parliamentary investigation was set up precisely to investigate the circumstances of the political impact and to find politically responsible actors who, at key moments, made contested decisions or did not respond to the circumstances when they were required to do so, and should also act on the basis of their role. The Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to establish the political responsibility of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the TEC was set up in January 2015. For its starting point, it set out its objectives to explore the circumstances of public procurement in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica, the increase in the power of Block 6 and the price of investment, supply, quality and value of coal, prices and stocks in Coal Velenje and to explore the response of the Government, ministries, HSE, TES and Coal Velenje to decisions taken in key periods. The first interim report of the Commission of Inquiry was adopted in January this year. The findings related to the quality of coal, stocks and the buying-in price of the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant, and indicated the distortions that fundamentally changed the results of the calculations in favour of the economy of the investment in Block 6. In doing so, it should be pointed out that these frauds were solely by the management of the Velenje Coal and the management of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. These misleading informations were followed by political decisions by economic operators and their management. In the following part, the Commission of Inquiry focused on the investigation of other important circumstances, namely public procurement issues in connection with the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. At the stage of obtaining evidence and interrogating individual actors as witnesses in the process, it has been shown that two governments and competent government authorities, in particular the ministries responsible for finance, infrastructure and the economy, who were responsible for carrying out the construction project of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, have knowingly played out legislation to enable them to make an investment in a manner that is untransparent, publicly sustainable and socially irresponsible. Šostanj’s thermal power plant was excluded from the list of public procurement undertakings, which led to the complete failure to control the implementation of the project. For a better understanding of the financial consequences of non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act, there was only one part of the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, to give an example of the selection of the contractor for the construction of the cooling tower. On 7 July 2010, Dr. Uroš Rotnik signed a contract with Rudis, d.d., as a consortium holder, with Primors and German refrigeration equipment manufacturers, despite the fact that the SCT and its Belgian partner offered better technology in the joint offer for more than 3 million cheaper. As if that were not enough, only 3 weeks after the contract with the more expensive bidder was signed an annex to the contract of EUR 6 million. The refrigeration tower was thus paid EUR 30 million in TES, despite the fact that SCT and its Belgian partner offered performance for about EUR 20 million. Since the works of Rudis were awarded without the application of the procurement procedure under the Public Procurement Act, the unelected tenderer had no right to review the tender and no possibility of appeal before the State Audit Commission. This is a visual representation of how funds are spent on investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. This exemption in the field of public procurement was made in 2007 when a government regulation on the lists of contracting entities, sector-specific Community legislation, building and service lists, mandatory information was adopted in publications, descriptions of technical specifications and requirements to be met by the electronic ordering equipment which has been excluded from the list of debtors by the 12 electricity producers mentioned today, including the Termoelectrica Šostanj. In the period 2004 to 2008, Slovenia should, under the European Directive, draw up a list of public procurement undertakings in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector. In accordance with the directive, the Ministry of Finance, led by Andrej Bajuk at the time, prepared a list of contracting entities, but it was not agreed with by the economic ministry led by Andrej Vizjak. On 5 February 2007, Minister Vizjak sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the Government in which the Ministry of Economy opposes the Ministry of Finance with regard to the Regulation on the lists of contracting entities. The Ministry of Economy objected to the listing of 12 contracting entities on the basis that they were companies that did not meet the definition of a public law person. Among these 12 companies was also Thermal Power Plant Šostanj. The government has thus adopted a clean version of the contracting undertakings, which does not include these 12 energy companies. Here it is important to point out the direct responsibility of the then Minister of Vision and also the indirect responsibility of the then Prime Minister, Janez Janša, because the Government acted unlawfully at the time. In accordance with the Directive, the Government should list all these undertakings under the Public Procurement Act and then send a request to Brussels on the grounds that it considers that individual companies can be exempted from this list. Only on the basis of Brussels’ approval could these companies be deleted from the list of public procurement undertakings. In 2013 alone, following numerous calls, according to the KPK report on this subject, the State Audit Commission found that these energy companies are also a party to the Public Procurement Act. The Regulation was not completed with 12 energy companies until the time of the ministry of Janez Šuštersič. It is therefore possible to fully agree with the key findings on public procurement in the investment in Block 6 of the Thermoelectrica Šoštanj that direct political responsibility lies with the former ministers of the competent ministries in the field of finance and energy, Mr Andrej Vizjak, Mr Andrej Bajuk, Mr Franci Križanič and Mr Matej Lahovnik, and that the two then Prime Ministers, Mr Janez Janša and Mr Borut Pahor, have an objective responsibility because, by their function, they would have to investigate and take appropriate action in the light of the decisions taken and the many doubts raised by the professional public. It is also correct to state that the responsibility of ministers is not exactly the same as Minister Bajuk has drawn up the list correctly, in accordance with the directive, but that the then Government Minister Vizjak has clearly been stronger and has achieved that the list has been adopted in incomplete form. All the other ministers mentioned supported the list without 12 energy companies. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the key findings of the interim public procurement report on the investment in Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! As already said, we have an interim report on public procurement on investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica as the second interim report. The first discussed the start of the investment, notably the coal issue, where we came to some conclusions and the second report by the commission of inquiry to identify political responsibility as another document, a comprehensive report which initially contains the testimony of individual witnesses and, in conclusion, findings or certain conclusions. The fact is that the Public Procurement Regulation in 2007 did not contain companies that were excluded is also said to be energy companies. The fact that it has not only been excluded from the Czech Power Plant, but from the fact that 12 companies are not uniquely linked to the fact that this was a key reason for any anomaly in the TES 6 project. Because if we agree to this fact, obviously all projects run by the Public Procurement Act – we are talking about the construction of other infrastructure in the road area, in the railway area, the construction of numerous public institutions, hospitals and so on – should not have any problems if this were so easy to connect. The fact is that in the internal acts of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant as well as the HSE there are the same matters as provided for by the Public Procurement Act, the only relief given to the management of the company at that time was that the complaint did not hold back the proceedings. This was the only relief this company had outside the scope of public procurement. All other fines were also prescribed for this company. It is difficult to assess why these companies were not listed in 2007. There's probably some reason, but it's hard to agree that this, as I said, is the key reason that the investment was going in the wrong direction. The key contracts have also been signed substantially later, in 2009, and by then the next government, or anyone sitting at ministries, would probably react if it were as some would like to show, very clearly which companies belong to any list. We all know that European directives and recommendations are very large. In the implementation itself, it should also be pointed out that in the initial stage this investment, which was led by the company, was owned by 100 % of the state, but was managed as a private owner project. The country was not initially involved in the direct implementation of this project. The integration of ministries to a greater extent and the Government, and not least the National Assembly, occurred when changes occurred on energy markets, the fall in electricity prices and the emergence of HSE, as well as TES, simply occurred in the situation that without the State guarantee it would probably not be able to carry out the investment. At that time it also entered to a greater extent the Government, probably the pressure on the Government and also to a greater extent the pressure on Members, the National Assembly, to adopt the guarantee law. As I said, neither HSE nor TEC had any commitment as the holder of this investment in terms of ordering in their internal documents, acts which the management must respect, are practically the same requirements as in the Public Procurement Act and therefore no commitment has been given to these economic operators in this direction. However, we can agree that it is difficult to say that if the Public Procurement Act were directly applicable, a matter might be more transparent or not. However, as I said, the practice in Slovenia shows that all public procurement supporters, who have all the institutions and controls over themselves, do not respect this in practice and it is also an act of acting, so it is always the responsibility of those who have to process certain projects to carry out individual sets. In this direction, we have also been able to see on the Commission that individual entities directly involved in the execution of individual orders have given very contradictory comments or answers. From this point of view, the Commission has obtained a great deal of material in my view, and all the hearings have been useful. In the final report that the Commission is preparing somewhere for the start of next year, and here I thank the President for his constructive work, I believe that the remainder will be included from the findings that the Commission has been able to draw from the hearings. We do not oppose this report in our parliamentary group. To conclude, however, it might be precisely that no law and no coercion ensures the implementation of such a major project if the people directly involved in the implementation do not respect the rules of the game, which are also recorded in other documents. The Public Procurement Act can only be one of those that would prevent any kind of tampering with the procurement of materials and services in the Termoelectrica Šostanj project, building block 6. As it is said, however, the investment itself, in the opinion of the Commission and after hearings so far, was actually mismanaged by the actors in charge of implementing the project itself. We will not oppose the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u108	Dear and respectable all present, a beautiful greeting from my side too! At the 3rd meeting at the time of the preparatory work, the Investigative Commission decided to break the evidence procedure into materially rounded and meaningfully connected but simultaneously connected sets leading together to the purpose of a specific parliamentary investigation. At its third session, it thus defined the following content sets, which together cover the subject-matter of the parliamentary inquiry as a whole, its purpose as well as its scope. Firstly, the issue of public procurement in the project in question. Secondly, the issue of increasing the power of Block 6 and the price of investment. Thirdly, issues related to quality supply, heating value, price and stocks of coal in Coal Velenje. Fourthly, the question of the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, ministries, management of HSE, d.o.o., Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, d.o.o., and Premogovnik Velenje, d.d., to decisions of the National Assembly. This time, the second interim report of the Commission of Inquiry presents a parliamentary inquiry carried out in relation to point 1, which is the question of public procurement in the case of the construction of block 6 in the Šostanj Termoelectricarium. In a parliamentary inquiry, members of the commission of inquiry and their deputies on the issue of public procurement in the project in question examined the reason for the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, suspected that stakeholders should abuse their political influence and enable infringements of Directive 2004/17 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31. 3. 2004 on the coordination of procurement procedures in the water, energy and transport sectors and in the postal services sector, or in the law governing procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. In this regard, we have sought, within the specific purpose of the parliamentary investigation, to determine why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is abandoning the identification and enforcement of compensation liability of state-owned enterprises and supervisors, namely HSE and the Termoelectrica Šostanj, to establish political responsibility for the alleged abandonment of duty and the engagement of the State defence authorities to protect the material interests of the Republic of Slovenia, to establish the political responsibility of individual public function holders due to suspicion that they have allowed non-compliance with the law governing public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services, and to allow the validity of contracts with foreign and domestic suppliers, thereby abandoning the obligation to determine the nullity of the contracts in question. The present interim report, which is the content of the continuation of the interim report, EPA 1570-VII of 3. 11. For the European Parliament and of the Council 1. 2017 at the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, even this time concentrated presents the progress of the parliamentary investigation procedure, which was important for the parliamentary inquiry in relation to public procurement. The earlier part of the second interim report also mentions first the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry in relation to public procurement, some of the facts about the familiarity with the investment programme The deployment of the block of 6 power 600 MW in the TEC and the evaluation of the project. For the first time, the investment programme, revision 1, April 2006, is worth €637 million in the block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanj. EUR 598,7 million plus the financing cost of EUR 38,3 million. Secondly, at the eighth meeting of the HSE Supervisory Board, the decision was adopted: HSE Supervisory Board, d.o.o., took note of the investment programme. Thirdly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the founder of HSE, d. o. o., of 7. 12. At its 100th meeting, the Council adopted the HSE Development Plan 2006-2025 with a view to 2025. The investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant is recorded on page 38 in the first-priority project set at €598.7 million. The essential findings of the procurement issue in the case at issue. Let me immediately begin by summarizing the decision taken by the Commission following a careful analysis of the mass of documents received from the witnesses involved and the hearing. At the initial request of the National Assembly to confirm or reject the suspicion that the impact of the policy would lead to a breach of Directive 2004/17EC, we can respond firmly. When adopting the Public Procurement Act, the political impact helped to ensure that the investment in the 6th block of the Termoelectric power plant of Šostanj was not conducted in accordance with the Directive and in accordance with the law. The fact is that Directive 204/17EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 December 2001 was not respected in the case of investment in the Sixth Block of the Heat Power Plant of Šostanj. 3. 2004 on the coordination of procurement procedures in the water, energy and transport sectors and in the postal sector, do so or act regulating public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services, as well as the Law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. At its 109th regular meeting on 5 February 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is undoubtedly a politically representative body, adopted a list of contracting entities without twelve electricity producers as an addendum to the Order on Lists of Contracting Parties, Community Sectoral Legislation, Construction and Services Lists, Compulsory Information in Publications, Descriptions of Technical Specifications and Requirements to be met by Electronic Procurement Equipment. This Decision was the first in a series of political influences to infring on Directive 2004/17EC. All competent authorities in the country, from governments, ministers, legal advisers, government officials took up to six years to complete the Order on Lists of Clients as annexes to the Act, which was the basis for the argument of the Termoelectrica Šostanj d.o.o. that the investment in Block 6 did not comply with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act and Directive 2004/17EC. At that time, all the contracts were signed and all the work in the project was done. That the investor did not comply with the law, he proved with three false arguments regarding the public procurement undertakings. First time. The strongest excuse why investment and procurement were not conducted according to the principles of public procurement was that it was not included in the regulation, so it is not on the list. This argument was mostly used and was believed and possessed by a large majority, but at the same time it was the most severe. Those who are bound shall lay down the law and the directive and not the list. The list is only an auxiliary document and in no case can it change the criteria laid down in the law and the directive. In a number of cases, the European Court of Justice, as well as the State Audit Commission, decided to review the procedures for the award of public contracts 15. 11. 2013 It is incomprehensible that it took six years for the issue of who is responsible for the procurement to be resolved. The right path, Your Honor, would be next. The government should adopt the regulation proposed by the Minister of Finance, Dr Bayuk, and the undertakings under the regulation that would consider that they do not belong there should initiate the identification procedure. In examining the reasons why Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant was not on the list, there is a suspicion of conscious manipulation with a view to avoiding the control required by the Public Procurement Act to invest in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant. Another distortion was that the translation of the directive was a mistake when the Slovenian translation of the European Directive lost part of the terminology that includes the English text, i.e. the original. In such an argument, we can more than seriously imagine how some error in translation can guide the management of a major project such as the project of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. An error was expected when the Slovenian translation of the European Directive lost part of the terminology that includes the original English text. The latter has two concepts: Contracting Authority and Contracting Entity. In the Slovenian translation, the concept of contracting parties fell out, resulting in narrowing the understanding of entities bound to respect the guidelines of the Public Procurement Directive. Following the procedure for the implementation of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, only the Slovenian translation of the Directive has been taken into account in the adoption of the law and therefore, according to the TES and HSE, do not belong to the public procurement obligation. And that's not true. While the Slovenian translation does not specify with any adjective that in the first paragraph there is a talk on contracting entities of a public nature, this is clear from the context and does not lead to ambiguity, since in both cases there is talk about contracting entities subject to the Directive. In this respect too, there is no basis for the claim that the translation of the Directive is ambiguous and that it led to ambiguity in Article 3 of the Public Procurement Act. However, even if it were to be considered that the translation was wrong, TEC and the other 11 abandoned companies should be liable, since in this case the directive would apply directly, since TES is owned by HSE d. o. o. and is owned by the Republic of Slovenia in 100 %. Otherwise, it is generally the case that the Directives are binding on Member States only on the results to be achieved within a certain time limit and allow them to choose the form and means of implementing them. The national legislation must therefore adopt a so-called national implementing act by which domestic legislation amends in the light of the principles of the Directive, thereby ensuring the real effect of law in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation referred to in Article TEU, paragraph 3. When a Member State issues a legal act and it is ambiguous, it is necessary for the Directive to have a conformal interpretation of the act. However, despite these principles, the Court of Justice of the European Union has laid down the following conditions under which the Directive is directly applicable. Firstly, the transposition into domestic law was not carried out or carried out incorrectly. Secondly, the provisions of the Directive are both substantively unconditional and sufficiently clear and precise and confer rights on individuals. If we were to hold a claim on the wrong translation, the first two conditions would determine the direct validity of the European Directive. Conclusion. For the end one more time at a time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u110	Yeah, I'm almost done. We support this report in Desus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u111	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our position will be considerably shorter than our colleague. The fundamental task of the State is to carry out its mission to ensure the effective functioning of its social, legal, economic, environmental and all other functions, which are key to ensuring a decent life for citizens and citizens and allow for solidarity in a society that must be just. This means that the state provides essential development elements, enables equality, opportunities and opportunities and ensures that society enforces legality and justice at all levels without exception. The task of the State is to respond adequately to any deviations and attempts to discourage social solidarity, development potentials and fundamental justice, regardless of who is the holder of such attempts or deviations. We have repeatedly stressed and emphasised today our confidence in the efficiency and ability of the rule of law to put before the time of justice all those who have ever and in any way participated in illegal transactions against their own community, the country, against solidarity, which is the basis of our future. As we supported the Commission's first interim report on the identification of political responsibility in the construction of the Sixth Block of the Termoelectrica Šoštanj, we will also support the second interim report, which deals in more detail with the issue of public procurement in this investment. It is crucial that they disclose all errors in procedures, all systems of pressure and brakes and, most importantly, all possible illegal practices, because only in future urgent investments for the development of our country will we be able to lead differently, with fewer mistakes, risks and with more confidence from citizens and citizens, so that both professional and policy in our country are able to carry out the most successful projects. Social Democrats will thus support the findings of the commission of inquiry in the hope that the final report and the result will not only be a political assessment of who at the moment could do something or do something differently, but a declaration of actually committed crimes, but not generally, but by the names and surnames of those found to have acted contrary to the most fundamental norms of our community and must be brought before the competent courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report and on the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you very much. In any event, I thank you on my behalf and on behalf of the members and members of the Commission and those professional workers who helped prepare this report for support. I just want to add some information. The final report was mentioned several times. The final report will certainly be before the end of the mandate. The plan is, not the plan, otherwise it is no longer going to be written by the end of January, so that the Commission could then have a month to discuss and then it's just a matter of procedure. About the public procurement. Reliable, public procurement, whether we have it or not, is not the only thing that can prevent various corruption. Public procurement, I think, is not even due to those who are doing what is right and what is right, but among the various national actors, we know that there are many who are not doing what is right and the money is leaving. The European Commission has also adopted, presented, with confidence, a directive to prevent these acts. I am also sure that no law and no police can fully prevent any crime, corruption and so on. However, I think it can reduce both corruption and the desire for corruption. I do not hope to say that the investment was therefore twice or three times more expensive because it did not comply with the Public Procurement Act, but we cannot say that it is not. In one case, mentioned by a colleague, the Vice-President of the Commission, this has already proved to be the case, but, of course, it is necessary to respect its own laws. I might have something else to say in the meantime, if not in the end. I have nothing special right now, because they weren't specific requirements either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mr. Marjan Dolinšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u116	In 2011, I was elected to this National Assembly for the first time, and I remember that soon, somewhere after the beginning of my mandate, a then Member of Social Democrats, Srečko Meh, who convinced us that it was imperative to adopt a guarantee law for this investment in TES 6. And then it was also said that if this guarantee law was not passed, the investment would end or collapse, anyway. At that time, it was also said that at least EUR 25 million had already been invested in the project and that it was absolutely pointless to stop it because it could be a loss of these funds. I recall that at that time we were the only parliamentary group, the New Slovenia Group, which was completely opposed to this guarantee law. You can think of the pressures on us that these lobbyists, who pushed TER 6 forward, were extremely well paid, also had good influences, and at one point there were all kinds of unreal articles about us in the media, when we have no idea how we are with the Moon and similar stories. But these people were shameless liars because I remember then Minister Chernač gave the condition the price of coal. If they guarantee that the price of coal will be such, then he also agrees that this guarantee law is adopted. At least part of the profession that opposed this investment convinced us that, by no means, the price of coal could be that. We listened to them, and, as I said, we opposed this guarantee law. Minister Černač then received this assurance, which was a false assurance, which provided only and only for the continuation of the implementation policy and the continuation of the project. That it's a corruption monument, it's clear. We have paid more than a thousand 400 million euros for this monument. Comparable buildings were constructed elsewhere in the world between 750 and 900 million euros. These were, in a way, the real prices of such plants. So we also have a very real assessment of what corruption has been done here. The problem we are now seeing is that we all know that more than 400 million euros have disappeared here – and nothing. Who among these representatives is TES 6 in prison today? Who? Nobody. The former boss, who had an amazing EUR 3 million in his safe, then changed his mind that they were gone or that the story turned there. The fundamental question that we must ask ourselves here is how to proceed. And here I am grateful to the President of the Commission of Inquiry and also to the Commission of Inquiry that she has done some work to push things forward, because in the face of all the craziness of this government, it could very quickly happen that this project and these millions go into oblivion. I would just say, well, this is a matter of the past, as here is very often a phrase in this House, we are not talking about the past, and those who have collected 400 million euros would all be happy and happy because we have or have forgotten some of these things. The matter was clearly presented as to who was objectively responsible for the matter. The only thing I would have put into question in the inquiry committee's report was the fact that the investigative commission found some facts and threw all people in the same basket. If I touch, for example, the Prime Minister's position. Surely there is a difference between John Janša and Borut Pahor, as far as responsibility is concerned. And there was a difference between what possibility someone had of stopping this project. The difference between Finance Minister Bajuk and Križanič is also essential. But good. The Commission threw everything in the same basket. I would still rank this matter a little politically according to the weight of the responsibility that an individual had. Even when the court judges individual criminals, it says that the weight of his act was that, and that's why he's gonna get one year, the weight of that crime, and that criminal is that, and he's gonna get 10 years. That's practically the kind of thing that bothers me about the report. However, since this is an interim report, I think it can be improved by the end of the report. Therefore, my concrete proposal would be if we were to take this matter seriously, because it may otherwise appear that this report is “all-gliharic”. Thus, a false feeling can arise because the chairman of the commission of inquiry is someone who has not been, at least I think he was not in any of these parties mentioned in today's debate and that in terms of political accounting he throws it all together in one basket and says you are responsible. Okay, that's theoretically possible, but I'm just saying, if we want to improve this report qualitatively, it needs to be improved by the end of the discussion, or by the end of the report in this part, and clear where those points were, when any project could still be stopped, and when it was no longer possible. It seems crucial to me that these things are also discussed, when it was possible to redirect another matter, when the possibility was greater, when it was smaller. If I go back to this project again. The problem that will arise in Slovenian society is that if no one is responsible for this theft of these millions, if no one is sitting in prison, as some highly qualified criminals may be sitting in Iceland, then in a way that grieves people, puts them to sleep, leads them all to the same, that in this country we are rewarded, greater than you are a fish, you have more chance of breaking. And if you break it, it doesn't hurt you. Then there are those winged who are well known to all of us that a technical controller for 200 euro bribes gets 3 years in prison, while a former rewarder for 100 million damages gets 7 years in prison. It's just things that piss people off. I think this house is obliged to do the maximum that's in our jurisdiction to move this thing forward. The report of the Commission of Inquiry may be one of the things that preserves the memory of the theft and that may also give the authorities of the country specific material things that they can help themselves with in pursuit. However, it is certainly necessary to insist on this until those responsible for this matter are held accountable in the next term. However, historical damage was caused by this project. As the whole world moves against renewable energy sources, we are still moving against supply. When this coal is now producing a loss every month, others are rapidly investing in renewable energy sources. Why can we be even more angry and discontented about these matters? Because we have relatively good water resources that could be used much better. One thing is that there are several other Slovenian rivers that still have hydropotential and could make even better use of it. And another important thing is that people on the ground in particular remind us that Slovenia, because it is watery, unique for many small hydropower plants, is virtually impossible to build in Slovenia today due to violent bureaucratic and administrative complications. If these things were to be changed, facilitated, then we would take a major step forward so that the influence of TES 6 could be reduced and increasingly moved against renewable energy sources. Today the world is developing rapidly, information technology is coming everywhere, the world is using more energy, and needs will increase in Slovenia in the future, and here we will need to learn something from this TEC story and then drive the matter in a direction that we will, above all, take advantage of the potentials we have in the most rational way possible. I hope, as I said at the outset, that this report will also move something forward in law enforcement. Of course, I am grateful to all those who are working on this investigative committee for your work to try and push things forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go, Mr. Dolinshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you, Chairman. As if a colleague, who is unfortunately not here, did not even present his position, the unrelated Member, Mr Bojan Dobovšek, a great fighter against corruption. However, he obviously cares little about what is happening, even with today's point of view, although he is a great fighter for corruption. Let me just go to the point. First of all, it is necessary to commend the Commission of Inquiry, which has done part of its work, which has not yet completed it, and I hope that in the last part, the final report will also be an appropriate and appropriate conclusion. It's just an interesting report. We need to know something that the purpose of this commission of inquiry is to seek political responsibility. It is true that this can be the basis for law enforcement authorities, that prosecutions will also be carried out for all actors involved in this story. I must say, it is obvious that every honor is truly given to all those involved in the Shale Valley who have managed to play this game beautifully. This is the ability, unfortunately we are not so successful or very unsuccessful in the valley of Zasavje, because all energy has been shut down in Zasavje. Yeah, and she's getting stronger in the Valley of jester. Let's just leave it. I would like to point out in my mind what will happen today and tomorrow, let's leave science, results, findings and so on. I have also pointed out to the Infrastructure Committee several times that I do not know if I am being deceived by the feeling that in some part of my beard is still growing in this story. Otherwise, when this investment started, we didn't have different bodies, so let me put SDH in particular. Here, in this context, I would like to emphasise and point out, I hope that they are aware of SDH as well as SDH supervisors, because we have a person in the administration who is responsible for the field of energy. This is Mrs. Nada Popovic. From this place I call on Mrs Glavina and Mrs Popovic, I hope that there will also be a substantive meeting at least on the Infrastructure Committee, because there have been some results of a working group at SDH, which was appointed in 2015 and has done its job and has concluded its conclusion for the SDH administration, and later there was no serious information credible. In fact, the above findings - the various parameters have been overplayed, the entire analysis of this project has been made and the forecast for the future - indicate certain risks of the project, which are clearly reflected in the business plan and should be taken into account in the framework of the other documents of this company, the HSE development plan is being established. Why did I say the beard was still growing? I wouldn't want to go into specific details, but the question is, I'm going to count them as magnetograms so that tomorrow or one day someone will say that it hasn't been heard that it hasn't been seriously warned. I'm interested in the HSE business plan for at least five years. What is in this plan, what are the estimates and the numbers? In part, they predicted in their plan that in the next eight, nine, ten years, energy will go up by 60 per cent on global markets, as well as 70%. Yeah, it's a game of numbers. In the end, what you want to get out, you will adjust this and incomes, graph “screw” to the top, but the facts are a little different. That is why I am interested today and how this story will proceed tomorrow, because now it is our responsibility, us sitting here in this room. In return, we have found that two three governments have put it all through a good faith based on all the analyses and so on. Our big school is this partial report, and the question is, how tomorrow, what will happen to this project, how much minus is being created. It's still a secret. How many millions does TES 6 minus? In these documents, I think we have these competences to ask for an answer, whether a new plan has been drawn up in the long run, which has determined what the price will be without changing the price of the giant lignite twice again. The second thing is likely because it is already heard that coal will have to be imported. This means an additional investment, which means an unloading station that will cost several million. Where's the coal imports coming from? Existing technology does not allow the combustion of every coal as if someone had invented it. Furthermore, what is the real reality of today’s serious assessment, not the seduction that was heard years ago when the guarantee was issued, is that what is the average annual production of lignite, real, real, possible? What are the supplies? How many years? Will we last until 2050? Certain estimates, two or three years ago, were made not to allow. But I'm interested in a new one today. I think we should have that. So once again, SDH, which is now directly at the top, is responsible. There used to be no SDH, and now we have it. Annual production of TEŠ 6 in relation to 5th, what production, how many hours of operation at the annual level? This all affects how much the price and how many millions of euros will TES produce a minus each year. Someone's gonna have to cover that. I hope they're not taxpayers. But I'm afraid that's how it's gonna be in the end. But that's already our responsibility, here's all of us sitting here. I don't think that the project that started building just like this today, I don't know how everyone who was already in this temple of democracy could have let that happen. There was no special Law on Investment TES 6. That's how many of you had to say about the second track. At least there's a law. There's also surveillance from civilian structures. At the time, nothing happened to anyone, something happened in narrow closed circles. Politics knew. She didn't know. This will be done by the commission, and the results indicate that some people knew about certain things. Nothing was a coincidence. Nothing. TES began to be built in contravention of the resolution on the national energy programme. It's the opposite. That wasn't covered yet. So it wasn't just on the left, even on the sidewalk and across the sidewalk to the greenery. It's really hard to understand. It's hard. Let's take a look for tomorrow, because this TER 6 is going to have to be maintained. Say, "Yes, but now we'll lock him up if it turns out," see, that's a little irresponsible. But now everything needs to be done in such an optimisation, including some status change. We could say a lot more here. Now I'm interested in these questions, which I partially ordered. I personally don't know enough what's going on with TES. On the other hand, we hear about some damage. Who's gonna pay for this? I'm guessing it's not a hundred grand, but it's probably millions. It was also mentioned that we would sue Alstom for these mistakes. We're gonna spend our money, our money, our taxpayer's money again. And that's what I'm interested in today. Otherwise, we won't get these answers today. However, I hope that in the coming months we will also say something else on this subject. I'd like to get those answers, too. What was the Commission's conclusion, however, is only to be welcomed and it is a large school, a college from which it is necessary to draw from the findings for the future. A good follow-up, how one thing spins, if it is very well thought out, designed, and how hundreds of millions are put in their pockets. I'm gonna end up at this point. Once again, I hope that those mentioned by SDH will again be held accountable primarily from the SDH summit, Mrs Glavina, Mrs Nade Popovic, who is responsible for the energy field. I hope that in the future something will come up and give something away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u120	Thank you. Probably this interim report in the very story that we are dealing with today is not the most important for everything that has happened in this story around TES 6. Here we can find that the Italian power plant was exempted from the supervision of the Public Procurement Act. There may have been some irregularities here because of this. Certain operators or suppliers may have been contacted earlier for this reason. The biggest things have happened subsequently in the time we are considering today, and it has still been believed that electricity will be a megawatt hour in the future of €85.90. This investment, of course, bears this price. With the economic crisis, the price of electricity began to drop. This was found in 2008. At that time, a warning from the previous position, the Government of 2004-2008, when the Borut Pahor government came, warned that things had changed, that electricity was being priced and that the price of equipment of 600 megawatt thermoelectric power plants was significantly too high and that they would consider reducing or re-examined the purpose of the project, because the time was yet, the contract had not been signed, only EUR 25 million was lost for the reservation, which was irreversible, was not counted as a common cost, we were then informed Members, until the guarantee was confirmed. It might be the wisest thing to do, or they say it could be after the battle of the general, but at the time, if we went into a new contract, a new order, say a 500-megawatt thermoelectric power plant, which would be significantly cheaper, significantly more competitive for manufacturers than for 600-megawatts, would be a cost of 500, 600 million, not a billion 400. And the injustice was done at the time, I remember, when a fellow Member, Mr Andrej Vizjak, former Minister of Economy, asked the Prime Minister of the Government the question of the Parliament's debate on the meaning of this project TES 6, in view of the situation it was. In the National Assembly, a vote was taken, including the position at the time, a part of the position for the debate to take place. The debate was held, but the government at the time did not react. More. The President of the then government also said at the hearing that he did not know what the situation was, but we had a debate here in the National Assembly. And there's that point of fracture and the biggest guilt for the fate of this project. Interestingly, the investigative commission did not receive the government's magneticgrams when one of the interrogators warned the government that everything was going wrong, and it was at the time, it was known, which party hit it, and then it went into such a fate story TES 6. I've been listening to my colleagues here, too, so let's keep looking. I've read in one of the journals of one of the greatest energy scientists, that in fifteen, twenty years, electricity would be free of charge. Publicly good. And that the Chestnut thermal power plant will shut itself down. We bought some old iron. We also discussed what has already been mentioned here, on the Infrastructure Committee, around small hydropower plants. The nuclear power plant gives us 350 megawatts of our work, Slovenian. Small hydropower plants have the opportunity to produce 300 megawatts, which is half of the TEC, and there is no need for small hydropower plants to invest because private investors would finance, no guarantees, no credits, and we are defending that. I was then discussing in this direction, if we start now, now we let these investors build these little hydro power plants, because now is the time. Once the technology goes so far that we'll get the energy from the sun, it won't be worth it either. But with these little hydropower plants, we'd get in trouble and save a lot of security from the flood, and something else. The groundwater would have gone up a lot, there wouldn't have been so much drought. But no. An interesting statement was made on the board of one of these investors when one of the officials said years ago, "No, that's what the privates will do, why not just the state." That was the reason, and they made it complicated to the point that they couldn't get to the construction permit for these small hydropower plants. It's just the opposite in neighbouring countries. As far as electric cars are concerned, 30% of the electricity currently consumed is expected to consume traffic if it goes to electricity. Where are we gonna get this? Where will the country get the billion money that we now receive from the fuel excise budget, if that money is not available? Will the state tax the sun? That's all that's appropriate for the state to get that money. Where will development go? They also have an electric-powered truck, not just passenger cars. You have an offer to self-sustain solar cells, and it's not that expensive. The account is clean, but now, what's going to happen in the future when the technology gets better. If it is 15 years from now, the Shoštanj thermal power plant will be so burdensome for taxpayers, because I see no one else to pay for the loss of the thermal power plant, it will have to be shut down. Then they will close the mine and a special law will be passed to close the Velenje mine. How long will it take to close down? How much money will it take? Is this somewhere priced? Nowhere. I am sure that this project, or TES 6, will still cause a headache to many, including politicians, especially the Valley of Shale. Because they were greedy because they wanted to have energy, as if time had stopped, in their hands, to be rich with it. But time goes on. Instead of going to other sources that are available to us, where we don't need state money, guarantees and credits, and I don't know what else to get to energy, we, in some way, were forced here by the MPs who voted in favour of the guarantee because we were misled. When I listened to the speaker, how we should look ahead, I am interested in what this government has done in these three and a half years in this area. Where's the energy concept we've been waiting for so long? What has happened in this area? Nothing. It's just a dream. But that is not today's point, but we should discuss it thoroughly in this temple of democracy. Let's not look back. Wrong. I hope that the final report will produce some results, that the most responsible people will be found and that they will also respond. Here the ruling or the main coalition party has nothing to do with this as a client, but they have others. It's true, you have to look ahead, you have to plan. Someone needs to see a little bit longer, but apparently in the state administration, there's no view in bureaucrats. Not even in politics. That's why we're all getting ahead of ourselves, both on the left and on the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u121	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues! I regret that today we are no longer present in this Chamber to deal with this important subject. Before leaving the Chamber, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Hanzk, for having done his job very well with his team of other Members. I am particularly pleased that this Commission, unlike some others, has not sunk in a series of media headlights, has worked somewhat quietly, perhaps slightly outside the media, but is significantly more qualitative, and today we have before us a report that I can also take for the final report. When we went to the elections as candidates in 2014, as new parties as new faces, as is often said today, we also went to the bottom of such a mess as TES 6. Today we see that the development of energy is not going anywhere in the world in this direction, as some have imagined during that critical period, that it is going in a significantly greener direction and that it is more than obvious that this project was, in fact, as someone has already mentioned, a pumping project, but, if you want, also a burning of money. This project is not being paid directly from the budget today. It is true that HSE, which is the owner of TES, is a state-owned company, and that all this inherited investment, which has a very uncertain future, is taking money from a state-owned company, from HSE, TES, not to mention Drava power plants and other companies. As a result, I think it is so important that we may be discussing this matter a little more today. This can be not only a look back, but also a look forward to all similar projects that are still waiting for us in the future, or for which we are encouraged by different stakeholders. Be sure it's about energy projects, it's about roads, tracks, whatever you want. We must always have this project before us, which has been found without a doubt that the project, which has been the subject of a policy which has deliberately abandoned certain actions, has exempted certain companies from the public procurement system as envisaged for other companies. If someone asked me if I had any further comments, but if it were very picolovic on this interim report and on the main findings, I would say that maybe sometimes too much was written in the cellophane that irregularities were happening. I'd say there's been some deliberate omissions. That these irregularities did not happen on their own, but that they happened on purpose, despite warnings, all with a view to bringing this project to an end. It is not surprising to me today that some political parties are not too interested in this debate, that you were significantly more interested in the 300 000 euros in primary education than in the 500 million that hang above the state budget. But it's no wonder, given that you had or still have some hands in marmalade on this project. Well, that's not the only one. What bothers me in particular is that in this mandate we hear a lot of evidence at the expense of our party or this government about ethics and morality. This exposes various, including fiascos, such as one of the former ministers who had a forged master’s assignment. But all of this is a drop in the sea and very neglectful in projects such as TES 6, which I think are, I have no other expression, and I apologize, first-class pork for Slovenia. See, when we talk weekly, every day in this National Assembly about problems affecting our citizens — pensions, school meals, anything else, we ask ourselves too few questions about why we have problems like this, where they are, whose bad and deliberate bad decisions have led some to live significantly worse today than they could be. I'm not saying we could all do the same. Yet, some are significantly worse off because of such decisions. That's what bothers me so much more when we've been listening to all three years of different readings. I am confident that, as all projects were set up in this mandate, two years from now or three years from now, or four years from now, we will not have a story like TES 6. Today, in the light of a wide variety of conjectures, it was often heard that “we hope to get a conviction at the end of a sentence”. You know, today we are discussing the interim report of the National Assembly Commission. And this interim report contains the names of the persons politically responsible for this project. These are Andrej Vizjak, Andrej Bajuk, Franz Križanič, Matthew Lahovnik. I'm not saying it didn't come, we all know it, at least from the media, even to specific crimes by some actors. But today we are talking about political responsibility. And you know what's most worrying about this part? Where are these people? Those in criminal proceedings are somewhere, I don't know, at home or maybe somewhere on vacation, but that part of the policy that is responsible for it is at the summit of public opinion polls, I don't know, the President of the Republic. That's the most worrying. If we do not pour pure wine in such reports, if we do not present ourselves to the citizens, what has happened, who is responsible, then the wheels will continue, we will spin in a vicious circle, those some centres of power will rise back up again, and I think that in this case there is really no help in getting us out of some trap in the long run and catching some of the most transparent and developed countries. So I have no doubts as to whether to support this report or not. I hope we all will. Not only will some not oppose it, but they will actively support it and will also tell their constituents, the citizens, what they have supported today, that they will be informed of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u123	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u124	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are also very committed in the Slovenian Democratic Party and very professionally and well involved in the investigative commission. Investment TES 6 is a clear example of how investment should not be conducted, based on the findings of a good part of the members of the Board of Inquiry, in part on this interim report. We hope that the final report will bring more concrete conclusions, which is also our common intention to actually identify who are responsible for this investment, which has been conducted in a way that should not have been. This is a very good example of poor negative practices in managing this investment. That's a fact, and we absolutely can't. Somehow, the outline of this framework is being made of all these irregularities that have occurred in all the processes of this investment. If I start at the beginning. We know that a program of gradual mine closure was developed in 2027. I'm going to call them that, they're going to sit together, they're going to be the management of the mine, they're going to be called Teša and they're going to be in the municipality: "Yeah, let's do something in the Shaleska Valley so that this mining in the Shaleska Valley doesn't close." But how do you enforce it, how do you justify it? In fact, this was done with obvious intentional deception, such as coal stocks, coal burning values, and most of all coal prices. These were the basic parameters on which further studies, further projections, can then be carried out, justifying the investment of building a block of 6 thermal power plants. That's the basics. That's basic data. But this data was clearly intended to mislead both politics and the rest of the public, professions and so on. This was the basis for the start of an investment in TES 6. That was the basis. Then, at the very beginning of the construction, we know very well the whole way, from the first estimate of value, just below 700 million, then six innovations of the investment programme, then the sixth was never finally confirmed, five were confirmed, with an investment growth of between 700 million and 400 billion. Always with some new additional conditions justifying the increase in the investment of TES 6. A new export shaft, and these supplements here and there. They'll never be built. Never. It was only about justifying the growth of investment value. These are the facts. And that was a deliberate growth of the investment itself. It was also heard in the Shaleska Valley that at the expense of this investment the Shaleška Valley would be enriched with investments in tourism and so on. In short, this will also give impetus to the development of the Silesian Valley. Listen to the local environment. This is the information that these Februarys, who deliberately led this investment into the Shale Valley, have already debated and boasted about what they will build in the Shale Valley on this account. These are the facts. Let's listen to home-based discussions, information. I hope that the work of the Commission will continue to be so constructive and that the final report will give clear and precise irregularities on the table and consequently, as will be evident from this, including the responsibility of those who have actually made the biggest mistakes in this investment. The thing is very simple, it's only about whether it's in the interest that things end up the way they have to, or not. But I'd like to point out one segment. It's only six months before the new national elections. Will the commission finish the work to get the final epilogue and the final report? Will such and other reasons delay a little, and then the work of the commission falls into the water? To bring this thing to an end, it's your responsibility in the coalition. This is your job and your task to bring this matter to an end. It's my fear that you'll be stalling with these and other moves. It's true there's still some work to be done, but, coalition, it's up to you to bring the matter to an end. We, members of this committee, will participate constructively and actively in the further part of the afternoon or at night, however, any timetable you will draw up to bring the matter to an end. Give this my suggestion to take seriously that you will do this task, because you are the one who runs this thing, you are the coalition, you are the government. I'm counting on you to bring this matter to an end in this investigation. But it's not like two months before this thing ends, it's gonna fall into the water. This is up to you, and I expect that from you, from the government and from all the members of the commission of inquiry, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u125	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare Violeta Tomić and Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I'm not going to apologize for not wearing my jacket, even though I wanted it first. I'm running around town and I'm wearing T-shirts and it says, "Ride together, work together." You have worked together, distinguished gentlemen, a respected Mr Ljubo, who is also a member of this Commission. You've been riding together and you've been harassed by lunatics, as we call it in Maribor. That's a fact. But in this reference to the National Assembly and such references, the story goes somehow before that one would think that even the Bible should be corrected in order to write, “yeah, everyone has an original sin, everyone is guilty, only the SDS is never guilty; I am the prince of the Kingdom of Norway and Mr. Visak in the lower Saxon is a fairy-tale being.” Stop shitting him, gentlemen! I would first like to thank Hanzku for his work and Hanzek is an independent Member. We used to be together, now we're not. I still respect him. Even when you're breaking up, you have to walk away like a man. I admit that I was a little skeptical at the time, even to sometimes contradictory Mr Marinček, because after all, a very small group of Members lost two important actors who were very active in this. If you remember when we came to Parliament, when the United Left took over, the Yanshes started spitting and attacking us, especially Luka, and what Hanžek knows about turbines up and down, and then I became pitbull United Left because someone had to ramble back. I'd rather do something else in the National Assembly. But Janša also played this in the name of SD, even in crossing some roads into SMC and someone else, because the Prince of Darkness has to play it that way. That's a fact. Look, sparrows already know what TES 6 is. For those people who can't read this report, Cirman published a book. If SMC were really a new policy, perhaps Mrs Brenčičeva would not run for office, but those hundred thousand would be given for the consultant to get this book for each household. The mother of all Slovenian affairs is armed. The aunt of all Slovenian affairs is TES 6. The granddaughter of all Slovenian affairs will probably be SOME 2. And that's a fact. This is some of your scheming and intimidation, I don't know, with the refugees and everyone alive and up and down, we are the greatest terrorists ourselves or you who have cooked this and such affairs. And that's the point. Now I'm gonna leave Violeta for a few minutes. I would also touch Mr. Zorčič. Ethics and morality. You know, I'm a lecturer. What am I supposed to tell my students? Do you copy as the former Minister of Education, also a high-ranking officer who was in power for 335 minutes? Don't be as fucked up as Hanzek, I'm the one who's really doing the diplomas. That's more than that. No, gentlemen! Even that story, Janša can't prove a quarter million, Jankovic can't prove three million. Even if Violet couldn't prove 5,000 euros, that's the same thing to me. I'm sorry, Violeta. And that's what people should be asking themselves. Even a bag of surprises that you're somehow doing as a new policy. In this story, you were all literally out of line at the time. And you've probably been fucked in some of the parties, in the language of the people. Like Frutek fucked up Really, and then he kind of woke up at some point. I agree with Zorčič here. A lot of gentlemen are now highly respected. I got some information that I had before, 30 million that the governments, both Janševa and Alenka Bratušek, give as Cerarjeva for various and different advisers. These are the people who get cash for two parliamentary salaries a year. Where are we after 30 million counseling? You pay them all, even though you beat them a little bit like that. Also the legal lobby where SMC is. How many millions of people are disappearing in here. Until we get these people and such a policy out of Slovenian politics, we are done. Done at the municipal level like Maribor, where we got it, I am most often told there, you brought Fishtrek when we got even worse than we had before. Done in the National Assembly, ready if you want, on a level, I don't know, now I remember one thing, the Sugarfire Company. Damn it, they're fighting over there! Then you have, I don't know, a story, a club of jumpers, when one father decides to shut something down and not give it to others. People like that just need to be calmed down. And let people finally start thinking with their heads. People, when they go to the polls, they should vote for someone, not against someone. And then something will change. I know the president of the National Assembly, Comrade Milan, is a good chess player. I didn't. We have Vidmar's memorial. Vidmar wasn't just a good chess player, and I'm not gonna talk like Bell now, so if I had more time, I could talk about local energy supply for hours. We have energy that knows what and how to move. But we never really talk about energy poverty or energy inefficiency. We are also very energy-efficient in many areas. Here, too. Why do all these lights burn when there's so many of us? We could be in a smaller space after all, but I'm not kidding. But of course, that doesn't fit the energy lobby. Here are the very clear names, in Cirman's stories are very clear names and the extreme range of Slovenians is a car there is a gentleman who has been through leasings good cars. [[..]] But Mr. Zidar once waved for a good hour. And three people in Slovenia refused this hour. As long as we don't mess with any decision-making processes like this, we're done. This is some story TES 6 and some related stories. And I'm afraid, just like she's working quietly, some of the next nukes. Just because they wrote down concrete coal from a country, a child who works geography in primary school should blink a little bit — wait, why now? It's like we're gonna write that we're gonna be drinking the only wine in the cafeteria at the National Assembly. I guess any Member would look a little bit, if you'd just listen, but that's not going to work. Okay, well, I think I might be up for it. But you didn't see it. Come on, please, stop making a fool out of us! I will also leave Violeta for a few minutes, and I hope that this report will come to an end or I know it. Unless you block it because it won't match what Hanzek and the team discovered. That is another question, dear gentlemen, that you are crossing the energy lobby. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u127	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Franc, you've got me all wrong. As for forged diplomas, I agree with you, these are also things we need to talk about. But in one week we will be able to assess how much media space has been devoted to this issue, this interim report and today's session. We'll see that nothing. Today we talked for five hours about 300,000 euros for a religious program in primary schools. Now we're talking about half a billion damages for two hours, and we're getting close to the end. And that's what I'm talking about. It's not self-reflection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u129	We did not discuss the 300 000 euros for this purpose, we talked about financing public programmes in private schools. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, President. Thank you, Ducky, for leaving me a few minutes, as well as my colleague Hanzku, who has prepared this report, which we are very pleased with. But the debates I heard here were going in the direction, and I wash my hands. First of all, Tonin from Nova Slovenije stressed how Nova Slovenije was against and how it really bothers him that Hanžek was not in any of the parties who decided at the time. I think that's exactly the advantage of giving him independence. New Slovenia is among these names that we have before us, as well as beautifully represented by two representatives, we have names, Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija, Janez Požar, Nova Slovenija. They have no worse result than the SD, which has Borut Pahorj and Franc Križanič. Where are these people, as my friend Zorčič asked? In the first places of popularity. We have re-elected the President of the State, etc. The winner is SDS, which has three members: Ivan Janez Janša, Andrej Vizjak and Andrej Applenc. And he wonders, colleague Žnidar, who says that they are very committed to the SDS and participate in the commission so that the coalition does not somehow delay it. Why not? I am interested in what you will do with the political responsibility of your members listed here, with the President in charge. Dolinšek said how you could allow it. And I'm going to ask my colleague Dolinsk, and I can't because he's not here, okay, so how can SMC now let the new TER 6 go through NEK 2. When counterpart Hanžek asked Minister Gasperšič a question a while ago whether the expenditure for the second block of NEK 2 amounting to more than EUR 15 million was spent in accordance with public procurement legislation, Minister Gasperšič replied that the owner of NEK GEN energy, which, by the way, is 100 % state-owned, could not interfere with its business decision. How could you let this happen? It's the same story, or it started exactly the same. Thus, NEK 2 has not yet built a foundation stone, and EUR 15 million has already been spent on some research. According to my information, it was whether or not the ground was in the earthquake area. Since they paid EUR 2 million for this and the research said it was in the earthquake area, they ordered the next survey. And the next one said she was in an earthquake zone. And so they will spend 15 million to finally get one opinion that SOME 2 will not stand in the earthquake zone. In short, it is very bad in a country where people who have, not only to the elbows of marmalade, but to the shoulder, are still popular politicians, the highest listed and soon to be elections. I hope that voters will finally understand what kind of bottomless pit some have made possible or, as they say, the real euro incinerator was the TES 6 project. Give them another mandate, give them the whole state budget again, give them NEK 2 and endlessly tied hands. I think today's investigator can take one step further to prevent this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u131	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mrs Maruša Škopac and then to the conclusion of the debate, where there is also a representative of the proposaler Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u132	Thanks again for saying that. I listen carefully to the debates and views and the majority talk about everything else, not only about this report or they are already trying to make some of their views on what the final report will look like, which I believe will be dealt with by the Commission very soon. I must say that I am probably the most actively involved with the president on this committee, and I have no bad conscience regarding the report and all the answers we have in the materials. All the records of the interrogators are available to us and it would be very good for a number of people to read them and not just say what they read or told them. I also hope that we will get this report in its final form as soon as possible and that we can also finalize it, arrange it and come up with some concrete conclusions before the National Assembly and confirm it. Comrade Duck, I respect him very much, but sometimes I have to say that I find it difficult to agree with him, even though these escapades and explanations of all kinds can be interesting, interesting, but not always the most welcome. This business with us personally, I don't think it's an honor for him, given his name. When he talks about some, he should name them by name, not wrap them up with everyone and put them all in the same basket. I am also a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I am proud of this. If he has anything to do with me, let him just say it, but not generally he characterizes all people. He also said very nicely that we should try and accept reports, because the commissions in the National Assembly are important, and it is right that we have them. But I should also ask myself sometimes why he did not support the report on the ventricles when he blows up at everyone else's soul, what matters and what doesn't matter. So this segment, which is being processed by this interim report, is important that we may have a better picture of the situation itself. However, this generalisation by some Members is not correct. The whole chronology of this project needs to be examined and how it was led up to some point when the government and, above all, Parliament were actually involved. And since then, the Termoelectric power plant is Šostanj, block 6 problem and discussions in the National Assembly are taking place. However, some cut-off dates were still very important and should also be looked at, determined, and I think that we have so far checked all relevant facts very correctly on the Commission. Which is why I don't think there's any generalization of certain responsibilities on the average. I believe that in the final report we will make a number of matters more enlightened and even more relevant to responsibility. I only believe the report will be accepted. As I said, we do not oppose him, so I believe that there will be much further debate on the Commission itself, but, as we say, unfortunately there is no great deal of commitment by certain coalition Members in order to find out and explore some things. Last but not least, if you look at the SMC, in your coalition contract you even had written down to set up an independent international commission to investigate this matter, none of which. And it's been three years. Thank you in a way to the Left Group, which has even led the story to the fact that we have an investigative commission and that work is in some way also normally done and we come up with interesting facts, which will also be presented in the final report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u133	Mrs Marush Škopac has the floor and then the representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u134	My colleague Tonin did not agree in his debate that the political responsibility of all ministers mentioned by name is the same. In a report I do not know exactly how Tonin read it, but in his introductory address, the President of the Commission, and I also explicitly said that the political responsibility of the said persons was not exactly the same, since the three ministers, Mr Vizjak, Mr Križanič and Mr Lahovnik, said, supported the exclusion of 12 companies from the energy field, that they were not on the public procurement list. Minister Vizjak as Finance Minister is, in fact, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] At the time, he was a minister of finance. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, Mr. Bayuk. Mr Bajuk, as Finance Minister, correctly listed all these 12 energy companies on the list of those undertakings which are bound by the Public Procurement Act, and then apparently Minister Vizjak was stronger in the government and was not eventually added to the list. I want to say that the Commission has actually distinguished in this sense political responsibility. Of course, the Public Procurement Act itself does not ensure that tenders or investments or projects are always carried out effectively so that they are not mismanaged. It is always important who is leading the project, how professional and how honest these people are. I agree with my colleague Krivec, who said that these companies were not on the list in order to actually have to work under the Public Procurement Act, that this is not the only reason that the TES 6 project went as it did, but it would have been completely different on several points. In my own view, I described the case of the construction of a cooling tower, where the unelected bidder had no opportunity to look into competition offers and had no possibility of appeal, and for this reason there could actually be overpayment only on the project of building a cooling tower for an estimated EUR 10 million. At this point in time, we do not pay the wrong investment in the sixth block from the budget line in order to cash the guarantee. However, I cannot agree that we are not paying the wrong investment itself from the budget. Why? When a country establishes its own enterprises, state-owned enterprises, it establishes them, inter alia, to create jobs and to generate profits with which the state budget should be charged in order to be able to go back to other investments, to education, to social or to anything else. Firms that do not provide this and businesses that are actually doing so badly that they cannot provide additional investments, that is why they are investing in the Drava power plant and that various investments in energy are being built from the budget, in fact, in my personal opinion, that means that we are paying a bad investment from the budget. Maybe not from the cash guarantee item, but we pay it from other items, where there is no means that we can put them in infrastructure, in roads, in hospital rehabilitation, maybe in schools, and so on. As to what this bad investment has actually brought, I think we feel it at a much higher price of electricity than we could be on the market today. When we talk about the fact that, in fact, everything is not always in human beings, it is necessary to say that, here in this place and in this investment, it is obvious that in the right places, both in politics and in that economic sector that led the investment, people have come together who have had a great tendency from the beginning to play the system, from this investment, and from this project to draw a lot of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u135	We are moving to the conclusion of the debate in which the representative of the proposaler Matjaž Hanžek gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u136	Thank you very much, President. I am happy, on the one hand, and not on the other hand, little has been said about the procurement itself, which on the one hand means that the report is correctly written. On the other hand, I am very fond of "the devil's lawyers" who remind me of the mistakes that will then be further improved in the end, but because these public procurements will be part of the final report. Here in the introduction I would like to correct those you said “Hanžek has prepared”. Hanžek was chairman of the Commission, perhaps I have prepared the most, I agree with my colleague Krivec that he was extremely constructive or he worked hard, and I will not rank all the other members now. We have all worked hard, and I must say in particular that I am extremely pleased with the work of the Commission, especially after we have sat down and discussed the text. I must say, I was surprised that in the National Assembly we can have such a proper, so non-political but professional debate, as we conducted it in this committee, irrespective of the membership of political groups in Parliament or ideological and so on. We spoke exclusively professionally, each proposal was truly professionally supported. Any opposition also had arguments and so on. I've said this a number of times, if we were to work everywhere in the National Assembly like we did on our committee, it would be a pleasure to work. Since we were talking a little bit directly about public procurement, there is nothing in particular about me having to answer, explain and so on. There's a lot to talk about. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to clarify or try to clarify at least a few things that relate directly to the investigative commission or the results of the investigative commission or the wider work of our project. There was much talk, and many talked about the issue of a different direction of energy Slovenia, including with complete opposition to the TES. I think I will now say the opinion of everyone, we never said in the committee that we oppose the use of lignite to the end, we never said that we were opposed to investing in a new bloc, even though the sixth block of thermoelectric power plant Šostjanj, but everyone was absolutely opposed to making such an investment, for such a price, an investment for a billion and a half, if I rounded it, I think I've even circled down, sooner or later it's going to happen. For a billion and a half, from this day forward, it was different. Director Rotnik talks in 2003 about the 600-megawat block, two years later they apply to the Ministry for an energy permit of 500 million and receive it. They barely get it, two or three months later they ask the minister to give it to a 600-megawat electric block. Change from today to tomorrow. Of course, Minister, here I have to support Minister Viszak on the other hand, he had to get his opinion back from Eles, of all people, so that they could change the energy permit. So he had the question of why they're stalling with energy, so he had the pressure from and so on, I'm not going to explain it in concrete terms now, because we're going to see it in the final report. So it was very difficult to work together, constantly under pressure from some who must have known what they wanted, but they kept showing something else. It's a total mess. There was talk of victory. A 500-megawatt block for which TES was granted an energy permit in 2005 and was written to use only giant lignite. The 600-megawatt block, however, has already introduced 10% of the imported black coal, which appears to have been pressured here by another lobby that would like to import coal. And they didn't just build it to use giant lignite. We on the committee are convinced that, for example, 400, I don't know, we're not experts, but certainly a smaller unit would be more suitable to consume all the coal that can be obtained at an economically appropriate price. Lignite is much more, but it'll be hard to get to it. It can also be seen that at the end of half its operation, the power plant will work with a little more than half its power because there will be no coal. I'm afraid they'll close sooner. In addition, there is a question that will have to arise, which is not directly related to the identification of political responsibility, but it is a matter of expertise, some experts who have spoken differently every day, as we have heard several times. For example, in the professional world that decided on the size of energy, they said 600 megawatts because it was the only serial product. But we do know that 600 megawatts is a boutique product. A boutique product so that no one could compare it through an investment. If we had, say, 475 megawatts, like Patnow 2 in Poland at the same time, or a little bit earlier, built it for 520 million to be worse lignite than a giant, it would cost 620 million, maybe 700. But they wanted 600 megawatts, which no one could control because he was the only one in the world. They were bragging about it, but the problem is, you don't know when he's going to die, because the new technology is perfect, but you never know how safe it is, and so on. Let's just let it go. That's other stuff. Above all, it was, in particular, impossible to argue that it was so expensive, because if we had one from a series of 20, 30 other countries, we could say why it cost 700 million in Bosnia, Poland, Germany and a billion 400 in us. But that was never a comparison, but you could only believe it. There's a whole bunch of things going to be the final report, and I believe there's going to be a lot of things left that we haven't seen and what we can't even say, and above all it's going to be left for the law enforcement authorities. They once said that block 5 would continue to work, now we know that block 5 was almost shut down, working block 4, which should normally be closed, because the bank could demand a refund because it was a condition that block 4 works only minimally. But that'll be next time. I'd be here to finish, to answer something else that people ask me very often. Some who are more cynical say it's worth it, because it's not going to work. Others, however, who want to know something, ask what consequences, positive ones, will have our commission of inquiry. To those who are cynical and say that nothing will come of it, I answer that it is my job to do my job. If others don't do their job, it's no argument to me that I won't do my job for it. Secondly, because the commission deals only with political responsibility, we also run into criminal and everything else, but it's a matter of law enforcement that they do. I would like to see these old people move even more forward so that our conclusions today, which I believe will have a positive, positive impact on the police, the prosecution, the court, so that this second part of criminal responsibility can develop more quickly. But our work, the exploration of political responsibility, is that voters may think a little bit about the next and the next elections. It is even more important for me personally that future project developers who would like to carry out projects in a similar way will think a little bit more about it, because they will be afraid to be on some next commission, especially that people who knew what was going on will not be able to tell themselves – because we know how it is, especially in smaller environments, that you become a technological surplus – or they do not trust that anything is worth saying at all. I can see this myself, now I feel that this information is coming more and more from people who have been silent ten years ago, now say something, and that this last part in particular will be that people will be more confident that the country, including or in the first place with the National Assembly, can speak out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u137	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If he also wishes to discuss the proposaler's representative, Matjaž Hanžek, please also apply. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u138	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, including the President and all members of the Commission! I think they are doing an excellent, difficult work of the investigative commission, which is also part of parliamentary practice in our country, very often. However, I regret that Parliament has to deal with such matters as the case of TES. I have also supported the establishment of this Commission, because I think it is right to avoid such and similar practices and I think that all of them are obvious that at least the Party of the Modern Centre did not approach the work of this Commission constructively or in any way, there are, in particular, criticisms that are not actually based. I also think that this project TES is one example of poor governance, project management in some investment, and it has had some effects on the ongoing management of the projects now run by this government and the Ministry of the Government. In this context, I would like to touch on the second indent of the case, because I think that all caution in the implementation of this project with regard to the adoption of legislation in this area has been in the context of not repeating the bad practice of the past. When we argued about this second track law whether it was necessary or not, I believe that the answer to this question is that we want to prevent this from happening in the Modern Centre Party by project management of investments and by an approach that will not allow such practices from the past. Of course, I would also like to point out, which in my own way is surprising, that I understand Parliament as a legislative branch of power to deal with political responsibility. I also hope that those names that we have heard today will also be recognized by the voters as being those stakeholders, who have acted in the past with bad practices in one way or another, that they will not be supported in future elections. I am also concerned about how the public will be informed of the findings of this Commission and how this will affect the media. So I am afraid that certain circles, which are political stakeholders or are responsible in this project, have certain impacts, so it is right that we are talking about this, and that the Commission will also make this clear in the final report. What is particularly surprising to me is that investigative procedures that are not within our jurisdiction are taking place too slowly when I hear that some of the bad practices that some have carried out are becoming procedures for very long investigations and that these potential suspects, who cannot be proved guilty, are still walking peacefully. After all, Alstom is also involved as an international group that has already been proven by bribery in the international field. I think that more investigation and judicial procedures should be carried out here. In this light, too, I see the efforts of the Modern Centre Party, the Ministry of Justice, to introduce legislation that would give more power, facilitate the investigation procedures, and also the final suspects, where they belong, not to play basketball or walk peacefully. I support this Commission's report, I think it is right that it completes it as soon as possible and that the concrete names of the politically responsible are identified. I also expect the judicial authorities to act more quickly to identify possible infringements of the law and also to punish those involved in these proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u139	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, let me first express my respect and recognition to the President of the Commission of Inquiry and to all members and members for the work done so far. I will, of course, support this report. I am also grateful to all those, last of all, that was colleague Marush Škopac, who objectively highlighted here the role of former Finance Minister Dr Andrej Bajuk. Some of you have also made a very specific statement about chronology and mentioned that meeting of the government when it was over-voted. But, yes, the government is a collective body. Now, I don't want to apologize to anyone here, but I'm happy that you've given these reasons quite honestly. He was just too loud. I worked with him for four years, and I can tell you that I knew him as a man who has embodyed honesty. We also need to know in the timeline that Dr. Bayuk said good-bye to the Ministry of Finance at the end of his term of office in 2008. The contract was signed the following year, 2009, and, of course, money ran out normally. At the time, the Minister of Finance was someone else, Dr. France Križanič. I believe that members and members also know that, yes, even in politics, but this is not an excuse for politicians, abnormal pressure has been exerted by different lobbyists. It's always like this when it comes to money. That is why we are always afraid of some big public public investment today, because we were not doing well here at TES 6 and we were not doing well. Look, there is no secret, the former long-standing mayor of Velenje, was also a Member, he told the European Member and Prime Minister Loizet Peterlet, who was a sharp opponent of this investment and said that TES 6 is not a way into a carbon-free society, correctly said, but rightly, it is fair in his eyes, saying to him: “You know, Mr Peterle, we, the jester lobby, we are very strong, we are very strong.” The Commission probably cannot deal with this. The Commission is looking for political responsibility and it is right and so is it. I just want, Mr President, the members and members to actually manage your work as conscientiously as possible until the end of the final report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u141	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Let me begin by saying that I will confirm this interim report myself. I would also like to thank the President of the Commission, Mr Hanzk, for his good leadership, and also all members for their proper cooperation. From what I've heard today, you've all done very well, so this report can be as good as it is. I can tell myself that from the beginning I believed that the work of your commission would be successful. If a project such as TES 6 really needs political support for its implementation, it would not be possible to establish political responsibility but would have a major problem. So for me, such a good midterm report is hardly a surprise. I am interested in these names that have been found in this mid-term report, where these people are now and how the Slovenians are being treated, how we reward them. For example, Mr Lahovnik is currently a great moral authority for himself in various columns, on Twitter, spitting at everything that this government does and it was very interesting to see in this report. Then Mr Pahor, voters, citizens and citizens rewarded him in public opinion polls, and he was elected president for the second time. Obviously, that's what our people want you to spend in such a non-transparent way a billion euros if you reduce unemployment, if you bring in foreign investment, if you turn three, if you cut a percentage of debt in GDP, and people don't like it in us, and then they spit you out. This is one of the interesting things that a person thinks about on this report. There are also three members of the SDS on this list, so I had an interesting discussion by SDS Member Ljub Žnidar, who pointed to the coalition, czech, you are leading this investigation – one day the president is still an unrelated Member, not with us, so that the coalition does not lead this investigative commission, but is afraid that we will prevent the coalition, SMC, from obstructing the functioning of this commission. Now Mr Žnidar is not here to say that we will not interfere with the functioning of this commission, we have no reason. I hope that you will not, too, because you have three good reasons to do so, but I would like you to be, as your member has heard today, that he has worked properly on this committee so far, that he will also continue to cooperate properly and look forward to the final report and I look forward to the reactions of the Slovenians and Slovenes to these final conclusions. How we will reward or punish those who are politically responsible, each one in his own work, each in his own degree, today we have heard that not everyone is the same. That'll be one interesting thing for me when we get the final report on the table. For this in the meantime, once again, I must say thank you for the excellent work done so far and we are waiting for the final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u143	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I said I'd take another call from the current debate. I have heard some remarks from Members to generalise in these debates on matters relating to the Šostanj Termoelectrica. It makes no sense to seek the guilt of today's Members, unless someone is identified in connection with this matter. The interim report is a fairly clear, eloquent witness to the names that were at the political level responsible for setting up this project, eloquently testifying to the evidence that is somehow the basis for all political statements to these people. I think there's too much debate here. I have heard that certain energy companies have been exempted from public procurement, since many companies have been exempted, since if anything were intentional, only TES 6 would be. Of course it doesn't work that way. I believe that a lot of these companies have been chosen even to have a company, perhaps one, or maybe even three or more, to be selected for the various scoundrels that have happened to them today. To talk about 12 companies being exempted, and to conclude that TES 6 was not on the start of the lumpari, it is somehow inappropriate. Finally, some drug dealers usually carry the drugs between trees and the like. I have a feeling that TES 6 was such a similar story, where in the circle of some 12 companies wanted to hide a lush investment that ended where it was. As regards the work of the Commission itself, political and criminal responsibility, I would stress once again that political responsibility is important for this part of the Assembly. We have certain names here, there's a situation on the ground, let's say, a little worrisome. The polls were mentioned. Let us recall Mr Borut Pahor's hearing, which mentioned that various threats were also made during this project, or he described this as a legitimate threat, that if this project did not go forward, neither would the President of the country nor the President of the party. He's obviously decided he'd rather be the party president and the government president. So what I'm trying to say is that there's a lot, a lot of swindling. I don't think I've ever heard of him as much as I've heard from witnesses in the work of this commission of inquiry. I would like to make one special broadcast about this, perhaps one segment of all these hearings, where people can see who has led the most responsible functions in the country in certain stages. I hope that we will all survive together, all citizens of self-reflection, so that we will respond accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u145	This concludes the debate. The assembly will decide on the essential findings within half an hour in the framework of the vote. I interrupt the 27th item of the agenda and also the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 6 p.m. and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u146	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will first vote on the 27th item and then on the 10th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interim Public Procurement Report on the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica, which are recorded in the interim report on pages 153 to 161. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour and none in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[And no one's against it.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. I hereby conclude the 27th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 12. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group will become irrelevant under number 2 and the amendment of the group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Urška Ban to the same article under number 3. Oh, I'm sorry! I didn't see it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u147	We will, of course, support this amendment because we have tabled a similar amendment ourselves, because we want to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, which decided that the compulsory compulsory primary school programme in private school must be co-financed by 100 per cent by the State. This is not about financing private schools, but about financing a public policy programme implemented in a private school. This is not about the standard that parents have to pay as well as tuition, it is about the right to choose parents who have chosen a school in which a public primary school programme is carried out, as this school also has a certain educational approach. So they chose to stop this possibility of choosing a school. If this amendment and our amendment are not adopted and another amendment or law not allowing this 100 per cent funding of the programme is adopted, in our opinion and also in the opinion of the Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service, the law will in itself be unconstitutional. Probably none of us want to be accused again of what unconstitutional laws we are adopting, but I also believe that none of us wants to pay so much more tuition due to our bad decisions, unconstitutional decisions. That is why in New Slovenia we will support this amendment and then our amendment if it is not voted. Of course, they're identical.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u148	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 11 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Urško Ban to the same Article under number 3 will become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u149	Of course, I will be alone and my Group of Members will vote in favour of this amendment, because this amendment only implements the Constitutional Court's decision. I hope that when we vote today, we are aware that this amendment alone is implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. If this amendment is rejected today, it means that the law will continue to be unconstitutional. Since we need to be very specific about these things, we are today discussing the financing of school programmes, the primary school programmes prescribed by the State, and this amendment proposed by Nova Slovenija says that the compulsory programme prescribed by the State should be financed. These are teaching subjects — mathematics, Slovenian, biology, and so on. This amendment states that it is necessary to finance the extended programme provided for by the State, namely morning protection, afternoon protection, supplementary education, teaching aid. This amendment does not, however, say that an extended programme for partisan interests needs to be financed, read: philosophical or religious education. This amendment does not finance this. Do we understand each other? This amendment, which we have proposed, does not finance religious education, does not finance a believer. In New Slovenia, we also oppose the financing of these things from public funds. I hope I've made myself clear. This amendment, which we have proposed, is financed only by what the State has prescribed to be part of the primary school programme. The Constitutional Court said that the same work was followed by the same payment. If you have anything to do with the Constitution, justice and equality, then it is clear that this amendment must be supported. But I think it's because you're all debating in your own way that you're obviously in advance convinced that we can talk here in an empty way that nobody cares about the arguments and facts. That is why this debate went so far in the National Assembly, because today we listened to a number of debaters, from whom it was clear that they did not know matter, but they speak so because they said so either politically or ideologically. I think that the explanation for the vote is the last chance to hear at least a fraction of the truth and to vote like that and that we also vote by finally implementing the Constitutional Court's decision after three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u150	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It is perfectly normal for me to support this amendment of New Slovenia, as I previously supported the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I put freedom, freedom of choice, freedom of choice for our Slovenian parents at the forefront. Because I am putting forward the European Convention on Human Rights, ratified by the National Assembly in 1994, which states, among other things: "No one shall be deprived of the right to education. In carrying out tasks relating to education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to provide such education and education to their children, in accordance with their religious and philosophical beliefs." I will vote in favour of these amendments especially because private schools, these 6 private schools of all 772, have been initiated by parents. And that's why I'm putting my parents at the forefront. I will vote in favour of our amendment because, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, the Government agrees with the initiative of the applicants and considers that the provision is contrary to the Constitution. The government says that in fact our system does not allow private education if the solution remains the same as it is today. I support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u152	A self-explanation of the vote, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u153	Of course I'll support our amendment. Six private schools cannot endanger public education because these private schools are also public schools because they implement a public school programme. We're talking about about about 308,000 euros a year. Funny how long we've been talking about this. This clearly shows that it is not about money, but it is an ideological approach. In New Slovenia we regret that this is happening to us. Although we are accustomed to often making various proposals, laws, amendments, which would be smart and where they should be accepted, are rejected. But it's okay, we're used to it. But it's okay, we're used to it. But this is not about New Slovenia, it is easy for the children and parents of these children who have enrolled children in these schools and will have to pay so much more fees for the compulsory school program prescribed by the State. If we say that Slovenia is a legal and social state, this is how we will allow the children of wealthier families to enter these schools and not like now, where these schools are accessible to others. Data on how many children receive subsidised school meals and others show this clearly. That is why once again my call, my request, we think of these children, parents, our citizens, and realize that these schools are added value to Slovenia, not something that ruins public education.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u154	Is there any other explanation? A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say for myself that I agree with Mrs Novak that this is an ideological topic. Even clearer was Mr Joseph Horvath on the day that he said on television, we are not talking about the 200,000, he made a mistake, 300,000, but then he said this number, it is the end of socialism. And this is the story we're talking about today. I know that it is the end of socialism, but I stand up for public school, for the development of public school, because this is our problem, because it is not exactly what we want, but I stand up for, because private schools lead to the pauperisation of the school, leading to the grading of the public school for the benefit of a private school. United States of America, United Kingdom. Since the topic is political, the Constitutional Court has also ruled twice. Dr. Teršek was clear. Two days ago, I watched one of his statements at night, and he said that this composition of the Constitutional Court was bureaucratic. The compositions of the Constitutional Court are also different. And the question of democracy: is 9 lawyers more democracy than 90 Members? Are three constitutional lawyers worth more than 90 Members? It's a simple question. You can't compare the Constitutional Court's decision to what some of you have done today with the judgment of the Court. That's incomparable. The Constitutional Court is a negative legislator, returns it to the National Assembly, and then the National Assembly examines what to do and what not to do. I've been a constitutional clause since the beginning. I will, of course, vote on my conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u156	I think it's best if we make an application to calm down. Please apply for those of you who wish to explain your voice in your own name. A self-explanation of the voice, Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u157	Mr. Hainz, I'd like to say that we should seem to have one schnolkurs do what's public, what's national and what's private. You're not in favor of public education, you're in favor of state education. Public education is also a private education if it carries out a public programme. However, the difference between public and private schools is that state schools are being built or on behalf of the state of the municipality, for which the state has no money since 2011, and private schools are building private capital for public school. That's the difference. Until you win this, it's not an ideological theme. When I look at my congregation, we built a new school and kindergarten a few years ago, but today it is too small. We have an old school, we have some facilities where there could be a school. The mayor would also like the citizens to invest privately in this school for the public programme, because he does not have to give money to the congregation because he does not have it. Do you understand? That's the problem. But no. Because better results in private schools, where good teachers go, best teachers, then threaten the state school because they are better success. Well, that's proven. Are you afraid that your children and grandchildren would have better knowledge or worse? Apparently, you're fighting for the worse, for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u158	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u159	I will vote in favour of this amendment, which speaks only of the state paying for what it has prescribed. Is that so hard to understand? The vice president discussed some other schools, and here we even agree. He talked about private schools, and I agree that public money cannot go to private schools, which can only have the kind of program they want, schools they want. Vice President, at this point, I agree with you that public money cannot go to such schools. You have schools like this in America and elsewhere. But let us be so honest with each other and say that we are talking about private schools today, teaching a public program. So it's a program that's been prescribed by the state. Anyone who is for equality, freedom, must support this thing. Same pay for the same job. That's the whole point. We're talking about these kind of private schools today. Unfortunately, though, throughout the whole debate, it has tried to show itself as if we are supporting money to go to private schools, to those who have their own agenda and their own curriculum. Well, that doesn't hold. So, Mr Hainz, I don't think you've discussed the real school here and that this amendment needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u160	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u161	We mix pears and apples. Really. After all the discussion in the public and in the National Assembly, it is only now that the vote on our amendment shows that some Members do not really know the content or the matter we have been talking about for several months. Really. What's this all about? For these six schools too, the state has said that it is a public education, as there is a public programme. Let us separate what is private education and what is part of public education. If the founder is a private person and a public programme is implemented, the Constitutional Court has said that it is part of a public school. Mr. Hainz, you've been talking about something that's completely different. To run a private program, you think. But now we don't vote on it. It's not about that, Mr. Hainz, and we can't mix it up. The Constitutional Court has also ruled on two completely different matters, and you seem to have mixed up here. I just want to emphasise something, and I will support this amendment – see if we have anything to do with the rule of law, to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, to respect these courts, then we will all support this amendment of New Slovenia. But if we do not respect the rule of law and respect the decisions of the courts, then knock on your own, vote as you wish, but then you must also bear the consequences in the long term. The next time a question arises about who respects and who does not respect the decision of the courts, you are also the ones who do not respect the decisions of the courts. But this is the way the country has no future unless we stick to the rules. It's the same as going because we lost the football game, changing the rules of the football game. This is not normal for a rule of law and a democratic state. Let's support this amendment because it's useful.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u162	I will only once again open the possibility to explain the vote on my own behalf and then we will vote. Please sign up. Explanation of the voice in its own name, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u163	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I will vote against this amendment for three simple reasons. The first is that it is public and private. It is completely out of logic that the state should fund private schools 100%. Sorry, this isn't a private school anymore. [[advertising from the hall]] May I? Second, I'll vote [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u164	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u165	The President, please, if you can calm them down. Secondly, I will vote against because public education is free of charge and accessible to all [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] the basis of the provision [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u166	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u167	Can I say to the end? If I'm running out of time, please count me in. I will vote against this because public, free and accessible education is the basis for ensuring social equality and equality. But the last time I heard on the committee of the representative of the private school, he said we had to introduce what you were proposing. Why? To enable groups of entourages to establish their primary schools. If I don't want to see anything in this country, it's like a bunch of losers are going to be creating their own private schools. And the third time we're talking about results, I remember that in one of the most famous private schools in Slovenia, more than 50% of the graduates have dropped out of high school not long ago. So much for these schools set up by entourages and so much for the better pedagogical approaches these schools are supposed to have. I don't want us to play here with the future of the children in this country and I want everyone to have a quality free public education, which is verified, and that is why I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u168	Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, private school has its own private TRR. And if public funds are found on this TRR, it means that we are effectively taking money from our public schools to satisfy some of the interests of the private school. This is what the debate is about, no matter how much a political group wants to distort it. Z That is why I voted against the previous amendment, I will vote against this amendment and I will vote against the next amendment, because this whole set of amendments foresees the placement of public, our common money in small private schools. That's, again, wrong. These private schools are pursuing some of their participative worldview studies, but they are not looking at any standard that would apply at the level of society as a whole. It is precisely what we have in common that we must also make use of the common funds, which are budgetary resources. Keep it public, keep it private. But when we come to the issue of education, I think we'll have to take another step forward in the future. Not only did one theorist speak of school as an ideological apparatus. What happens if one another, several different communities of this ideological apparatus fail?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u170	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u171	I have already told you today what you want to do with this opposition and by sharing children who attend public programs and public schools to do – discipline the parents of these children, punch them in wallets and discipline teachers. That's your purpose. Because if you were an equal country, then you would understand that the parents of these children, which you want to expel and disable from their education, pay taxes in this country. We all pay taxes, including those kids' parents. The easiest thing to do is bring up some high school talk. What kind of prom does elementary school have? He's got an NPZ, that's for sure. And as a mother, I am very interested in what NPZs in the first triad, or in the second triads or third triads are achieved by students in such and different schools. But this information is not so public, because this data can also create competition within public schools. But we have different schools, public schools, and I can mention our schools – Rakek, Cerknica, Old Market and so on, which I know more about, and I also know about how NPZs are. There is also competition within them. But it's in public schools. You say that six elementary schools in Slovenia will threaten public education. We must work here to ensure that our children get the best they can, but of course in accordance with the Convention, that everyone has the right to such education, which is in accordance with his philosophical and religious beliefs. It's kind of a European standard. And I'm pretty sure here, because there's a few younger people than me, but you've seen things, you know how they live and how these things work abroad. Last but not least, many of you are professors. I hope none of you professors here teach at any private school. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u172	I said we'd do it one time and now we're going to vote. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Then we'll probably be here a little longer. Yeah, no problem. So you want to continue to explain your voice or debate your voice through the debate? I'm opening the door for you to sign up. Explanation of Dr. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to get involved in this. However, if I am to be a member of the next term, I will definitely be on the Education Committee, because I was also born in school, a public school which is now a firehouse. I was stabbed because a colleague told me in front of me that we had to allow and decide something for a five-year-old or a six-year-old child according to his philosophical and religious beliefs with school. You know, kids have to be protected from the country and from their parents. Children have the right to have a child, and when they become full - grown, they should make a philosophical and religious decision. That's why I'm going against these nebulas. Of course, it's an ideological subject. When Kordish said ideologically, someone answered there, yes, because we saw it, it's also an ideological matter. Like you said in Maribor, let's stop suffocating. Our ideology is like this, yours is like this, the transfiguration of the veins is like this, and we have to protect the children from parents and the country. Children have the right to have a child. And of all religions, I most value Bahai because it is only when they are full - grown that they decide whether they will be religious or not. Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u174	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members and Members by first-signed Mrs Urško Ban to Article 11(3). We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 30. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u175	I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mrs Jelka Godec, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u176	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment that you have not voted in the National Assembly following a decision of the Constitutional Court to finance a public programme for compulsory primary schools, no matter where this programme is implemented, 100 %. That is how the Constitutional Court ruled. The bill before us today, however, refers to the financing of 100% of the public education programme for primary schools, the compulsory part of 100%, and the extended part of the programme, no percentage. The Legislative and Legal Service has stated on the Committee that, in the event of such enforcement, this means that this Article is contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution, which speaks of Slovenia as a legal and social state and that the rights already acquired are thus forfeited. As of today, 85% of compulsory primary schools have been funded by the public programme of compulsory primary schools under the law. This law therefore takes the rights already acquired and is likely to be found again in the Constitutional Court and in the judgment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose such a law or this dictatorship, so we will vote against the adoption of this law and we also call on everyone to reconsider what basic schools are doing with such legislation, those implementing the public programme. It should be said that this distortion, which was by the coalition, in order for private schools to be financed 100 % if they followed the Constitutional Court's decision, is of course not true, because private schools that do not carry out the public programme would not be financed, only those who implement the public programme would be financed and children would eventually obtain a public certificate. So once again, our amendment proposal, following the Constitutional Court's decision, has not been adopted. This provision in the law, that only part of the public education programme is financed, is opposed, so that we also oppose the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Matthew Tonin on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u178	So far, the regulation of this area has been followed by the fact that, in a building built by a private person, the State has taught the programme prescribed by the State, the State has given 85% for teachers' salaries for teaching Slovenian, mathematics and so on and has given 85% for morning, afternoon protection and teaching aid. Today, we have come now after all these amendments votes to the point where there is a law on the table that would otherwise have provided 100 % of the items for that first part, and nothing for morning, afternoon and supplementary education. I hope you are here, but it is clear to everyone that this is an unconstitutional law because it is an act of interference with the rights already acquired. It's an intervention into the rights already acquired. And here's the end of ideology. Even those who don't like us very much, who don't like to hear or hear anything different from you, but I hope there's so much honesty in you and you're aware of what it means to interfere with the rights already acquired. This is no longer a joke. And if you adopt this law today, it is clear that it will fall at the Constitutional Court. I hope you'll stop this embarrassment today with your voice against it. The sad consequence is that after three years of effort and effort, we will be at the beginning — where we were three years ago. But it still feels better to be at the beginning than knowingly to vote for an unconstitutional law. This law cannot be supported today. Whoever supports this law today is truly ideological.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support this law in the Group of the Social Democrats. In fact, it is the content that will affect the rights already acquired and will certainly open the way for a new constitutional opinion and, as a rule, the Constitutional Court also decides that such content is contrary to the Constitution. The other reasons that we have presented through today's debate also guide us against this law, because from the very beginning we have insisted on amending Article 57 of the Constitution in order to clear up this content, which otherwise speaks of primary education being compulsory and financed from public funds. Nowhere in this Article 57 has it been stated that private school funding can also be regulated by law. However, this exception has arisen and we are aware of it. That is why we have also introduced a law within the procedure for the adoption of this law to delete the article that is trying to regulate it. leave the matter at the level of the rights acquired and clear Article 57 in the way that the law regulates the financing of private schools, but especially because such a law has already been passed. We are aware that the public network of primary schools is fully built in Slovenia and therefore we are not allowed to allocate resources for a parallel network organised within private schools. Such spending of public funds is in fact unacceptable. However, since some private schools have already been granted rights in this case, we respect this. However, we also want to continue to maintain public education, so that this network does not fall apart. Article 87 of the Law on the Financing of Education and Education makes it very clear that if there is a possible abolition of public school in the school environment due to the functioning of a private school, then, at the time of the decision or act issued by the Minister, that such a private school is not financed, it is also legal, of course, to apply. The point is, we respect the laws, we respect the constitution. This law cannot be legally supported because it is a derogation, and one of the main reasons is that, because of the local politicisation of the appointment of primary school principals, this law has moved to the state level, which is bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? In his name, Dr. Milan Brglez has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I won't support the law. There are basically three reasons. I, too, believe that what has now emerged from the law is not constitutional, although the basis has been constitutional, contrary to our international commitments and, somehow, the fundamental sense of justice and fairness is fundamentally inconceivable. In the end, parents are at a disadvantage and, in fact, are children. But I have decided that I will not, even today, consciously wave with the ideological hammer because we are waving at our children. Here, for once, I agree with Dr. Duck that children should be protected from all of us. So, enough about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That is how I discussed it, and I said that this National Assembly needs at least 90 kilograms of ash to deal with the ashes, because we are actually brutal against parents and against children. This amended bill, which has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service Committee, is not in accordance with the Constitution, is not in accordance with human rights and is in fact taking over the rights already acquired. I regret, ladies and gentlemen, that this content, which we cannot agree on and simply do not want to understand, I do not know how to explain that it has reached the international level in practice. I'm really sorry. And Slovenia also lost international credibility and visibility in co-financing the public policy in private schools. I'm sorry. Not thanks, for example, to the Foreign Policy Committee, not at all. But you know, as I have already said on the Constitutional Commission, that the initiators of the Constitutional Opinion have informed about what is going on, including the ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union in Ljubljana. Our diplomatic network, unfortunately or fortunately, does not send all the magazines to Slovenia, but we cannot read them because they are such instructions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I will vote against this law, which is unconstitutional and in fact we are in some black week – an unconstitutional law yesterday, today, if adopted, an unconstitutional law. Ideological Theme — Yes or No? You know, we did win back in 1991, but I'm afraid we didn't get free.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u186	I am pleased that the SD will not support this law because there is a greater possibility that it will not be adopted. However, I am not pleased to see them thinking that we have very well-organized state schools, and we do not need private schools yet, because they are threatening this school. This reminds me of the times when we had a very good political party, and we did not need any other political party because it would endanger that political party that was good. If we're going back in those times, I'm really worried. I cannot support this law, but I agree with all those who have explained that you will not support this law because it already interferes with the rights acquired. Let us also listen for once to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Any other definition of voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present and 30 votes against 33. [[The vote was 30.]] [[And against 33.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude the 10th item of the agenda. I hereby adjourn the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday 19 December at 9 a.m.
