ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Alexander Kavčič, Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček, mag. Dušan Verbič, Matjaž Nemec until 12 noon and from 15.30 to 20:00, Violeta Tomić from 18:00, Dr. László Göncz from 14:00 onwards, Uroš Prikl to 2.30 p.m., mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 18:00 on, Marinka Levičar, Igor Zorčič until 13:00, Vesna Vervega until 15:00, Private Shergan until 21:00, Kamal Izidor Shaker from 16 till 20:00, mag. Branislav Rajić until 16:00, Andreja Potočnik until 14:00, Vlasta Počak from 16:00, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 16.30 to 20:00, Irena Grošelj Kosnik until 21:00, Marko Ferluga until 15:00, Marjan Dolinšek from 16:00 onwards, Dr. Milan Brglez from 16.30 to 6.30 p.m. Franc Trček, Roberto Battelli, Miha Kordišek from 19th to 21st hours, Iva Dimic from 17th hours onwards, Jožef Horvat from 15th hours, Jelka Godec from 10th to 12th hours, Nada Brinovšek from 10th to 12th hours and Ludmila Novak from 13th hours. I welcome everyone else here! We're moving to 41. At the hour of the day, it is for the Interpellation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. It's a mountain clemency. The Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of nineteen Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jožet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Branku Grims for further explanation of interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all a nice greeting! If Slovenia were a normal legal country with European standards, with a European standard of responsibility, then this meeting would certainly not be today. For there is only indescribable legal machination by eliminating and destroying evidence in the indictment of the suspicion of bribery, but in fact sexual abuse, regarding Ljubljana's mayor Zoran Jankovic, who has proved that the justice system as a whole is not working, as it should be, that we have citizens in the first and second order, where one can afford amazing things and nothing happens to them. It is not yet investigated whether or not the act has been committed and then not decided by the court. In every country like that, the minister would go alone. The Minister of Justice would either resign or be replaced by the President of the Government. But nothing happened in Slovenia. It's the fault, it's the prosecutor's fault, it's the justice that's guilty once, because in the meantime, it changed its mind, and it didn't count on it. That's very interesting how it all counts. Ladies and gentlemen, is this the justice system known by modern Europe? It's not. Who's legally responsible for this? Justice Minister. Only this would be enough in a normal country if the Minister had not done his job and had resigned himself or the President of the Government and proposed his replacement; today in Parliament, a large majority would probably have pressed the key for the discharge of the minister. In the Slovenian Democratic Party before this event, we proposed an interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič for the purpose of misleading the public with regard to his conduct with the Anti-Corruption Commission in relation to the investigation of billions of euros of Iranian money payments through the New Ljubljana Bank, d.d., Ljubljana, concerning the suspicion of money laundering, financing of proliferation, namely the purchase of weapons of mass destruction, nuclear programme and terrorism; and other actions and positions of the Minister in the performance of political functions resulting in lost confidence in the role of minister and judicial institution. Secondly, due to the failure to prepare legislation in the field of justice, which would allow for an integrated reform of justice and other urgent changes that would bring the Republic of Slovenia closer to the values, standards and standards of the European Union. We propose that after the discussion, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, should express its non-trust to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich. You will recall that Minister Goran Klemenčič, in the matter of the investigation of billions of euros in Iranian money payments through the New Ljubljana Bank, the suspicion of money laundering, the financing of the purchase of weapons of mass destruction and terrorism, and other actions that we have investigated in this context, has somehow stepped on the scene. Sam went to a press conference, at which he then stated in June this year: “I think that in 2011 we were informed by whistleblower of some secret document of the Bank of Slovenia, which we also transmitted in the form of a notice or a criminal complaint to the competent authorities.” Later, when we looked closely at things, we did a special report by the Commission on the supervision of the security and intelligence services, which the National Assembly confirmed unanimously, without a vote against, and it said: "The Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services was in a specific case, so the suspicion of money laundering surprised the KPC's behaviour. They received a secret whistleblower document from the Bank of Slovenia indicating the suspicion of a crime of money laundering. The KPK assessed that it was not competent and therefore handed over the document informally to the police, the NPU. Before that, they put together a document to protect the whistleblower. In addition, the allegations of a crime were not forwarded to the police under the provisions of the CAP, as stipulated by the concluded agreement between the KPK, the MNZ and the police of 1. 6. 2010; but the document was handed over to a staff member of the NPU to take him to the police, where he then lost every trace of him. The management of the KPK is contrary to the existing agreement between the KPK, the MNZ and the police of 1. 6. 2010 means a violation of the officially designated operation of the official institutions.” This was by a decision adopted by the National Assembly, which confirmed and supported the findings of the KNOVS, a virtually unanimous conclusion of the National Assembly. However, in his reply, the minister wrote that “the KPK has notified the police of the suspicion of money laundering and, on the other hand,” I continue, “receives that he has acted professionally and professionally superstandard.” I am really interested in how the conduct contrary to the agreement in force, the surrender in an informal manner, the breach of the formal operating arrangements of the official institutions, as the National Assembly has already unanimously stated in that case, professionally and suprastandardly. That's gonna be interesting to hear. Excusing ambiguity or obvious infringements that were later casts further suspicion on the integrity of statements; and then pointing to other things as well. At this point, let me warn you that we can expand as well. And believe me, there's a magician with the Lord. Goran Klemenčič many reasons for any further expansion of this interpolation if the minister does so himself. Instead of talking about the New Ljubljana Bank, he starts to explain about the NKBM; even though when he talks about the skeletons in the closet, he could talk about the family and it would probably be clear who was there and how the lawyer ever acted and so on. We wouldn't be wasting our time now. With regard to the Minister's conduct, the law is clear, as well as a legal norm, which refers to the fact that the Minister is expected to act in such a way as to enhance the reputation of the judiciary and the judicial institutions. Since the Government has even proposed him as Commissioner for the Protection of Human Rights for the Council of Europe, his conduct and attitude are particularly important when it comes to the protection of human rights. From this point of view, I would like again to draw attention to his response, which in its own way is even more eloquent than the interpretation itself. For we have pointed out in the interpretation that when it came to a systematic violation of human rights, which was found in the Patria case by the Constitutional Court and which charged Mr Masleša directly, especially because of his previous statement, the Minister did not act, did nothing. And the law applies the principle of silence. It is said that the Minister agrees with the violation of human rights if violations remain without sanctions. In his reply, the Minister went much further, since he wrote that he did not act, quote, “but quite the contrary, he actively resisted clearly motivated political pressure; and in his opinion”, he said, “the conditions for the personal responsibility of the Supreme Court were not given.” And then proceed with the expulsion from trial. Ladies and gentlemen, in that matter, if I may remind you, there is a credible document. This is a notary record of the two witnesses who confirmed that Mr Branko Maslesha said in that case that “the accused should be fucked” is a quote from that statement, “and before the entire proceedings were brought before the court.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is a precedent that is totally incompatible with all the standards applicable to the functioning of justice, which is incompatible with the Slovenian Constitution and which in itself constitutes a grave violation of the defendant's human rights in some proceedings. Did the minister act? No, it's not. He boasts that he did not act to resist such pressures. It is said that he has taken full responsibility for this. If ever, he wrote here on a paper under which he himself was signed that he was an extremely inappropriate person for the European Commissioner for the Protection of Human Rights. He signed it himself. And I don't understand how the government could have suggested such a man. In clearing up legal matters that took place during this period, Mr Goran Klemenčič did not perform his role or did so in a manner that is mildly controversial. When it comes to a question that is being reopened by itself in these days, it is a matter of clearing up the story of the bank hole or, if you want, crime associated with bad business in Slovenian banks. There in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed a special investigator, who has also done her work properly. However, in order for this investigator to be able to carry out her task in all the banks covered by her work area, she needed appropriate documentation. She demanded it, but she didn't get it. And when it came to the question of how and what the investigating committee of the National Assembly has the right to access, the Minister, or on his behalf, then the Secretary of State, expressed the view that they do not have the right to do so. Later, it turned out to be legally different and therefore the Commission was also able to do its work properly. However, how can the Minister of Justice say that we should not come to anything in Parliament, because something, as they said at the time, should have been rudely written down. In such a case, we can only find that the Minister did not do his work properly; that he did not allow things to be clarified; and therefore no one should be surprised if, when the findings concerning the New Ljubljana Bank were made, he simply tried to attach the pot politically. He saw that he had acted contrary to the protocol in force, but he abandoned his duty. Now I'm asking you, do you know what corruption by law is? If someone abandons an act of duty, that is the very definition of corruption under the integrity law, that is the definition. It is said that the minister, who has always been so persecuted by corruption in words, committed corruption himself in this case. It's a pretty awkward thing. And that in itself should be sufficient for the Minister to accept responsibility; with everything we have already mentioned. On the contrary, the minister argues that all of this was appropriate, even claiming that this was superstandard. If someone is given an informal document that then disappears, is that really superstandard in this society?Oh, my God! Unless, of course, it's about protecting certain individuals. That we have in this society, it is now perfectly clear, individuals of the first and second order. In the case of individuals, everything is lost or subsequently eliminated because a procedure is initiated, and they will never be harmed because the judiciary cannot determine their guilt. Then, for individuals of the second order, it is known how to proceed, and for a good 150 euros, a house is taken up and sold at auction; for some, it is said, 200 euro bribes are sentenced to 3 years in prison. But if you're an individual in the first order, and when evidence is destroyed, by the way, you're free of about 16 million debts in your family. We all know how this works. This is, of course, not a legal state, it is a parody of the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. Again, he is responsible under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act, which is the Minister of Justice, Mr Goran Klemenčič. He committed himself to making those important moves that would bring Slovenia closer to the values and standards of the European Union, the value and the functioning of the justice system. We have a flood of laws in Parliament all the time, but they are beautiful in nature. In the very core of the problems, Mr Klemenčič, except in one case, never let go. This is as if – as we all know – the Justice who has blindfolded, the Minister painted new hair, painted beautiful nails for her; but he did not see to it that she could judge according to standards and in accordance with constitutional standards. For the constitutional standard requires not only that the judgment is within a reasonable time, but that the execution of the judgment is also carried out within a reasonable time. How's it going in Slovenia? They are now boasting if the judgment has been executed within a few years to bring the whole process to an end and to an execution within a few years. How's it going abroad? It's better if we don't talk. We are certainly not comparable on this side, but it is important to realize that this is also an important development issue, because if you are in a company, you have to sue under Slovenian justice. During this time, the company goes bankrupt, workers on the road. Then it is clear that such damage is irreparable; but not only for those who see it, but also for all those who see it. And, of course, this country is where investors and everyone else avoid it. The small steps that have been taken in this direction cannot fix things as a whole. You all know that. More should also be done for the responsibility of the judges in their trial. An amendment to the Constitution was announced, an extension of the duration of the mandate. None of this happened. I said, however, that in one case the Minister has also reached into the core of the developments in justice; but, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately in a completely wrong way. The Minister committed himself to align his work with the expertise and with all stakeholders who are important in some process. As is the case in practice, it has made clear the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was originally proposed literally in opposition to all, from the profession to the courts. Novele was not supported by anyone, nor by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, nor by the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, nor by the Bar Association, nor by prominent professors of criminal law. Where's that coordination now? And when this marriage came to an unworthy end, a new one was introduced in fourteen days. Then where is that coordination now, ladies and gentlemen? Coordination, we all know, requires a lot of time with the participants themselves in a process, with those directly concerned by the law governing their work; and, on the other hand, with the expertise and sectors within the government. If there is a new proposal on the table within fourteen days, then it is clear to everyone how this coordination took place or that it simply did not occur. The Minister's recruitment was politically motivated. This is clearly clear to everyone and obviously the only criterion, given everything that has been proposed. A number of human rights violations in the previous regime and violations of human rights in the previous regime are clearly at issue in terms of protection or human rights violations. But the minister again offers these appointments for his political reasons as a quality. In doing so, he simply says that he has completely waived the fundamental task to which he committed himself in his next speech to bring Slovenian justice closer to European standards and European standards. For such things, such recruitments, such solutions and such conduct would simply not be possible in a normal European country. Not only is it unacceptable, it might not be. What is happening in Slovenia in justice during this period is beyond all the limits of normal European standards. For all these reasons, it is clear that Mr Minister should leave his job. And I firmly believe that today, too, this composition that is here reflects it in some way. We don't see a Prime Minister supporting his minister. If I considered this to be so important, I would certainly prefer it to all other work obligations. That says a lot. The behaviour of the Minister in the government has also been many times, this is a public secret, destructive in terms of protecting Slovenian national interests. He has always opposed the solutions that went towards the protection of the Slovenian border, the protection of Slovenian citizens and citizens, so in my opinion there can be no coincidence that today the key person – the Prime Minister of the Government is not here. The second is the question of how the government intends to say goodbye to Mr Goran Klemenčič. In a normal country, according to everything that Mr Goran Klemenčič has said, he should leave his job because he would have been relieved; if he had not admitted his own responsibility – which obviously has problems – he would have taken this responsibility and left alone. This government, however, proposes it as the European Commissioner for Human Rights for the Council of Europe; obviously with a view to finally sending it to others. But the way the government decided to do so is completely wrong. This is also one of the arguments you can use today in voting. It is a matter of responsibility for the actions, conduct and position of the Minister, which, as a result, have lost confidence in the role of minister and in the judicial institutions on the one hand. On the other hand, the responsibility for failing to bring the European Union and its standards closer to the European Union and to the actual Slovenian judiciary, regardless of its values, standards and standards. Even in his recruitment he not only tolerated but apparently also supported systematically, even by the Constitutional Court established violations of human rights. All of this together, given the fact that I said at the outset that the obvious system does not work, which is responsible under the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because it is responsible for the work of the Minister of Justice in its field, must be sufficient to confirm the discharge of the Minister of Justice and thus avoid – for you believe that they also have a very good view of what is going on in Slovenia – all these things are then opened up in the Council of Europe and elsewhere. This would not be good for Slovenia, in the interest of Slovenia, in its development interest; it is stated, however, that today, Minister of Justice Goran Klemenčič is allowed to vote in favour of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	You received the Minister of Justice's reply to the interpretation on 27 October 2017. I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Mag. Goran Klemenčič for reasons of written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the introductory part, even because of the time limit, I cannot respond to all the observations that I have, as false and unfounded reasons, argued with the facts and data already in the written reply you have before you. I will focus on a few key things, and then we will spend the day together with a certainly useful, dignified and fruitful debate, as is usually the interpretations in this National Assembly. First of all, Irangate. The perceptions of the interpellation candidates are that I have deceived the public and acted improperly as the chairman of the KPK on the suspicion of money laundering and financing of terrorism in the NLB. It is an unreasonable statement without a basis in the true conduct of the KPK as an institution and me as its chairman. The facts which are known or should be known to the applicants – as they are already based on the findings of the committees currently under way by the MPs of the interpellation candidates – are some of these marked by the degree of secrecy of their choice – are the following. The Anti-Corruption Commission notified the police of the suspicion of money laundering, one of the lead investigators of the National Investigation Office, and handed him the document it received from the covert applicant. She did so in a manner and in a procedure that was customary and legal in the case of whistleblowers. Protection of covert applicants was in all cases the primary responsibility and responsibility of the PSC. The Anti-Corruption Commission has, on the basis of a document obtained from the whistleblower, further formally verified, within the framework of its legal powers, through the Bank of Slovenia and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering on any data that would indicate the suspicion of potential corruption under the jurisdiction of the PSC; however, it has not received or confirmed such information. However, she received feedback from the police that the forecasting process was under way, so she stopped her further procedures. Why? As the KPK does not have the authority to investigate the suspicion of money laundering and even less the power to exercise it effectively. Later, on the first day that I, as the Minister of Justice by the State Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office, was informed that the State Prosecutor's Office had never been informed of this matter by the police, not in the form of an indictment or in the form of a report – which was then, I admit, kindly speaking, unusual – at the government's meeting, I proposed extending the agenda by addressing this point. The President of the Government supported my proposal that the competent ministry and authorities prepare a report on this matter. I also informed the public about this in agreement with the President of the Government that day. The applicants further say that if the KPK had actually indicated the crime to the police, it had not done so in accordance with the prescribed circumstances and that the process could have been less successful as well. Two things to clarify: the form was correct and in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in the case of documentation obtained by whistleblowers. For the purposes of this interpretation, the applicants also explain themselves in their own way to the Institute of Complaints. The Supreme Court’s judicata is clear in this regard — the complaint constitutes a declaration of a criminal offence, given in any form and, according to the content, constitutes the first information on the offence. Judgement of the Supreme Court. Furthermore, clearly and unequivocally, the fact that the proponents had been silenced, but had already known before the intervention, is also that the police began an investigation of Irangate's so-called case several months before the document was submitted by the KPC on the basis of significantly more extensive and qualitative data received from the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and from Sova and lasted until the beginning of 2012. In other words, the content of the document obtained by the Anti-Corruption Commission from the whistleblower and handed over to the police, and in general the way the document was transmitted to the police, did not have and could not have had any actual or even less legal, evidentiary or otherwise taken into account, but certainly did not have any decisive importance in the course or conclusion of the police investigation, which began at least one year before the transmission of this document and ended more than one year after that. The KPC's conduct in this matter was, again and again, correct, professional and above-standard in view of the limited powers of the KPC in the area of criminal investigation; in particular, my notification after the government's meeting on 15 June was correct and consistent with what the KPC had done in this case at the time. A special commission of inquiry has been set up on this subject today before the National Assembly of this National Assembly. This is a place to clear up matters and determine the political responsibility of the participants or then responsible officials; not interpellation with a poorly disguised personal note from the applicants. The next set I want to touch is the reputation of Slovenia and ineffective justice or judicial backlog. One of the perceptions of the interviewers is that at a time when Slovenia is supposed to lose its reputation in Europe because of justice and its inefficiency, the Minister of Justice was objectively responsible, if not subjectively responsible. It is difficult to say what Slovenia's reputation, its institutions, its policies and the statements of its politicians in Europe is, but I can say with certainty – although I do not think that justice works optimally – that Slovenia's reputation for justice does not fall into the European Union; on the contrary. The first issue, the European Union, when I took up my mandate, Slovenia had eight concrete recommendations or criticisms by the European Commission on justice in the European Semester. The latest review of the European Semester, which was published this year, no more criticisms or recommendations in the field of justice have been published. Official document of the European Commission. Many European institutions are expected to draw attention to judicial backlogs, as you claim, in this particular mandate. Indeed, several European institutions spoke in my mandate about judicial delays; not as you say, but as a tribute to the progress made. Last year was the first time in almost 20 years that Slovenia was removed from the Council of Europe from the list of countries with a systemic problem of judicial backlog and the Lukend case closed. The comparison of judicial statistics is eloquent. The number of outstanding cases last year was 184 thousand, still an extremely large number. Do you know what the 2011 number was like five years ago? 57% higher. The average rescue time dropped from 4.5 months in 2012 to 3.7 months in 2016. It also reveals an insight into the most relevant international research in this area, the official scales of the European Commission, the so-called Justice Scoreboard, which compares the judicial institutions and systems of the Member States of the European Union each year and also evaluates them according to the methodology developed. What comes out of the comparison? In 2014, when we took office, on average, justice lasted 400 days; in 2017, it is resolved within 277 days. The number of pending cases has decreased. In 2014, 16 cases per 100 people were unresolved, and in 2017 there were 9.3 such cases. Equally eloquent is the comparison for a longer period of time. If we look at the average time of dealing with civil, economic, administrative and other matters at first stage. While the year was 2010 – 154 days, in 2015 and 2016 – 82 days respectively. I know, listening to numbers and statistics is getting tired, I am aware of this; but efficiency is measurable, unlike the flat-rate evaluations and policies that are heard too often by the proponents here. Today, this efficiency is increasing despite the constant decline in the number of judges who are still large. We are third in Europe by number of judges, but the number of stamina is falling. And do you know when there were the most judges in Slovenia? At the time of Janshea's first government. Because of Lukend’s problem, she hired nearly 16% of the additional officials. These are the facts. As early as 2011, there were a thousand 18 judges in Slovenia. Today, there are over 800 of them, and the trend is declining. These are facts that do not benefit the perceptions of interpolation, as it is obvious that the situation in justice is improving. Maybe slower than you'd like to be, definitely slower than I want to be; but you wouldn't be telling the truth if you said you weren't. And the fact is, many good things have been done by the judiciary itself. However, it is a fact from which we cannot avoid that certain matters in the area of economic and banking crime do not take place satisfactorily or optimally. And that's my headache. This is a well-founded expectation for the public and this is a fertile ground for political struggle and prestige; instead of adopting proposals such as the final phase of the CAP-N, but more on this later. Applicants further argue that research shows extremely low public confidence in justice. This cannot be disputed, even though this is not uniform; and that is why I should be personally responsible. The fact is, however, that the level of confidence in justice among the public is low. The lower confidence among the Slovenian population is enjoyed only by political parties, each government and parliament as an institution. It is an obvious paradox – confidence in the judiciary was higher at a time when the backlogs were twice as high and when the share of politicians, different mayors and economists or reverberate cases of so-called elites in various criminal proceedings and premonition procedures was almost null and void. That's what's worth thinking about. Such a paradox further deepens the fact that trust falls among those who have not had personal experience with the work of justice and listen to it in the main debate in the National Assembly and the performance of individual politicians with a personal attitude towards justice; unlike those who are also actual users of judicial services. They have an inappropriately better opinion on the situation in Slovenian justice, although we still understand each other, far from good. These are studies carried out by the Faculty of Applied Social Studies in Nova Gorica, among others. Why am I stressing this? Because it's an institution that, I believe, even the proponents can't account for belonging, as you say, to the transition left. What does that tell us? It tells us something about the planned and targeted creation of perception that there is no rule of law. Whoever's doing this is probably gonna talk to us today. In fact, it is also difficult for me to give a credible answer in my role to citizens and citizens who come to me that the rule of law is always working, that equality before the law depends on the wallet or the size of the mailbox; when someone who does not meet the conditions for it is found at the weekend prison and where justice would say that he is in a real, closed prison. Since we have spectacular house investigations years later, nothing happens or does not happen fast enough in later procedures. Once the case law has been settled only after several years, however, the period of uncertainty and unequal treatment, when one evidence is eliminated, does not take place for the other. When disputed banking practices are recognised as acceptable business risk; when wills are made; when small amounts are deposited with families. We agree on this – these are systemic problems, some of them are transcendent problems. Both are not only characteristic of Slovenia, but they are not – and we are very different here – possible to solve with revolution, lustration or fire action. Even less so, with extraordinary meetings and a thunderbolt about criminal justice due to its own personal political or legal slips. Human rights. In connection with them, it is also clear in the interpretation that Slovenia is allegedly particularly in violation of human rights in my mandate, which should also be noted by the European Court of Human Rights. If at least we care a little about the facts, it cannot be said well-intentionedly. It is in this mandate that the Ministry of Justice has taken responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of judgments and has made tangible progress. Slovenia had 309 outstanding judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in 2014, and today it has some over 40. In less than three years, we have come to 15% from the 95 % inefficiencies of the European Court of Human Rights rulings and continue with this trend. This was also responded by the competent committee of the Council of Europe, which said that Slovenia no longer has a systemic problem with judicial backlogs, and received several final resolutions which praised Slovenia and completed certain pilot projects with regard to the European Court of Human Rights's implementing judgments. Six such resolutions were adopted in Strasbourg during my term of office. Do you know how many had previously been independent of the Republic of Slovenia? One in the case of Rehbock. In June this year, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe Jagland and the Director-General of the Council of Europe's Directorate-General for Human Rights and Rule of Law, Boillat, explicitly highlighted Slovenia's new approach as an example to the other Member States in implementing the European Court's judgments. The same was done by the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights this year. Next, the Council of Europe also welcomed Slovenia's significant progress in the prison system and the implementation of the recommendations of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The last one was on a periodic visit to Slovenia this year. His report has been positive since his last visit in 2012. The applicants' claims that we are the largest human rights violator in this mandate as a country are challenged by verifiable facts; however, they are persistently repeated and thus poison public space. These claims lie to the words of the Director-General, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the Director-General of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and the Rule of Law, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. Or perhaps, only possibly, the words of these institutions and persons lie to the words of the proposer. One of the candidates' views is that, as Minister, he should be responsible for not preparing appropriate legislative changes that would bring Slovenia closer to the values of the European Union. This same union, which, as I have mentioned briefly before, welcomes the progress made in the area of judicial reform in recent years, undisputedly in various forums. In the fact that we have drafted 30 laws and more than 40 sub-laws in three years at the Ministry of Justice, this observation is therefore at least unusual. All these rules were not intended for themselves, but had clear objectives – to ensure greater efficiency, accountability and transparency in the functioning of Slovenian justice in the broad sense, systemic and long term; at the same time to ensure greater legal security for the individual and a better business environment. The urgency of the responses we received in this regard makes it possible to know that we have raised the right questions, that the changes were not only superficial or seeming; but, more or less, they represented root interventions where they are needed. Change requires courage and perseverance, especially in an environment where so many different interests, stakeholders, lobbying and more or less independent, independent actors operate. The only rules we can all agree on are rules where we don't change anything. Let us therefore see what we have brought to the government and the parliamentary tables, and the proposaler feels that it was bad, ideological or contrary to the values of the European Union. We have carried out one of the most extensive reforms in procedural law in the field of fair procedure, which lays down rules of civil and economic disputes in a way that we have committed the parties to greater care and responsiveness, including by sanctioning delay; on the other hand, we have placed leverage in the hands of the judge for a more focused, faster and quality trial. We have legislated collective actions as a significant improvement in the access of individuals to justice in cases of mass injury. With this, we have given the small man the opportunity to choose the right faster and more effectively against the mass contaminants of the environment, in the event of massive infringements of consumer rights and labour rights. We have amended the Penal Code to protect the rights of workers, weaker social groups, whistleblowers, journalists who disclose classified information in the public interest; we have abolished the statute of limitations when the convict is on the run; we have raised the penalties for corruption crimes and, consequently, the excessive deadlines for such acts. Are these solutions political, ideological, bad, contrary to the values of the European Union? At least 20 years too late – but you cannot blame me for this because you passed this law in the first Janša government – we, as one of the last countries in Europe, have eliminated the demand for coloured fraud in crimes related to the bank hole and economic crime. We have strengthened legislation on tax evasion and abuse of internal information. This is probably contrary to the values of those responsible for the bank hole on the one hand and on the other; this is certainly not contrary to the values of the European Union. We've changed the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions. They have established a probation service with European Union funds, which governments of different colours have mainly written about action plans and resolutions 15 years ago. We have restricted the possibility of abuse of medical excuses for non-incarceration. Is all of this contrary to the values of the European Union and only politically and ideologically? In this mandate, we have introduced additional restrictions on the implementation of social benefits. Banning banks from paying these funds for their administrative expenses. We have introduced wider access to free legal aid. Restricted the possibility of concealing property in bankruptcy and abuse of personal bankruptcy. Restricted payments to bankruptcy managers in so-called empty bankruptcys. Is this also contrary to the values of the European Union, as you tell me? Furthermore, in this mandate, we have transferred disciplinary proceedings against judges from the Court itself to the Council of Justice. We have set up a Commission for Ethics and Integrity in the Court and the State Prosecutor's Office. We have significantly improved the procedure and strengthened the procedure in the selection of judges and prosecutors with mandatory tests, interviews and greater transparency. We have committed the Prosecutor's Office to the preparation of annual work programmes and to the definition of measurable work results. Within the framework of the Special Prosecutor's Office, we have legally established a special department for the seizure of property of illegal origin. With a change of order, for the first time in history, we have made it possible to photograph judges and provide a basis for the accessibility of judgments and internet entries to all citizens. We have set up separate opinions in the Supreme Court, extended free access to the Court Register for everyone with Internet access. Is such transparency due to ideological beliefs and contrary to European values, as the proponents argue? By amending the law, we have strengthened the institution of the Ombudsman. The Courts Control, Organisation and Operation Service, which was only a dead letter on the Courts Act for four years, has come to life; even so, some in the Court today are considering an initiative to assess the constitutionality of more than four years old, because we have finally started to apply it. After twenty years we have renewed the institution of the State Defence Service as the representative of the financial and legal interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the name and interest of taxpayers; and especially in the work of representing Slovenia before foreign courts and arbitrations, we have strengthened its responsibility and flexibility. This can also be understood as something that contradicts the values of Europe. There is already a law on enforcement and insurance on your hands, which brings online auctions to avoid corruption risks in the sale of real estate; in particular, adequate safeguards to prevent people from being thrown out of their homes due to smaller debts. In the public debate – and I believe that before the end of December in the government – there is also the first independent law that will completely renovate the system of judicial experts, valuers and interpreters. You can tell me again that I'm tired of listing you. Perhaps so, but I am pleased to have something to say, and I could also list if I did not have time limits, concrete results; and not flat and populism readings. What I wrote down was actually done in three years. To date, none of our laws, although many were brought before the Constitutional Court, have fallen to the Constitutional Court. By the time we were four, we had confirmations in favor of us and the National Assembly. At the same time, I believe, as quickly as possible, we responded to specific cases of excellence when a marriage intervention was needed. Remember the unforeseeable, unworthy high-ranking legal fees; the high awards to managers for virtually nothing work in empty bankruptcys; the avoidance of prison sentences with questionable medical excuses, the 20-year calvary of the Shilih family, the abuse of personal bankruptcys. We have significantly strengthened the education and training of judicial builders and have provided additional funds from the new financial perspective. A few more concluding words in this introduction. I have previously cited some of the facts which are directly contrary to the applicants' claims. However, I do not want to, and I stress this, that these statements are understood as satisfaction or even self-satisfaction with the state of Slovenian justice. This is certainly not optimal or satisfactory. As Minister of Justice, I feel co-responsible, so we can agree here. Responsible for the lack of trust and confidence in the rule of law. Slovenian justice in its broadest sense has problems, sometimes larger, sometimes smaller – with efficiency, with quality, with a lack of uniformity in judicial practice, with resistance to change. Sometimes with management, sometimes with spelling, generation gap, with taking responsibility, and much too closed into its housing features, such as other branches of government and state administration. But, and this is important, Slovenian justice also has problems with the work of politics, which demonises it as a villain and repeats that everything in it is in vain; which of course it does not. This unhealthy and marked poisoning of the relationship between institutions and individuals is an excellent field just to ensure that nothing changes, to take the will of those good and self-sufficient individuals who bear their judicial, prosecutorial and legal claims with dignity and desire to make positive changes. And we are responsible for this situation for all politicians, not just the Minister of Justice, but especially those who have systematically undermined the credibility of the rule of law and its institutions over the past ten years. This leads to an irrational charge, which is harmful and dangerous in the long run. In view of you, honourable Members and Members, I call on you not to support the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal for my resolution, because it has largely no real basis and is also aimed at making it difficult for the government and the coalition Members to adopt further reform projects in the field of justice. I am thinking, inter alia, of the reform of criminal justice, the establishment of a centralised specialised court responsible for so-called banking crime, the amendment of anti-corruption legislation and the law on judicial enforcement. All these projects are in final stages. If I don't spend the weekend cleaning up my office at the Ministry of Justice because you're going to vote my resignation, I promise to work with my extraordinary team of experts at the Ministry of Justice to the end. A team that isn't numbered, and I thank her here today. The Ministry of Justice is one of the smallest budgetary users and has one of the smallest human resources plans in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But we are working; we are working on the path of deliberate, integrated and decisive progress that has taken place, which we intend to encourage until the end of the mandate, in order to improve the quality of Slovenian justice and the quality of the rule of law in a way that the average citizen and the economy will feel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Dragan Matić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear members of the Government, esteemed Minister Goran Klemenčič, dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to start by looking a little wider at the history of interpretations in our mandate. It is the tenth interpellation concerning the members of this government, this time against the Minister of Justice. Of this, five interpretations were initiated by the Slovenian Democratic Party against ministers under the quotas of the Modern Centre Party or the government as a whole. The latter is considered, in particular, an attack on the Modern Centre Party, as it leads the government coalition. Today's interpolation is therefore the sixth in a series filed against ministers under the Modern Centre Party quota. A few days ago, a constitutional indictment was announced against the President of the Government, who is also the President of the Modern Centre Party. It is more than obvious that the Party of the modern centre of thorns is the fifth Slovenian Democratic Party. The latter is understandable. It is two diametrically opposite concepts of policy management. In the case of the Modern Centre Party, it is a new policy, a policy of cooperation, integration, and in particular the creation of political stability, which is a prerequisite for economic growth and social well-being and the progress of society without unnecessary ideological fighting. In the case of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it has been clear for decades that it has been a policy to divide individual groups of citizens, to avoid intolerance to individual categories of the population, to foreigners, to minorities of all kinds, to raise old wounds from the past and to repeat the mistakes of our grandfathers. The technique used by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this regard has been tested – the use of non-realitys, discredits and structures in the fight against political opponents who are perceived as enemies and not as opponents. In total, the Slovenian Democratic Party shall implement it under the leadership of its President. As a first-class transition policy, which started its political career in the communist regime, it has been guided by more than two and a half decades. The driver, who is also a key motive for today's interpolation, is a passionate desire that even at the cost of political instability and social chaos, even at the cost of the return of the crisis period, power will come and try to establish an authoritarian regime following the example of countries that are geographically east of us. To prevent this from happening, since 2014, the guarantor has been the modern centre's Party. The modern centre is a party that has contributed a key share in this mandate in terms of measures that have led to a rise in all indicators of social standard and a significant improvement in the quality of life of citizens; let us talk about an increase in GDP, a steep decline in unemployment, an increase in minimum wage or pension, investment in science, rapid improvement in the economic environment or foreign investment. The main problem of this government, and in particular the Modern Centre Party, is that, after a year of dry cows, it is difficult to meet all the legitimate expectations and wishes of all social groups today, despite the steep growth, despite the high tides and good indicators; at the same time, it is difficult to maintain a sound macroeconomic and fiscal base. A similar problem, therefore, is how to meet all the expectations that are only increasing when the situation improves and improves, and so do our ministers. It is certainly not necessary to stress that by constantly distorting the facts and constantly new attacks, one policy option, including through the abuse of the interpolation institute, does not help to improve the situation. Minister Goran Klemenčič is a good example when we are talking about the phenomenon, when progress is rewarded with the interpretation and accusations of a party who obviously does not care enough about the public interest. Let us leave aside the first part of the interpolation relating to Goran Klemenčič's role when he was still in charge of the Commission to prevent corruption. That this matter has nothing to look for in interpretation, since it is a period before the ministry of Goran Klemenčič, it is obvious. It is also clear that the findings provided by the Slovenian Democratic Party are not justified. This is increasingly demonstrated in the Farrokh/Irangate case by new facts which set up a picture of the actual situation. In this case, the attempt to blur and distract attention from the real issues has already been explained, but there will certainly be an additional explanation for this further. In this regard, let me mention only the conclusion that during the management of Goran Klemenčič, the KPK, in addition to the Anti-Money Laundering Office, was practically the only body that in this case had ever seen the suspicion of criminal services and therefore handed the matter over to the police on a consistent path of cooperation between the two institutions. But let's ask ourselves, what can really be the topic of interpolation? This is what the real results are in improving legislation in this mandate. Does the minister really deserve an evaluation from the second part of the interpolation? This interpolation seems to be more of an indictment with a proposal for a conviction than an interpolation. Is it true that Goran Klemenčič is responsible for the failure to prepare the legislation necessary for the reform of justice and other urgent changes? What is the situation today compared to that of Minister Klemenčič? Let's take a few examples. The conditions for the decision to take a prison sentence for health reasons are tightened. However, with the help of the abuse of medical certificates, a particular person who has been convicted of crimes of economic crime has been released, not playing basketball today, but sitting in prison. The limitation of the time limit at a time when the convict is on the run or avoids the cessation of imprisonment or the payment of the penalty. It is no longer worth wandering the world and speculating, as the former corrupt director, Luke Koper, has tried, for example, to make you a free man by the time you get home. Penalties for corrupt crimes against the economy and against official duty have also been increased. This will, for example, deter officials from the former practice, which has actually happened, for example, that in the government palace the most responsible statesman would sit with the tycoons and negotiate with him under the table the sale of state shares in the largest trading company in exchange for influence on the media. It is also gratifying that in this mandate, after a ten-year infertile debate, Slovenia finally received a professional probation service among the last in Europe, which relieves prisons and allows for the suspension of sentences in a humane way. At least in the field of justice, the problem with the heat of court writing is solved because someone has a little too small a container. Even in the mail window, it will not be possible to speculate about which writing you will pick up and which you will not; electronic service will also be strengthened. A rather welcome measure against certain officials who are already legendary in avoiding the service of subpoenas and decisions. In particular, it is worth mentioning that the legal procedure replaces the vicious circle of return to retrial; the possibility of abuse of the Institute of Liabilities in personal bankruptcy and the possibility of concealing property in bankruptcy is significantly reduced. It is also essential that the justice system has been rationalised and strengthened in this mandate to invest in the infrastructure it uses, which in itself improves the effectiveness of justice or provides better conditions for the rule of law. Speaking of measurable indicators presented by Minister Klemenčič, it is certainly particularly important that progress and a positive trend in managing the crisis and greater efficiency of the courts are noticeable. This in recent years, in addition to domestic statistics, also shows an overview of the situation carried out by the European Commission and reflects, for example, the fact that our judiciary no longer has specific recommendations or criticisms from the European Commission and that the number of outstanding judgments of the European Court of Human Rights is drastically decreasing. I am pleased to see that the positive measures provided for in this mandate could continue for a long time and that time does not allow me. This will be an opportunity for further discussion. Let me conclude by stating that Goran Klemenčič had pursued the objective of strengthening the efficiency, transparency and accountability of Slovenian justice in his current mandate. In this mandate, there have been large-scale changes that give the judiciary more tools and less opportunities for an excuse for its own inefficiency. The results are visible, the trend is positive. From everything that has been said, it is clear that we will not support the modern interpolation centre in the Group of the Parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Although I went to bed late or very late last night because of the activities I had last night, after midnight, I will do my best to speak and not read. Two of my forerunners have had reading exercises; we usually read when we are not sure of what we are saying. And we don't read when we're talking out here and out here. I'll try to do that. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I got a point. We've also been listening to the billing for 15, 20 years ago. Since the President has not acted on anything, this is allowed and I will also delimit myself, in addition to telling my position. We will, of course, support the interpolation, I can say that in the beginning, but we will go in order. The main interpretation concerns the issue of money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank and the question of legislation in the field of justice, which has not been adopted, should be the subject of some further discussion. I myself will touch some other things more or less and try to at least partially respond in my position to what Mr Minister has said. Mr Minister has listed a number of European institutions; on the screen in the hall there were some graphs that we have not seen, which none of us have seen, but fine, maybe it's an ornament. And all these European institutions, all the statistics and all the statements speak for what he's done. I'll just give you one piece of information. Since 1994, Slovenia has somehow been involved in the European Court of Human Rights proceedings, or it has also dealt with the situation and cases from Slovenia. From then until April or March this year, the European Court of Human Rights has declared 341 cases relating to Slovenia. 341 cases! In 17 cases, the European Court of Human Rights confirmed the judgments of our courts. In 17 cases! In four cases a settlement occurred; all the other cases fell, it would be said. In other words, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned Slovenia for violating human rights and for paying such and different amounts. To make the irony even more ironic, the minister boasted of the Shilih case, the 20 - year - old boy who was shot so far in the hospital in Isola in 1990 that he died as far as we know. And now the minister boasts that this case has been solved. Of course, if it was resolved by the European Court of Human Rights and not by our court. What does a minister have to do with anything other than brag? Let's move on. My colleague Grimes talked a little bit about the Criminal Procedure Act. Look what's going on. You all know what was going on. In this Chamber we had a general discussion in June, spoke external experts, spoke judges, spoke prosecutors, spoke professors, and there was no word in this microphone to support the law. It wasn't said: we support the law. Representatives of some parliamentary groups, which I will not appoint from collegiateness to them, told me when I asked them what you were doing, for God's sake, with the law on criminal proceedings. And they told me, the minister is threatening us. I can't name them because I'd sew them up, as they're called, but I believe them. Nevertheless, the minister came by law to this national assembly, which no one in this country supported. Of course, he will then say in the debate that he was supported by the Supreme Court. As a result of an article giving a slightly different situation to the Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Court then said that they were still quite pleased; but on the basis of this, the law was totally rejected by all the other experts, three professors of three law colleges, on the Committee. And after all, ladies and gentlemen, you have also rejected him, all of you. He got 32 and 33 votes. I do not recall the law that would have been passed in this national assembly by 32 votes. And after the veto, of course, the law fell. But look at him, the splinter, the minister doesn't give up yet, but he's insistent. As far as I know, and what I hear from the Members who are right in front of me, the Minister will do a little trick. We will get the same law on the table without a famous article submitted by Nova Slovenije; this will try to silence pensioners, Desus and SD, and will be tabled by Members of the Modern Centre Party. And so we will come to the same law that no one in this country approves. And interestingly, the ones who use it most or use it very much, the police criminals, their chairman is sitting next to Mr Klemenčič, but her faith has told her publicly that this law is unfair, that it simply favours the rich and that it puts in the basket of the poor, who will not be able to afford lawyers and who will be in a worse position. He's in a worse position. Minister, I must thank you for doing this hours before the vote in this National Assembly; whether you are not my political option or not. Such conduct is fair, fair, from the point of view of those who will use the law, namely, police officers and criminals. In socialism, in 1989 legislation was amended and the presence of a lawyer in police proceedings was introduced. This law now gives the opportunity not to do so. Today, 27 years after the socialist move, this was the 50th section of the Internal Affairs Act, for those of you who will go to research. And this law will be discussed again. The question is, what will be the spine on this side? Sometimes she's agile; we'll see. Let's move on. If, in 1945 or 1946, Ivan Macek — Matija stood before the then delegates, the MPs, or what they had been, or before the media at the time, and said that the decisions or delays in the trial would cause the heads to fly. I'm pretty sure his bosses would say, "You can't talk like that, but you can't talk like that. Today, 67 years after that, the Minister in a democratic state stands in front of the cameras and says, "They will fly heads if this case doesn't end." It was Mr. Bavčar's case. What happened? The president of the government said he didn't want to talk like that. The President of the Supreme Court was quiet, but the judges did their job. But the media did. It wouldn't have happened in 1945, I'm sure it wouldn't have happened; it wouldn't have happened any time later, not at all in the '80s. Let's move on. We now have the famous Fisher-Zalar-Scroller case. Finally, five months before the statute of limitations, these two gentlemen should be brought before a judge; for the first time, 24. Ten, two, six. 11 and 3 10. 11. You haven't stepped in once. You know why not. Because they can't be served by mail. Did Mr. Matić think about this example? No, I'll get to that. It's like Mr Fisher wouldn't be sitting across from the train station. He's at work there, and he'd be served there. As if they could not apply the same article of the law they applied in the case of Dragica Kotnik. The police waited for her in front of the apartment, brought her to court in Ljubljana, and performed the service. The law also allows detention. Why don't we send Mr. Zalar or Fisher to jail for evasive action? Mr. Matić, we're moving right on. You used to talk about the sights of avoiding the heat. Anyone in this Chamber, including you, will tell me one case where there was no trial for evading Mr. Janez Janša. Give me an example. Because he didn't want to take the invitation and didn't come to court. Give me one physical case. But we're talking about cases where a court appearance is necessary. Presence in proceedings before a court shall be required when evidence against the accused is carried out. But if the evidence of the accused is carried out, not against him; there is no need for him to sit there. You probably know that; or you don't. Try to find this and stop this double service mantra if you don't have to. Now we're going back to Mr. Zalar and Mr. Fisher. February 10th is the indicative time limit for ageing. I'm sure the judge in charge of the case has shown some degree of seriousness. In the 15 days of the three hearings, which is slightly relative to the Bosnian average. There's an average of a lot more. Mr Pogačnik, President of the District or District Court, wrote about this in one of his articles. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday are judged; and Friday is written. That's his record. This judge has shown some degree of seriousness and is obviously working hard, but the minister's statement is missing — they will fly heads. Why don't you say that in this case, Minister? Can you explain that? Why don't you say it in this case? These two gentlemen are suspected of a crime that you have also identified as a corruption act. There is a document with your signature, where you wrote that Mr Škrlec's employment at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is a day before Janša's government's act of corruption. You acted corruptly. Here's your signature. But it's missing. They're gonna fly their heads. Where is it? Will it or won't it? You know, these are double criteria. Let's move on. You've been bragging about what you've done before. I Will Count Two Cases, 22 / 22 5. 2017, of which more than half a year now, the Republic of Slovenia has been obliged to implement Directive 2014/41/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Investigation Order in Criminal Matters. Six months ago. The time for this was three years, because the matter was adopted three. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Today, six months later, all conditions have been created for Slovenia to be tried for this matter – the case has not yet been introduced, but there is a chance that it will soon – because a wonderful team at the Ministry has not done its job. You're worth it. Worse still, Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25. Ten. 2012 laying down minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. Hey, victims of crime! Aren't you guys for wow?Oh, my God! Do you know that we should implement it into our legal order 16. 11. 2015? So two years ago. And a wonderful team, nothing yet. Nothing yet. The fact that we are going to pay a penalty is not a problem, because then the Minister may already be the Commissioner. He will not pay it, for it will be paid by the state or by the taxpayers. You used to show some graphs there, because you didn't see anything, so I listened to you. You have listed everything that has been adopted from the point of view of legislation. I wasn't preparing the data. I was preparing it this morning at 3:00. I did not prepare data for 2017, that is true, but I have data for 2016. For 2016 you planned the adoption of 19 laws. In due time, you brought two laws from the nineteenth to the National Assembly. With much delay, you brought in five more laws. Twelve laws since the nineteenth, and in a document called the Government's normative programme, you did not even bring it, in 2016. How's the efficiency? Bad. You were talking about investigating a bank hole and some legal changes. In that part you were right that some of the legal changes were adopted, I cannot deny them here; but the result. Iceland discovered its bank hole two years ahead of us. 26. Ten. 2016 last banker sitting in prison. Last one. We discovered a bank hole two years later, and in prison, we have nothing, nobody. There are two judgments that are not yet binding, so that they will be abolished; but for now that is all that is. Your hearing was one of the longest, one farthest. I am in charge of internal affairs and justice within the parliamentary group, and I went to the analysis of your performances a year ago. And I made some promises that they made. You've been spending them like marjets. The promise was so great that I ran out of paper; and I've been writing the questions of letters for two years now because you've made so many promises. But I found no promises with the Minister, and I'm not sending her any questions, at least not on the subject of hearing, because I have nothing to ask her. She didn't promise anything. And you planted the flowers. And one of the flowers was the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. That'll be one of the first priorities. What now? Is there still a priority given that we want to become Commissioner before the end of the mandate? The network of courts has been announced. That will also be a terrible priority. A week ago, I received a letter from the judges who signed. They're not anonymous, but I won't reveal them to you. I was told in this letter that this network of courts is being prepared by Mr Potočar, the one from the Partisan times, a retired judge. A retired judge probably for a lot of money. I will now ask you on the question of how much you have already paid him; and Mrs Pivk. This is the partisan hat that was the President of the Court in Ljubljana. For everything that's been going on around the whole "Friends in bankruptcy" affair, she's got a prize. She came to see you at the Ministry. In the meantime, she forgot to return two phones in court. She forgot to come back, but you've been pulling it for months, because it's nothing, because it's national. This is proven because I have documents about it, I don't have to laugh. I'll show you the documents. And these two are now preparing a network of courts. The judges who wrote to me are cruising. But those judges are much younger than Mr. Potocary. At the hearing, you predicted a serious debate and a serious intervention into the Owl Act. I've had serious discussions, and I'm supposed to be one of the co-authors of the first marriage, and I wasn't involved, and I don't know anything about it. All I know is that some serious debate last year took place on this subject to give them some powers or something. At this hearing, you said that you would seriously open the Owl Act; and the result — nothing. Come in. I'm predicting a supervisor for Slovenian justice. I was so happy to hear that at the hearing. It's gonna be something like that supervisor when you look at it and you see how much someone makes with contracts at the expense of the state. We find ourselves there, too, if that's what it's about. That's good, and I also commended that supervisor back then. And now I've been counting on it to be a supervisor in justice, that'll be really good. What the hell is this? Will it be and when will it be? I don't know. At least I don't know if he would be. When you left the Anti-Corruption Commission, you wrote a long letter that everyone was watching, everyone was reading it, and Mrs Bratusek's government was looking at it. She even said that it was true that these were really the problems of this country that really needed to be solved. Even when I read it myself, I have to say, I was kind of glad to read it. It also said: I demand the establishment of an inspection for public procurement. Now you're a member of the government, and now you're writing laws. Where is this marriage? On your resignation from the Anti-Corruption Commission, you also said that it was imperative to adopt a new Law on Access to Public Information which would allow for the disclosure of legal advice, including in the field of communication, sponsorship, donor contracts concluded by state-owned enterprises Do we already have this? [[..]] Do you know if we have it? I don't know. I don't know if we'd have that. At the time of the performance, you spoke about the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is urgently needed. I've never seen anything on my own. Maybe Mr. Shircel knows something about it, but I don't know about it. Not to mention that we have a law on inheritance. I don't know if anyone knows how long this law has been? It's from 1976. Well, it's probably nice to judge him, but let's just leave it. These are also your words: I will propose a legislative procedure in terms of significantly greater public and transparency of the various disciplinary, ethical appeals procedures; also lawyers, notaries, executioners and the State Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. What's up with that? Is there anything better about that now? I get answers to questions from Members that there are basically no proceedings against any lawyers; or if they are, they end up with an exemption or something. I don't know if there's anything new going on here. You have also foretold in its entirety – here with fire and sword, because it is justice, so you have said with fire and sword – the valuers, the experts, the interpreters, the executors, the governors, and this. Because it's not about direct justice, but it's about important people who influence these things. Here with fire and sword. Did anyone see anything burning? I didn't see anything. Let's move on. One key priority will be the establishment of a system for implementing legislation. One of the key priorities is the implementation of legislation. I don't know exactly what you were thinking, but I didn't see anything coming. You also spoke at the hearing about the urgency of changes in medical apologies and service. I don't know about the service. I don't know if anything special happened, but with the doctor's apologies, I know it did, with the marriage. A forecast of the introduction of a system of mentor judges and periodic examinations. You were talking about young judges being thrown into the water too quickly and that they urgently need mentors, as well as exams. I didn't notice you did that. We've got a series of marjets from the hearing, and now they're all wrapped up, and then they were beautiful. And the man was impressed — yeah, and now something is really going to happen in justice. Minister, we will say this again – I had to write this to myself according to today's media coverage – you are suggesting in the media today that the Slovenian Democratic Party has terrible skeletons in the New Credit Bank Maribor. You do not like that procedures were stopped in 2012 or later. The Minister doesn't like this. I'll explain to the public what this is about, not because of you. Minister, you have a direct connection in the Maribor NKB, your wife provides legal services for the Maribor NKB. The 11th month of 2014 – 4 thousand 600 per month for one month 5 thousand 700 and then the 9th month of 2015 – 25 thousand euros per month. She can help you too if she works for the New Maribor Credit Bank, and you'll probably trust her, won't you? At least I would. What's this all about? You will remember that in 2012, 2013, 2014, I do not know exactly when, some terrible inscription in the Journal – this is logical, why Janša and Kovacič communicated. You can imagine them communicating when Jansa was Prime Minister of the Government and Kovacic was Head of the State Bank; and they communicated. And you listed the dispatches there, that and that. That's terrible! Then Kovačič answered and said, "Yes, because I spoke with the owners, but more with Pahor than with Janša, I had more communication there because he has been president for a long time. Well, then nothing. Then they replace the police-criminalist mill; and how it comes to this. I can explain to you how this happens, and this has happened physically. When criminal police seize a server, they'll never look at it, I guess that's not possible for anyone who has a little idea about computer science. What are they doing? In keywords. And if you enter Janša's key word, Kovacich, you get those e-mails out. And if you don't put in the words of Kovach, Pahor, you don't get them out. Then you only have one suspect, bravo me. When the judicial branch of power says ad acta, we're done, there's no crime, and then the minister has a political racket for the media that there are skeletons. Isn't that right?Oh, my God! The speaker spoke about how much the Modern Centre Party contributed to a better life for people. How many pensioners did you get? More than 2%. As far as the other citizens are concerned, they can look at the payroll. And I invite your pensioners to take you out of the payroll or a pension card dated 31. 12. 2004, and then the one on the 31st. 12. 2008 And let's take a look at this amount and another amount. It applies to all workers and all pensioners. Let them look at the left and the right amount and calculate how much the right is higher than the left. It means how much more wages and pensions they had in 2008 than in 2004. Do you know how much? 25%, that's the average. You were in the government, all right. And now it's immodest to brag about 2% or these fictionaries that are going up there. I'd be more modest, you know. Thus, 25% of the plus is in our citizens' wallets between 2004 and 2008. As far as I know, now some figurine is flying in, like, a percentage. Now I will soon be on this, Mr Jurša, in the next term, as much as you will contribute to me. Okay. You're the one who was talking about listing the interpellations and overthrowing the government. Aw, ah, how poor you are. Do you know you're poor? Have mercy on me. But what happened in November 2007? In November 2007, in my memory, to be corrected by my colleagues, the ministries had one minister and one secretary of state. If I'm not mistaken, it was. The summit of preparations for the Presidency of the European Union, the whole of Europe has seen this government overthrow the Presidency. Forum 571 writes a letter, says and urges the European Union countries not to trust the Presidency of Slovenia, because this will not be because Slovenia cannot take over, it will not, because it has an incompetent government. That's when those who have the same color of blood sitting here, with the exception of Desus, write the interpretation to the government. Interpellation to the government less than 2 months before the start of the presidency. And behind this pay phone, the then president of the government called them and said, "Take over the government and take over the presidency." Do you know how they voted? No, no, no. They murmured, made noise, made it impossible for the government to work and prepare for the Presidency of the European Union. That was really bad. That was really bad. But you don't mind today, because today's polls show you zero, and it sucks. Some of the last days have shown me that in this procedure we have initiated around the constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister, we are attacking you. Ah, no! If one were to take the polls into account, the polls show the Social Democrats better. Then we'd try the Jew, say Cerar isn't a target, because he won't be. One more thing, and then I'll be done with it. You will remember the words – They will fly heads. And before that, or in the position of the Member, the Minister spoke about the fact that we now have an important prisoner in the Age because of the amended law. Yes, fine, Beaver. In 1997, Grubelić was convicted of carrying medical certificates from the same doctor for 20 years, and he did not go to prison. There's no point in bragging here. We will support the interpretation because it is for the benefit of the citizens of Slovenia, because it is for the benefit of this country and nothing else. To conclude, however, there is really no point in dealing with such things for these few months. But I'm going to make my own contribution, because I'm one of the last discussers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you, President. Nice greetings to the Council of Ministers, Minister Klemenčič, of course also you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think it is right for me to start by saying, because the predecessor has just raided his predecessors' position in the Desus Group. Those in charge of reading this position, preparing the thesis, or direction, will then prepare a written draft. On the basis of the written draft, all Members and Members may also make comments and, on the basis of those comments, a position shall be drawn up. And I think that it is right for the speaker to read or literally say this position before the Members and Members. But how the positions in other parliamentary groups arise, and I will not deal with this. Of course, I also do not want to discriminate with other parliamentary groups or Members of the individual. But it's only right for me to say one thing. I respect my colleague Gorenak, but he forgot something when he was snoring and pointing at the payrolls and cuts from pensions, that we are also in a government, Minister Andrej Vizjak, for 0.1% of the pension. We must not compare fat cows with cows when they were completely dry. And why they were completely dry is now very difficult to discuss. The Public Finance Balance Act, which we have adopted with you, has done quite a few things that have not been good, and some have been good, and some are still in use today. The intervention of Minister Klemenčič was announced a long time ago because we all know the love between Klemenčič and the Slovenian Democratic Party. And this love has a relatively long beard. It started in the first Pahor government where there was a mag. Mr Klemenčič State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior. It reached its peak in 2013, when another Janša government fell as a result of a report by the Anti-Corruption Commission on the property situation of Janez Janša, led by the current minister. Much later, this report fell at the Supreme Court, as it turned out that Klemenčič had a commission, here I mean KPK, a bad marriage basis. And this poor marriage ground still hasn't changed, even though the entire KPK Senate later resigned. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	I would kindly ask my colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, most of them have listened to Mr Gorenak peacefully, and there is no reason why Mr Jurša should not be all of them together. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	The reports of the KPK on the higher bodies are falling, and today Goran Klemenčič is the Minister of Justice. So he's got a pair of scissors and a canvas in his hands, and actually, nothing happens. At this point, we must also be critical of the Minister. We all know that corruption is still a rakrana of Slovenian society. In his place, however, they did not prepare appropriate legal grounds. Too bad this was a missed opportunity for this government. Of course, we support the Minister of Justice in our party and in the Group of Members. After all, he is a good expert with many experiences. In his mandate, he was able to reduce judicial backlogs, which even in the Council of Europe's view are no longer a systemic problem. To do well, the European Commission also acknowledges that Slovenia's specific recommendations in the field of justice are no longer available. With his team, the Minister has prepared a set of laws and regulations, which is why he is more active in this government, even though he has been broken down by the Criminal Procedure Act, where the Minister also, according to some of our Members and Members, wants a little too much; but we will not reopen these difficulties at this point. Perhaps this matter will be open in debate. Although we appreciate the Minister's work, it is precisely because of his references that we are somewhat disappointed. It may be a level, but in reality we expected bigger and bolder steps in changing the judicial system, which the public simply no longer trusts. And if we don't trust in the rule of law, if people don't feel and believe that we're all the same before marriage, something doesn't count if I can express myself at home. We know that the Minister is working; at the same time, we are aware that restoring confidence is a long-term process. As already mentioned in the introduction, this interpretation is not a big surprise for us, because it is in fact almost personal matters between the Slovenian Democratic Party and Minister Klemenčič. In interpolation, the applicants state the various reasons that are justifiable and many of them are definitely attracted to hair. However, we must say that we have also been skeptical of some of the proposed amendments and are still presenting the novelties of the Criminal Procedure Act; but because of one case, we cannot evaluate the entire part of the Minister negatively. Then we should support some other interpolation substantially earlier. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that Minister Klemenčič has done relatively good work in the field of justice over the past three years. We certainly cannot blame him for his wrongdoing, in the light of at least attempts in the right direction for necessary changes in justice. Of course, we cannot overlook how stubborn a minister can ever be. In other words, his actions with his head through the wall often do not work, but he did not threaten us. Nevertheless, the Minister of Justice was able to improve the situation in justice, which — a hand to the heart — has not yet succeeded any minister before him. Of course, in the Desus Group, we cannot go beyond the fact that the applicants also want to destabilise the coalition with this interpretation and attract a little extra attention, which is their right, of course. In this almost 13-hour debate, however, we want everyone to come together to a solution for more concrete justice in a way that the average citizen and the economy will feel. Therefore, it will not be just a personal account between the Slovenian Democratic Party's proponents and the current Minister of Justice. Like I said, interpolation against mags. We will not support Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. A respected minister with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Welcome back, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, to the regular monthly interpolation against anyone already on the agenda. Interpellation is written according to a well-known model, the introductory historical discreditation under point 1 and point 2 – a selective and objectively unbiased assessment of the government's work and of any minister. Dear Vice-President, allow me to conclude, in the introductions, that this interpretation, like any other under the auspices of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is at least partially incompatible with the Rules of Procedure and could at least be regarded as inadmissible. It refers to a period which is not the subject of Mr Klemenčič's ministry, which is not the subject of a period of work of this government. Since it is not theoretically practical in space and time that we cannot pass through in this way, allow me to concentrate myself on the commercially permissible part of the interpolation, that is to say, in the work of the substantive minister, and at least in this way contribute not to degrade ourselves to the completeness of the interpolation instrument, which is a legitimate and appropriate instrument which the opposition must have in parliamentary democracy in order to oversee the government's work and carry out its fundamental democratic mission. So today we are considering interpolation on work and responsibility, a fact that is one of the more controversial ministers of this government and one of the more effective and decisive ministers of this government. There is no way that we can get rid of the feeling that it is in the core or heart of this interpretation — not only with the proposer, but with the many who support it — that nothing changes in this country, that everything remains the same and that everything that has been done is deliberately overlooked. And to prevent by throwing pollen under the feet the final phase of one of the most extensive reforms of the judiciary, which has been accomplished by mag together with its team and coalition support over the last three years. Goran Klemenčič. In other words, it seems in this society that it is in the interest of this society to avoid more effective prosecution of the most demanding forms of crime, that many may even find it appropriate and self-evident that through procedural manoeuvres of non-removal of mail or other illegal excuses it is possible to prevent the achievement of justice and the guarantee of justice, which is the fundamental task of the State, including our Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the work of the minister is not a fight with windmills on the wind, but it is a struggle with strong interests. And when the state is determined by law and justly wants to ensure the highest standards, especially in the judiciary, all those for whom this means that their work in the shadow of the law will change and become difficult, it seems that they must cut through all instruments to prevent it. As has already been said, Minister Klemenčič is one of those who has embarked very decisively on the difficult task of reforming the judiciary. In the last three years of the mandate, 26 of these are extremely difficult laws in the field of justice. Some of them are still in the drawer, even in coalition coordination. Perhaps with more will — and here the criticism of all of us — we can also speak of 27, 28, or 29 laws in the field of justice. For example, the Law on Systemic Investigations, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, or the Law on Criminal Procedure. However, such or other political overtures have determined that they are still waiting for their final destiny either in government or in this congregation. Since 26 sectoral laws are an extremely wide area and there will be plenty of opportunities for discussion in the next 12 hours, allow me to focus only on the most important achievements of Mr Klemenčič's ministry. The Novela of the Penal Code, where it takes a firm stand for the rule of law also by protecting the weak, should be the issue of trafficking in human beings, forced marriages, criminalisation of work against the fundamental principles of the social state and labour law. Failure to pay contributions to employees is, of course, something that should have been established in our country a long time ago, but it has not. It is now. The collective action law, which represents one of the most modern and logical upgrades of the existing system and allows the weaker to connect together against the large and powerful, provides a tool of equality and protection that we have not known so far. It significantly improves the standard of legal protection of our citizens and citizens against either capital or the country. The Law on Judicial Procedure; one fundamental story on how to increase the efficiency of the work of the courts. Although more than enough opportunities have been offered in previous mandates, it is only now the professional and political will to make it clear, for example, that the permitted audits must be abolished and that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia should actually be the highest court, not the court dealing with trivial matters, and the court, which should deal with cases for which it should in fact be competent and definitively decided on by lower courts. This is also part of ensuring that our Supreme Court will in the future indeed be the one who, through its unprecedented decisions, will be able to apply the principles laid down in the Constitution. It's a state's attorney's law. And here I believe that the Minister has taken a step against the interests of the proposer because he eliminates one of the last relics of the socialist state and in an important part updates and implements new mechanisms of public interest. The State's defence was something where in the modern world, in the face of decision-making at the level of interstate courts, Slovenia needs a strong representation within inter-state, supra-government organisations. And the State's defence in its socialist structure was no longer able to address all the key issues of the future and, above all, could not and could no longer effectively defend the public interest of the people and of the state. And even in this area, despite numerous reservations, many attempts to achieve comprehensive reform even on behalf of the protection of some's own functional interests would not have occurred, the Minister showed with his determination that where there is a will, there is a way. And the path to concrete reform was also political. If you'll allow me, there were a lot of questions about why someone in this country could be subject to execution or sale of their property, property for trivial amounts. This is one of the most serious injustices facing our citizens and citizens. The Minister, who is being intertwined today, has drawn up a law that is in the process and on your benches to eliminate this injustice, or at least limit it to the greatest extent possible, because he has heard and seen with the coalition this plight of the people. The Law on Testing; the possibility of reintegrating people who have committed crimes into society in order to enable them to return human beings and prevent them from committing crimes again, because the system would, in its purely criminal orientation, perform its function in a way that would force them to repeat their crimes and entrapment in a circle of social exclusion. An important moment and an important method that significantly updates Slovenian justice and makes it more just, more with the human face. All of these are topics that the Minister has put on the table despite many very controversial discussions within the profession. Many did not have that courage before him. And so allow me to conclude with a hypothesis that today's vote against interpretation is not even an essential expression of support for Minister Klemenčič. The most important demonstration of support for changes and the need to increase the effectiveness of justice in order to ensure constitutional justice will be demonstrated either by re-supporting ministers in the Government of the Criminal Procedure Act or by our parliamentary signatures to that law, which represents an important step forward towards the persecution of the worst forms of crime. Of course, after the law has been cleansed of what I personally believe was intended to prevent and represent one of the many pollens that the Minister has received in this way and otherwise because many in this country are afraid of decisive steps and determined people. Social Democrats want a just and decisive state, so we will oppose this interpretation. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! The position of minister is one of the most responsible functions in the country. An individual who assumes such a high function must be a person with absolute personality and moral integrity. There's probably no doubt about that. In countries with advanced democracy, this is perfectly self-evident. And as soon as there is any suspicion – I would like to point out, only suspicion – of a certain irregularity – and I also stress this, only irregularities, not the illegality that an official would have committed before or during the performance of his office – will immediately resign from office. This is a practice in the countries of the European Union that have mature democracy. That's not the case with us. In our country, we still have problems taking responsibility of officials, not only objective but also subjective responsibilities. In doing so, I think of all the functions at all levels. However, if we are talking about the role of minister as a person of integrity, in all the facts that will be exposed today, we see that Mr Klemenčič does not achieve the reputation that comes with such a person. Integrity is integrity, consistency, honesty, honesty and credibility. A person with integrity is a person who speaks what he thinks and does what he says. Its actions are in line with moral standards and the legal order in force. But he's the Minister of Magic. Goran Klemenčič person with integrity? Does he really do what he says? I suggest you answer that question yourself, Minister. However, if we look at the particulars of the proposed interpolation, we can say that these obviouss have a basis in both written and publicly accessible materials. They certainly require clear and unequivocal answers and clarifications. In Novi Slovenija we note that the Minister of Justice does not provide convincing answers in his response to the interpretation. First of all, at the time when the Minister was still KPK's president, he was subject to a great shadow of doubt when he fully ensured that he was acting professionally and professionally, even superstandard, in connection with the suspicion of money laundering in NLB. We really can't say that because the document that pointed to the suspicion of a crime of money laundering was very quietly handed over to the police, the NPU. It is true that the agreement between the KPK, the Ministry of the Interior and the police on cooperation in the field of anti-corruption, concluded in June 2010, does not explicitly set out the circumstances; however, it goes to the Criminal Procedure Act. It is not only the submission of documents to a staff member of the NPU, but the loss of a proven value in a further investigation. The same was true of Mr Klemenčič when he was invited to submit documentation to the parliamentary investigative commission concerning the investigation of the bank hole. Despite the indisputable legal basis for the submission of this dossier, Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the President of the KPK rejected the extradition of the requested documentation. His arguments for such a decision, which he handed over to the police and the prosecution, that it was only bank data, bank secrecy and the protection of the applicants, were very pale. We're sure he was a magician. Klemenčič as President of the KPK under the law itself is obliged to ensure that all documentation relating to banking crime, other violations of banking law and infringements are provided for in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. If Mr Klemenčič acted as he should, it would also be much faster to identify irregularities and illegality in the allocation of disputed bank loans in state banks. In Novi Slovenija, we are convinced that whether the rejection of the documentation of the parliamentary inquiry committee was correct and legal or whether its conduct was aimed at protecting those who have drilled a bank hole in our system banks should have been said by the Commission to prevent corruption. Secondly, the great black fox in the area of justice is also due to the failure to implement judicial reform, which, according to the Minister, is comprehensive and fundamental; however, we can argue that it is only the superficial corrections of individual laws and sub-laws, which are far from essential and urgently needed changes in justice. The data from this April that Slovenia remains purely behind on the independence of the judiciary says everything. Of course not, if we look only at the complexity of the procedures for the appointment of judges. Since the Council of Justice first, its determination must be transparent and accessible to the public, its decisions must be clearly and in detail explained. Each member of the Council of Justice shall bear full responsibility for each vote in each particular case. Is that so?Oh, my God! Let us just look at the composition of the Council of Justice, which proposes the appointment of judges to the Assembly of State. Most of them have judges. Judges actually appoint themselves through their proposed function in the Council of Justice, taking into account the fact that the National Assembly appoints judges only formally. It is true that judges can decide independently of each of the current authorities, but this independence must not mean their inviolability. That is why it is important to control the performance of their work. In our view, surveillance should include monitoring the timing of procedures and taking into account the low percentage of judgments falling at a higher level. For this reason, they should introduce a longer probationary period for judges before being appointed for a permanent term and put in place an effective system for their advancement, in order to advance only the best and most effective. For now, 96% of the judges are making progress. Judging by this, our judiciary should work well — without lags, criminal judgments, statutes of limitations, and established wills. In New Slovenia, we have proposed a number of amendments and additions to the laws in the field of justice that would help to remedy the current situation. The Law on Courts, which proposed the introduction of specialised branches for banking crime in the District Courts, ensures that actions within the investigation and trial procedures in banking crime cases will be carried out by the competent persons most qualified to do so. We tabled a proposal twice, and we're afraid it's not going to work. We have also proposed twice a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which provided for an increase in the minimum number of state prosecutors in the Special Prosecutor's Office from 10 to 20 and proposed the establishment of a branch for the prosecution of banking crime. We requested an authentic interpretation of Article 153, paragraph 4, and Article 154, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Procedure Act. At this point, I will not repeat how only Zoran Jankovic was allowed to do so in his case, but only in his case did the changed jurisprudence apply and the hidden investigation measures were destroyed after two years. For all of the above there is no doubt the responsibility for this first – the Minister of Justice. As the holder of one of the highest functions, he should know what it means to take responsibility. If he can't do it, how can he ask others to do it?Oh, my God! At a low level of political culture in our country, this means that public officials in the highest public functions are not responsible for their work, not subjectively, not objectively, not criminally, not materially. We do not know the derogation of public officials due to objective responsibility in Slovenia at all. They are not responsible for the mistakes and even for the illegal work found. There are also no mechanisms in law to prescribe the automatic consequences of such behaviour. And this fact, namely the lack of accountability, is, in our view, the main cause of the situation in our society. Why, Mr Klemenčič, did you not, during your term of office, arrange for a highly professional, ethical and legally responsible functioning of all the constitutional parts of the judiciary? This is essential for the effective functioning of justice. It is also enshrined in the coalition agreement and this is what citizens would expect in the first place from the role of justice minister. In Novi Slovenija we will be interpreting about the work and responsibility of the Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor to present the position of the Levica Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! When we have addressed the Minister Klemenčič through various recommendations in some way, it has been only a matter of time before that great action will take place so that the Slovenian Democratic Party will also prepare the right thing. And it all shows that she saved it for the big finals as an introduction to the campaign for the national elections. Until the election is yet six months old, but given the fact that the Minister has warmed up for another function that he may have been able to perform at the beginning of next year, it is clear that interpolation is only a 13-hour survival for his own pyar purposes, as we have been accustomed to. This does not mean that in Levica we are defending the Minister, far from that; nor does it mean that we agree with his policy. This is confirmed by the fact that, in his mandate, he has prepared few proposals that have convinced us and, consequently, those that could be supported at all. More than once, we have already mentioned what policy in the field of justice we are committed to in Levica. The basic postulate should be for the rule of law to be accessible to everyone. The feeling that there are two legal states, as we repeatedly repeat, one for the rich and the other for the poor, is unfortunately becoming more real than just a feeling. And that the principle that Slovenia is a legal and social state is increasingly changing into some empty promise, this feeling has become more and more people. Opinions are getting stronger as far as that is concerned. To make it more difficult for materially weaker to defend their rights than the rich, you can easily find out by daily reading of the daily newspaper, these cases are tones, if I say so. On the one hand, taxpayers hide property in tax havens and, to put it mildly, literally make a fool out of this country, from all other citizens and citizens; on the other hand, those on the side of society, for example, for the sake of EUR 124, they agree to sell their house for this debt and also to depose their entire family. On the one hand, we have seen situations where you can be granted citizenship, even though you have never set foot in the territory of Slovenia; on the other hand, we have situations where you have been living in Slovenia for two years while you are losing yourself in bureaucratic mills, looking for a job, learning Slovenian language, so you are very successfully involved in society, and yet the country wants to deport you. And in this case, it is also part of the responsibility of the minister, from whom – especially as a candidate for the Commissioner for Human Rights – would be expected to be the first to strike on the table, the first to say that this is unacceptable. But what did Minister Klemenčič do? He was quiet. It was also silent to adopt all the proposals to increase the repression proposed by the Minister of the Interior – when setting up a border wire, while sharpening the already harsh asylum legislation, allowing for excessive interference in privacy and the introduction of technical means for the mass control of the population. These are all the cases where the Minister was silent. On the other hand, he talked a lot about reforms, about systematic investigations of all inherited, oversupplyed and pillaging projects that were allowed. For all these projects, from TES 6 to the bank hole, a systematic investigation is expected. They're supposed to be looking for the culprits and the ones responsible for them. Instead of being responsible for the damage, we have received a law so bad that it has been in the drawer for more than two years and has been collected. On the other hand, he prepared a reform of the criminal procedure. One that has raised practically the entire profession and also the public on its feet; one that sought to reduce procedures to the detriment of the materially weaker; one that would bring the criminal procedure closer or turn it into an inquisitorial procedure. Despite numerous warnings and calls for the deletion of disputed provisions from the proposal and the adoption of those amendments, some were positive and more than necessary, he persisted stubbornly to the end. The result was that the law had fallen completely, although this should not be the case. There has also been a lot of talk about the urgently needed changes to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The Commission is practically not working. Rather than preventing corruption, he deals with himself and with internal divisiveness. And here, too, nothing has changed in this mandate. The situation is unsustainable, and most of the benefits come from those to whom the findings of such committees usually apply. So the question is whether such an unsustainable state is deliberately maintained or apparently fitting for someone. It is clear from everything that we do not cultivate any affinities in Levica until the Minister's work. We certainly expected more of him. But not in terms of drastic changes or reforms, but in terms of those changes that were necessary or still necessary. Solutions that would ensure the existence of only one legal state; solutions that would ensure equal treatment for all, which would ensure equal protection for all and also access to courts that would allow all to have equal opportunities to protect their rights. While we have also proposed some such solutions in Levica, such as solutions to prevent workers from harming bankruptcy procedures, solutions that would make it easier for the physically weak to access free legal aid. Solutions that would enable effective collective protection in cases where rights are infringed by the State; and solutions that would not allow a debt relief. None of these solutions received support in the National Assembly, nor from the Ministry. For example, in the proposed solutions to job prevention, we have received assurances from the Minister that he will take the proposals into account in the preparation of the relevant law. Now that we have actually seen this law, we find once again that the minister rather stood on the side of people than on the side of capital. Thus, the State will continue to protect creditors in the first place; the fate of the debtors, such as the threat of a loan, will leave the good will of humanitarian and non-governmental organisations. As it is said, Minister Klemenčič's policy has little to do with the policy that we are defending in the Levica. But interpellation so close to parliamentary elections and two months before the Minister's departure to another post will not bring any change. Most likely they are also aware of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The motives for interpolation are not concern for the rule of law, that is probably clear to everyone. As in all similar cases, this time it does not go without Patria, it does not go without Maslesha, and of course it does not go without John John Janša. Dear speakers, if you really care about the rule of law, if you like to shout out loudly that we have criminal justice, but not justice, if you really want to raise standards and more rule of law, then the first thing you can do is to make sure that your President participates in the main hearings he is invited to attend. Make sure he takes over the shipments, maybe help him explain where his money came from, maybe buy him a bigger mailbox. There's something you can do. If you are interested that the trust of citizens and citizens in the rule of law is at a high level, stop undermining it. Be an example of good practice and start to respect this rule of law for yourself. The motive for the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals is not concern for the rule of law. Their motive is always the same. On the one hand, rehabilitation of convicts, in particular one, and all others who face daily affairs, judicial proceedings, house investigations. It is clear that none of them ultimately wants confidence in the rule of law to be at an extremely high level. I believe it hurts, Comrade Gorenak, but you will listen to it to the end. Then they'd be just guilty of what they are. Today, at least they have the opportunity to refer to the catastrophic situation in the judiciary and to the catastrophic situation in the law enforcement authorities, not to blame for committing a crime, but only because it is some kind of deliberate political construct, because the judiciary is biased because it violates human rights and is similar. Therefore, they do not participate in judicial proceedings, they do not take responsibility, nor do they take over mail. Lustration, which is always advocated, is not necessary in court; if anything should be mirrored, these are old policies. And the Slovenian Democratic Party is probably one of the main ones. First, those individuals who have been avoiding judicial authority for 25 years with one and the same excuses. That's why this interpolation is a farce and we're not going to support it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The Minister is responsible for the state of justice. And what's the status? We've seen some statistics, but it's important how we look at them. Why are statistics like this? Because there's been a drop in the number of cases coming to court. Interesting. As a result of the decline, the resolution period has been extended and fewer cases have been resolved; at the same time, several cases have been dismissed in the higher courts. The trust and reputation of the judiciary have fallen. At that time, the judiciary changed some of the rules. The standard has been repealed, the criteria have been adopted, but interestingly enough; for the criteria adopted, no statistics are kept. We therefore wonder how we can assess the work of the judge if the statistics for the criteria adopted are not fully guided. What is the arbitral decision? The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated in recent times that the judgments of the higher courts and the Supreme Court are arbitrary, which is an alarm. The decision on the promotion and appointment of judges, as has been pointed out on several occasions by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, is then arbitrary. That's the first segment. Where, then, is the responsibility of the chairman given the promises? The one who runs the court is responsible for conflicts of interest, a competitive clause, a data leak, for example, how data has been leaking lately. For Agrokor, the data was previously in public, with ministers, as was the case. And what do the judges do next to their work? This has a profound effect on reputation. All of this suggests that foam populism is introduced instead of the doctrine of human rights. The Constitutional Court is increasingly burdened, pointing to errors; but the target is a critic. If I'm going to that other segment, I'm working with the Anti-Corruption Commission. It is unclear how and how the alleged money laundering was done. The essence of the action of the State authorities is in literacy and traceability. Apparently, that wasn't there. Of course, it is the work of the Commission to prevent corruption to pressure authorities to detect such distortions, what they have done, what time frame and why matters have not taken place. If I move on. The work of the Anti-Corruption Commission is preventive; during the Minister's term of office it has become repressive and therefore also dismissed cases to the Constitutional Court. And if I look at how you work like the one in the Anti-Corruption Commission, even if there's no regulation, or if you're looking for a rule not to reveal your assets. If you're the first in the country, you run a preventive commission, then, without it being written anywhere, you'll expose your assets and the property of others if the public demands it. And the last segment, the legislation, the drafting of laws, which has been mentioned several times. A whole bunch of laws have been passed. One is laws that are not enforceable, and the other is laws that are supposed to promise more rights, and this is not, of course, laws that run counter to human rights in the CAP. For the previous case, a law that is not enforceable, the Law of Justice. All of this has led to pennal populism, which is contrary to human rights and a completely different doctrine, and this is reflected in respect for and trust in the courts. We will vote in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in accordance with the Constitution and in our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. First, the representative of the Magi's proposer gets the floor. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I will exceptionally start in one of the debates, namely, a respected colleague from the United Left, how they, namely, how the leftists understand the rule of law, we can read in the forecasts yesterday, make sure that if the Minister respects the legal decision and legally finalised administrative procedure of the Ministry and implements it, they will intervene against the Minister of the Interior and expect the participation of their comrades from the SD. Phenomenal. This is said to be the only principle of the rule of law if Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a social and legal state, is respected, and the rule of law is that when legal and administrative decisions are implemented within a reasonable period of time, they will intervene. A quick round of applause. This is indeed a leftist understanding of the law and the rule of law, for those who are “our man”, as Mr Dolanc said, the law does not apply, for those who choose to do services, to do services, to do exceptions, to administrative procedures that are legally completed, not applicable, to turn the phone, to do everything for one comrade. They are, of course, counting on colleagues from the SD who are, by the way, a government party. The fact that the Lefties and SD, ZL and SD were now working hand in hand when it came to the illegal Sirca clearly shows that the SD is no less extreme than the United Left and vice versa, that of course the United Left is no different from the government SD. That's an old saying. According to local words, the Jew was in the government to legally protect the karst terrain, but he defended it unlawfully. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	Mag. Grimes, I don't know what this has to do with interpolation, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Look, a colleague from the United Left talked about this earlier, and if someone asks, I would like to do a man a favor to get what he deserves, so that he politely asks that all be subject to the same criteria at least in this room, Mr President. Now let's go see the minister. When the minister spoke, I think all of Slovenia was relieved, indeed. They said, look, the Justice Minister, if he's already cleared, he'll be at least a great gardener, because as many flowers as he's planted, that's all he's got, in just half an hour. Let's go to the biggest, amorphofalus gianteum is a Latin term for the great serpent after Slovenian, by the way, it's that stinking big flower. What did Mr. Klemenčič say? He expressly argued that because of the document submitted in violation of the protocol, I quote from memory, "there could have been no problem or damage or procedure to run in any other way". Do you know who put him in the best position? It was those who conducted the investigation at the time, because the main investigator was several times, the media had already written about it, that if that document were officially submitted by the KPC, it would be according to the protocol, in the correct form, in the original, as it was appropriate and as it should be in the legal state, then it would be the basis for the continuation of the procedure. This was highlighted several times. Similarly, the lack of completeness of information was also the fact that this document was not submitted under the official procedure and then just disappeared unknown to where, but also today we can only guess what it was, because we can only rely on the description of those directly involved, that this was precisely the reason for the failure to conclude the investigations at that time or at least one of the key reasons for it, also follows from the statements made by others directly involved in the investigation. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. That's why, you know, this protocol was just so that this situation wouldn't happen. And this protocol has been completely unnecessary – today we can only guess about actual interests – and things have been going on informally. The Minister continues to say that "it was an official path," I quote, as he said, and that "it was appropriate". Once again, this National Assembly, including the votes of the entire ruling coalition, confirmed the report and explicitly supported it with public findings. And one of the public findings is that the document was handed over on an informal basis and later, once again, that I will not read the whole again, that the conduct of the KPK was contrary to the existing agreement between the KPK, the MNZ and the Police of 1. 6. 2010 gross infringement of the officially designated operation of the official institutions. This has already been established by this Parliament on the basis of credible documents, based on the report, based on everything we have examined, based on statements, hearings, everything. This has been decided unanimously, ladies and gentlemen, today the minister here claims something completely contrary. So I read again what the law says, what corruption means by definition: "Corruption is any violation of the duty of officials and responsible persons in the public or private sector," and so on and so on. Why was it that way, what was expected, some political one, thought that more information would be obtained, that the gods had done something about it, I don't know. But the fact is, it did not work out as required by the protocol, so there was no formal procedure. It is the responsibility of Mr Minister, who has deceived the public gravely by saying even that all of this has been done, and is still deceiving the public today about this story. This violates the principle that his conduct must be consistent with integrity and must enhance the reputation of the function he performs, the reputation of the judiciary as a whole and also of the reputation of the Government as a whole. He here today justified and further strengthened our reasons for interpolation by his own conduct. The next one that's really worth mentioning is this one. He finished with the final point that with his very capable team, I quote, “work to the end”. Um, if today's interpolation is not voted out, how will it work until the end if the government proposes it as the European Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe? [[…]] Something doesn't work out here. Unless he realizes that he is not fit for this function, he already knows in advance that he has no chance there, and that's another one, and then such an explanation is understandable. I would like to point out that when it comes to finding the facts, for example in the banking system, they have put themselves in the position that I quote, that is, Mr. Staret's statement on the Commission when they addressed these matters: "Article 14, provision in this way defines and, for this reason, is also based on this logic, I will not say indiscretion that it is not the judgement of the court, but not the proper form or manner of exercise of authority, because, by prescribing something, it is presuppose that someone needs an investigation, as I have said, in essence, under this law of parliamentary investigation on investigators, witnesses and experts, it is not necessarily on the economic side and so on, and therefore Parliamentary investigation cannot in principle require data directly from any part of the legal person, but only those listed." Later, all of this was put in the right light by the Constitutional Court, which unequivocally confirmed that the investigator had the right to all the required materials, and further justified why such a principle must be respected in a consistent manner with constitutionality. On the basis of all this, it's probably clear to everyone that things don't hold up here. Even more obvious was this in the part where Mr Minister, who, by the way, proved to be an excellent gymnast with words, avoided those topics that did not correspond to him. The topic of the investigation into NLB and the conduct of the then KPK, which, by the way, only made it possible for him to go to a press conference on his own, since otherwise he would never have been familiar with it and no one would have known about it. So if there are consequences, he can only attribute them to himself. On the other hand, at the beginning and at the end of the introductory work, legal Islamistry was highlighted by destroying evidence of the suspicion of corruption, as officially stated, or by the content of the suspicion of sexual abuse in, commonly said, the case of the pharmacist in Ljubljana’s mayor Jankovic. There he cancelled the entire justice system, ladies and gentlemen. Until then, the practice, which had already been breached, did not respect the hands, but relied on the fact that this practice had already been violated. In short, complete chaos in the system without proper control, but the result was that some suspicion of a crime would never be able to be decided by a competent court, because justice in the broadest sense of the word of its work simply did not. Why didn't it work? We are aware of the case when someone was sentenced to three years in prison when issuing technical car certificates for the 200 or 300 euro reportedly accepted. Draconian. On the other hand, at the same time, such evidence, which is charged with several crimes, is being destroyed, at least there was a possibility that should have been judged by the court, and there was no possibility of such a possibility. At the same time, it is even more interesting that 16 million were forgiven for the same family. And then the fundamental question that is one of the foundations of interpretation today: Are we all equal before the law? Are the legal principles in this country respected? Are the fundamental constitutional principles that should be respected in democracy, that we are all equal before marriage, and that the law applies equally to everyone and everyone? Did the minister perform his task because he is legally responsible for the situation in the area covered? The answer is probably clear to everyone, it simply does not exist in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have citizens of the first order who can afford everything and who are allowed everything and forgiven, if not otherwise, but something in the judiciary always breaks down so that there is no judgment in court. But if something doesn't break there, in the final stage, because we know what it was like to be responsible for wild privatisation or acceptance, as it was once said — but what kind of judgment is written for a few months or a few years, all obsolete at that time, absolutely. This is the case if you are a citizen of the First Order, but if you are a citizen of the Second Order with little more than 100 euros in debt, you take the house, confiscate it, sell it at auction, close it for 200 euros for 3 years, pay such and otherwise draconian fines. This, of course, applies if you are not the right one if you are not close to the current ruling politician. Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with the rule of law anymore, and this is a fundamental problem in Slovenia, which is why the reputation of all institutions is declining, so trust in the institutions of the system is declining and therefore participation in the elections is falling. People simply don't believe in this system anymore, not in institutions, not in their voice making decisions. Certainly one of the worst opinions in the public is the opinion on the judicial system. You all know that, even the minister himself admitted that because these things don't work, they don't work. Equality, the right to a trial within a reasonable period, in the same way, under the same conditions, not when it comes to a trial itself, not when it comes to the conduct of judicial authorities in the broader sense of the word, not when it comes to the conduct of law enforcement authorities, is simply not. When it comes to the part under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, the Minister is responsible. The minister can't say, I inherited it, it's now the skeletons are falling, which, of course, he's been talking all the time for three and a half years. But watch out, three and a half years, this isn't the beginning, this is the end of the term! After this term of office, these things should be over, but they're not. They're kind of hotter than they've ever been. No matter what the minister says, now there are not as many comments from abroad as before, we have done something, something has moved. It's okay, just key movements, like they should be, but it's not. They're gone. All that was foretold as the deepest intervention — none of it happened. The Minister is responsible for this. The minister himself predicted what he would suggest. Things that would work really well certainly mean a positive shift for the whole of social life in Slovenia and, of course, especially for the justice system. We didn't see any of this coming, except for a little bit of that makeup on top, which is always enough. The only exception was an experiment that we still find difficult to understand today, with that unfortunate law that has now fallen into criminal proceedings, which was extremely undemocratic and opposed by the entire relevant public, opposed the profession, opposed the Supreme Court and so on, not to mention again. Yet, the minister kept pressing the matter to the end, so long that he experienced the departure of the marriage to the dump site of history. But now it was being prepared again, within 14 days it was a new version and it is already being offered through different channels to Parliament. That's just the way it is in practice. One is a big word, and one is an act, and these actions are not in harmony with the words, ladies and gentlemen. A man who assumes the role of justice minister should characterize the conformity of words with actions. It justifies justice and legally protects values. Politicians should always go for values, and we forget about that. One of the fundamental values should be, it is also enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution as a rule, as a constitutional right, equality before the law. Ladies and gentlemen, we have citizens of the first and second order citizens, and this is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. It would therefore be necessary today for the benefit of Slovenia to resolve and vote in favour of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Mrs. Koleša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	Nicely greeted! Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I am not a member of the Justice Committee, but I would like to say a word on this case of interpretation against Minister Klemenčič. In Roman law, they said we didn't count the arguments, but we weighed them. The more I weigh these arguments that we have received from the proposer, the less they weigh, even today when I listen to them, and when I listen to them, the more cynical I will say for a moment, and for whom even the ridiculous performances of the applicants may be. They talk about everything and everyone, but I think that the most said in the proposal for interpretation was about the so-called Farrokh case itself, but I think that everything related to this case could be concluded in two good sentences with regard to our minister. We will probably hear some more details about this, but I would say that our applicants are likely to be in a lot of pain, that is, what most Slovenian people and people say that he was a magician. Goran Klemenčič is far from the best president of the Commission to prevent corruption. For the first time, he let people know that there is a rule of law, even for the untouchable, or, as my Cossacks would say, “a mountain is the same and a mountain is the same”. And there is something else about the case, which is the content of the first point of the indictment — that is, the well-known case in the Farrokh case — which was also set up by the Commission of Inquiry and, of course, it would be much more important if an intervention were adopted or proposed at that time. It probably would not have been necessary at the time, because there would be no arguments for it, but only those whom they command are the right investigators for our proposal, because the other, what the others find, are “necessary” evidence, findings and so on. The motioners say that if I disagree a little, the Minister has failed to implement the full reform of justice in line with European values, which has recommended quite a few European institutions. I think that has already been said here, and I am interested in the fact that we are talking about a European dimension, but it is important to mention that the Minister, at the time of taking office, faced with the eight recommendations of the European Commission relating to justice, because then we should add that this Commission said that there are no more recommendations in 2016 and that this is an extremely great success of our judiciary and Minister Klemenčič. In addition, we wonder whether the applicants are lying to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Director-General of the Council of Europe's Directorate-General for Human Rights, who, in the 2016 report, pointed out exactly Slovenia, has helped to make the Council of Europe's report significantly more favourable because of the success of our justice in this area. Many figures on some of the judicial procedures have been mentioned, I have only exhausted 2, 3, which I consider to be the most important. In fact, if it took 400 days in 2014 to solve some fair cases, now only 277, this is a very great success for me, with the number of judges falling. What I have already mentioned, and I think it is necessary to mention more than once, is that the number of judgments of the European Court has significantly decreased. All of this, of course, since 2014. If you are saying and stressing such important values in the field of justice, which are of European importance, so that we must approach these European values, I do not know if you have ever heard of any European policy that does not receive due diligence and that exploits all the possibilities of delaying the judicial procedure in which it is involved. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, you who find all examples of good practice in the area under consideration may show me a document or a tweet where European policies of European manners or values take pictures of a court call in the meadow in front of your house and make a fair mockery of it from the courts of your country. If you have such a case of European values, it would be good to show it to the Slovenian people to imagine what values and what values the Minister of Justice should be guided to according to your measure. We all know very well why you're investing in interpolation. Indeed, you have persisted in an extremely disrespectful attitude towards Minister Klemenčič. You have filled the Slovenian political and unfortunately the media space with impatience, manipulation, populism at the time of the Minister's conviction. I don't know if Minister Klemenčič ever regretted that he paid a postgraduate study at Harvard with that ransom from a computer game he developed with his friend and finally landed in law. I also do not know whether he is sorry that he has joined the Cerara government and must now endure this unproductive debate in the National Assembly, that, of course, I am not talking about all the blows under the belt at all. However, I know that citizens and citizens of Slovenia have received a fighter with him, as a real sprinter himself, who always does work with passion, but indeed, sometimes possible with more heart than with his head. But this is the property of those who change the world, I think it's for the better, and the future will assess how great it is. Klemenice has changed our justices for the better. If the arguments weigh, we know what this assessment will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	The text is requested by the representative of the proposer. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	For the last few minutes, I must say that everyone who listened to this thought of those Churchill words: “The widest door is the widest open door of the emptyest closet.” If you are talking about Minister Klemenčič and his role at the KPK, which you say was the most positive, then please explain to me nicely, and to the Slovenian public why that most resounding work ended so infamously in the Constitutional Court. In the judicial branch, however, everything was abolished twice because Klemenčič produced it at the time, but it had negative political effects, yes, it did. It is said that he acted politically, if we translate it into Slovenian, he acted unlawfully, he violated human rights already there and then. But he likes painting, so, of course, he came when we started talking about money laundering, in front of the cameras, because he obviously wanted to put the pot on, or he can't explain it to himself. If you find another better explanation, please tell me. It's embarrassing that he forgot to check things out. And when we asked the police first, if they have these documents that they gave, they said, we have no idea what you're talking about, we have nothing, we asked KPK where the records of the surrender are, they said, we have no idea what you're talking about. We asked twice, we asked three times that there would be no misunderstanding, and then we invited Mr Klemenčič to talk. The way he performed there, I can read it to you. He confirmed this once again and finally we found that it was indeed a surrender, but not a document, not just for any application or anything like that, which made him boast that the paper they gave him was so changed, it was supposed to protect the informant that they had nothing to do with him, and finally, because he seemed irrelevant to them because he was so informally committed — this was done so. [[shows with gesture]] What everyone today recognises, including Mr Klemenčič, is that it was a custom in such cases, I do not know why they signed the protocol – then every trace was lost behind it, so it was not the basis for the continuation of the investigation. I am not saying that all the responsibility for failure is on him alone, but the fact is that he spoke one thing to the public, but something else turned out to be completely different. This is called deception, ladies and gentlemen, and this is in violation of what is rightly expected of the Justice Minister. The result is lost confidence in the minister, the government and the judicial institutions. This lost confidence is reflected also for all the other reasons that I have talked about, by lowering, if you want, participation in elections and all the other problems that we face today when it comes to the realization of democracy as such. That's the minister's responsibility. And if we include everything else, let's say that he even boasts that he didn't intervene there when it was an obvious violation of not only human rights, although this combination of not saying it was a violation of human rights, that's why he should react, but it was something else. One of the fundamental principles on which justice is based is the question of confidence in neutrality, credibility, independence, which is why it is so important to have the view of neutrality, which justice places as a fundamental principle also by its legal rules. One of the external aspects of this principle is that those who decide on a matter or who may decide or lead a decision-making body, such as a court, such as the Supreme Court, must not, in any statement, prejudge a decision on a case which is still open. After what we could read in the notarized testimony of two credible witnesses, Branko Maslesha did just that. He said the first defendant should be fucked. Excuse me, is this a new judicial term or what this is? Not at that, and not even after the Constitutional Court's judgment and finding that all the calvary that was going on, I quote from memory, “from the first to the last line of human rights violations”, he did not act. As one of the grounds for resolution – you will not believe – even the law makes it a matter of violating the question, if I quote, among the terms of the resolution: “If, by breaking the rules or otherwise, the principle of the independence of judges in the trial is reversed.” This one was obviously broken here. It was a decision-making body; it was a matter that was decided; it was a case for the predecessors of the case; it is said that the principle of the independence of judges was clearly violated. It was a loss of confidence in the neutrality of the court and the minister should act, but it is not, boasting that he is not! If nothing else, this should in itself be a cause for resolution. Madam, who had previously done such a vehemently, missed something when she said, "Find me one such case, madame, I think you will find one case that takes place in Europe for 10 years, takes one trial against a certain policy, revives every single time before each election, and ends up being closed before the decisive elections, and because it is still elected in this Parliament, including by your vote, despite my warnings, takes the mandate unlawfully." I have read to you the judgments of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, I have read to you the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights – what has been the result of all? In the circumstances known before the elections, it is not permissible to interfere with the elected mandate of any elected policy. Yet you have done so, knowingly violating human rights, ladies and gentlemen. Today you want to teach Slovenia and us about democracy. You have violated human rights, personally, despite warnings, you have been warned, so you knowingly, deliberately violated them. And we should all leave Parliament, headed by the President of the National Assembly, who even said he would take responsibility. Yes, of course, when it turns out that he's really responsible for human rights violations, that it was actually a violation, that what you did was illegal, illegal, and then responsibility disappears, gets poultry and flies unknown to another country. We are facing the same problem at the moment when you mention to the minister that the justice system is not working, let's say it is only an affair related to the Ljubljana mayor – I was even officially warned by the threat that if I do not use the right expression to suspect corruption, it will have no consequences, even though it is descriptive, as all media do to know what is going on in the background – in the case of a pharmacist, as it is commonly called, again – is there any responsibility, or has anyone heard anything? Then it was mine, in the Balkan way, that it was sometimes said, "My concern, go to another." Then, for once, it's the reason that they changed their minds, that they didn't control it, that they did something different, that they did it once, that the prosecutors did it, and then eventually they wanted to find the police guilty – sorry if the justice system doesn't work, the first objectively and subjectively for the things I counted, the minister is guilty. And that's the only reason I should go without everything else that's still here today. Here all these things, which are mentioned, you know that they hold, are proven, even by your vote are proven, you voted in favour of that violation of the official protocol, that it was informally, informally committed to this finding that it was a violation of the official operating arrangements of the official institutions. Today, when we should exercise responsibility, if anyone remembers 25 years ago, a little more, “I can’t hear well”. But he doesn't want to hear it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly the basis of the problem – that there is no responsibility. Where it is proven, you have already proved it by your own vote, and now you deny it. With the judgments of the Constitutional Court, it has been proved that you violated human rights. You're insulting today, some of you, not all of you. It is quite clear that some citizens are concerned with the application of extremely draconian legal standards, while others are overlooked. No one in Slovenia can deny this in their common sense anymore, and in this period, let us leave this to no longer know how long ago. We're not saying what happened 50 years ago, but in this period, we're talking now, and all of this is happening. The Minister is responsible for this because he has apparently not taken care of what he should have done in virtually the entire mandate. You know that. He dealt with all the things that brought him political peaks, at least as he estimated, he dealt with the beauty repairs, but he did not intervene in the system there and in such a way as to bring him closer to the real European standards and to the conduct and values to which we committed ourselves and which also stem from the Slovenian Constitution. It is therefore necessary to vote in favour of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The implementation of the proposal itself is demonstrated by the unique and true nature of today's meeting of the assembly, which is formally intended for interpretation of the Minister's work, but of course it can be seen primarily as a discreditation of a person at some time, and I hope to say that it is also very appropriate at a time when Minister Klemenčič is running and will present his candidacy, supported by the Government, also in the Council of Europe Assembly and the bodies of the Council of Europe. This is not the first attempt to discredit either the proposal by this assembly in an international environment or any other proposal, but this is the mode of operation to which we are already accustomed. More importantly, the facts tell their story. And the facts say that the time taken to resolve cases between 2012 and 2016 in the courts has been reduced, that the expected deadlines for the resolution of cases are shorter, that the number of pending cases is lower, that the number of pending cases is reduced objectively according to a survey carried out by the Supreme Court, including among the users of services, whether in the end they are convicted or not, and that the user experience to express it is improving. The objective fact is that the situation in Slovenian justice has improved significantly from the source, if, for example, 20 years ago. There are no more convictions in the European Court of Human Rights for an unreasonable trial; of course, there are still some individual cases that are particularly painful and critical, but also respond appropriately to them at the Ministry of Justice under the leadership of Minister Klemenčič. When the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights was reached for the sale of property or for the execution of the execution in the case of Vaskrsić, the Minister responded with an appropriate amendment to the law on the table, something more than he was likely to expect. In some other areas, the Minister would probably need constructive cooperation through proposals and support, more than an extremely large number of questions sent, which are fully legitimate and a means of political action. Of course, he did not have that, because it was previously the real purpose, at least it seems, of stopping someone who firmly decided to finish his work regardless of the pollen that would be thrown under his feet. And if there is anything obvious, the minister's observation may be that he is too determined in his ideas, that he may not take a step back for tactical reasons, that sometimes he is too emotional and eager to defend the things he believes in, but if that is obvious, then the reason for today's interpretation is so clear. Of course, before the elections, the proposer must show that the Government is not effective, that it has not done its job, that it has not fulfilled its promises, but that it has already adopted 26 laws in the field of justice, including the adoption of the new Law on Justice, one of the most demanding laws, that I do not now list all the substantive stories that the Ministry of Justice has led, in which case “sorry” will not be able to show. The Ministry of Justice and the Government has done a very good job in this mandate in the field of justice and, objectively, nothing else can be found, except that I hope that, during the time remaining until the end of the term of office, the Minister will be able to bring the law of criminal procedure without a rehabilitative article through the procedure in this assembly, and that we may also find agreement on the law on systematic investigations, there is no other option. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	Mr Dusan Radič has the floor. Get ready, mags. Bojana Muršič and Dr Jasna Murgel. Mr. Radich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you. Your Honor! I'd like to begin by congratulating the opposition on the tenth anniversary interpolation. They all had the same epilogue, and today's will certainly be the same as ever. The pain between gentlemen stems from the KPK report on the property situation of political party presidents. Since then, Mr. J. and Mr. K. have become non-grats to each other. If something like this had happened hundreds and years ago, we picture both gentlemen in the mists of the Ljubljana Barrier of the cold November morning, the second would have cried: “One guard!” and the fight would have begun. With a small reservation, only one fighter would attend the duel, and the other would be missing. This would send a message after work on horseback — unfortunately, there was no Twitter — that the fight would not take place because the decision of the Constitutional Court was pending. In 2015, the Supreme Court ruled that there were errors in the KPK report. Of course, the first reaction was the leader of the biggest opposition party. The excitement simply could not hide, of course, by compulsory grappling, that it took too long. Excuse me? The judges turn with the splash of the witch's wand into admiring justice. All of a sudden a confession to the state of law. This would, in their view, come into force if the judgment were to come in their favour. During my consideration of how to do the defending of the character and the work of Minister Goran Klemenčič, I thought of nothing else than SWOT analysis, to the left I write J, to the right K. Person J, commander of the hundredth century along the ways of Avno, person K finds that much too young for such feats, although today she has designed a red tie for the fashion supplement. Person J, convicted twice, guilty twice. Unheard of. Person K, no convictions. I can't even find the wrong parking ticket. All the desperate by the miracle I find a common ground. Person J, employed in Mikrohit and Mikro Adi, person K, with colleagues write a computer game with a significant name President and sold it successfully to Switzerland. Again, I will not praise the character and work of Mr Klemenčič, because the minister himself boasted in the beginning. I was most impressed by how many laws in the field of justice we had to change so that we could start believing in the rule of law again in Slovenia and that we could allow the bearded basketball player to throw trinkets and free targets at the Age. Mr K, I want a lot of peeled onions and good work. At the end of the day, in the dark, we will all be bored to discover that we have witnessed, like so many times, the release of dragons in the wind, or even better, the release of winds into the wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr President, I propose that you officially find that the first mentioned certain nebula concerning the Minister of Justice, honourable Member of the SMC, will not be blamed again by us in the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much, mag. Grimes. I think Mr Radič has been unique in his implementation. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and Mrs. Eva Irgl. Mag. Bojana Muršič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Just about a year ago, we had the government's interpretation of today, and perhaps we forgot, those of us who remember, we know that the main part of the debate was around the judiciary at the time and indisputably also around Minister Klemenčič. The indisputable fact is that our judiciary is not ideal, but on the basis of the findings that we actually have, it is significantly better than at the beginning of the mandate when I led the Justice Committee. At the time the assessments were poor, the results were not encouraging, as also evidenced by the data in the so-called comparative analysis of the functioning of the justice system in the European Union Justice Scoreboard. Whether this data was correct at the time or not, we all wondered whether all the data were taken into account, but if we look at the long term, we are looking at the analysis 2014, 2015, 2016, we find that this data has been more encouraging in recent years. Slovenia has been involved in this analysis for a number of years, and more than 30 indicators have been analysed. The analysis showed that Slovenia, in the Ministry of Klemenčič, has taken an important step in the fight against judicial backlogs and in reducing the time of hearing. Nevertheless, I believe that the proceedings are still taking too long, and I believe that further efforts will have to be made, that these proceedings in the courts will be reduced, that the courts will be effective and qualitative, and that resounding criminal cases will be resolved for the worst crimes, which point to criminal offences to the detriment of citizens and taxpayers' citizens. I am thinking mainly of the injustices of causing a bank hole, money laundering, corruption. I must say that, during the period of my administration of the Justice Committee, the work with Minister Klemenčič was right and good. The work, colleagues and colleagues will remember, the committees have taken many late nights, there have been long and hard discussions, and the proposals put forward have been an important step towards improving the judicial system in our country. We were able to accept the so-called mini reform of the judicial system, these were small steps, but good, as the results are clear today. With this mini reform, we have also achieved a redistribution of judges and a more even burden on the work of judges, but I think that steps have not been taken enough, changes in justice are still welcome, of course not only in justice, but also in other areas of the country's operation. Only critical views can save the country's functioning as a whole and as a society. Judges and prosecutors must be independent and their conduct must follow the Constitution and the law and protect the rights and equality of the parties in judicial proceedings. Any citizen can sometimes make a reckless decision and any decision that is so small, a reckless decision can lead him to a court and then a calvary that does not appear to be over. The proceedings, the costs of a lawyer, all but a few times exceed the ten times, the hundred times the value of an reckless decision, and the citizen can be subjected to severe mental distress and financial distress. In this place, judges should react quickly and resolve matters as soon as possible. We are constantly saying that we have a large caseload in the courts, so small matters could be resolved without undue delay, and matters of greater importance where the crimes are more serious should be dealt with with with with very carefully, precisely, professionally and effectively. If not all of these indications are taken into account, then things in the second-degree courts are falling. We have eccentric cases where individuals bypass the country, accumulate assets obtained in an illegal way, and nothing happens to them, and there is a loss of confidence in the rule of law by citizens and citizens. We really need a judiciary that will be able to judge and punish itself even until recently untouchable. I hope that all this legislation that follows this will do so. Only then will the judicial branch of power begin to gain confidence and respect. In the end, allow me, Minister, I believe that you will not be cleaning up your office this weekend and that you will continue to have to make some effort to change things in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	Dr Jasna Murgel has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues, all citizens! I'm going to read a little bit, I'm going to talk a little bit out of my head, I'm going to read a lot of things, because I think the slogans you repeat a thousand times, you can only throw out your head, the serious data and the things you base your debate on, I guess you can read something. But that's the way you do things, that when you don't have any arguments, then you come with someone like that, "Yeah, somebody reads it, and we're talking out of our heads, and that's why we're the one who's right." I don't know, okay, it's just your view of things. I can't speak and repeat my own slogans, such as for example, felonies, first-class, second-class citizens and so on, but the fact is that these things happen among people if you repeat them over and over again, and this is the SDS tool. I, as I say, have to have information and serious reasons for what I'm saying. The minister's confidence in justice is clearly low. The Minister has provided a great deal of information, and we have also listed a lot of information so far, saying that it is coming in the field of justice – but justice is not only a court, it is the one who condemned Mr J., but it is also the other stakeholders in the judiciary, but it is the pain, because the court is the one who has the last verdict and convicted someone, and it is still quite a few proceedings before these courts, that is the reason why we are always talking about the courts, the courts and the courts as the eternal culprit, who is the one who is supposed to be a second-rate citizen. The Minister said that he himself felt that the situation in justice as a whole was not yet good, but that it was improving. Today we have given a whole bunch of data, based not only on the findings of the Supreme Court and our data, but also on data from outside, that is, the European Commission, Justice Scoreboard. If I stress again, it is a good comparison for a longer period of time if we look at the average time taken to solve civil, economic, administrative and other matters at first stage. The treatment period was 154 days in 2010 and 82 days in 2015. This is almost a halvation of the previous time of rescue. These are the data we have. These are data obtained from a serious monitoring of cases in all areas that we get from serious comparisons, professional comparisons, not from individual cases that we draw out and use, as we need, as we think it appropriate to explain our case in order to defend our position. For example, the Supreme Court monitors daily, monthly and, of course, annual data for all courts, and not only for judges, but also for all those who work in court, for referees, for typists, for all those who work and help, for professional colleagues, and it is always possible to analyse, view and compare and make sure that the situation is actually catastrophic. Of course, that's not what the data says. But no, we have a situation where now that the situation is improving significantly – we said, is not ideal, no one is saying that – confidence in justice is significantly lower than when there was a lot of judicial backlog. You know why? Because even then – this is one of the factors that you will not say that I claimed to be the only one – the policy was not so brought to justice and to justice in particular. Many times, politicians, in particular those involved in judicial proceedings, make statements that undermine the reputation of the judiciary and also give only confidence in the judiciary. I've said it a number of times, and I'll say it again, it's probably in their interest, because then it'll look like justice is bad, and nothing works, and if it condemns them, then something is wrong with the court or with the justice itself, not with the one who's on trial. Instead of withdrawing from politics, when it comes to a legal indictment, no one forbids it, it happens many times that it persists in that process, insists on the situation, remains, and from the position of the policy then attacks the judiciary and points out certain cases which, of course, speak to it in favour. It will not go to point out the cases that are being solved, which are thousands, which are examples of good judicial practice, where everything has gone well, where the court has acted quickly and effectively, and I do not know what. No, he exposes those where he wants the public to understand that the court is acting wrong and that everything is wrong and that justice is ineffective. This discourse is already beyond the limits of democracy and permissibility. Yeah, we've talked about this a lot, we can comment on the judgments, the legal ones, there's no problem, we're also commenting here, we're commenting on everything else, but there are also some boundaries where politicians are acting against justice as such. Let's say you encourage and say yourself, I'm going to a regular convention where I'm going to attack the court. Then this case of mail service, you get a shipment from the court, and no, you can't go to the post office. You get a notice about the shipment, because it doesn't matter that your client can't buy you a bigger mailbox or whatever, you go, you get a notice, every citizen, every one of us goes to the post office: "Good day, I got a notice about the mail, or you can hand it over to me, please." And the case is closed. And Mr. Janez Janša takes pictures of the shipment that he actually received, throws it into a basket and takes pictures of it in a basket – and then he is a felon. This is one of the cases, but since we are all going around here today because this is SDS interpretation and SDS is so good to speak personally about certain matters, including Minister Klemenčič, it is also important to point out what picture he, who is also a cosigner of interpretation, wants to create about justice. Of course, then every citizen will ask himself why I should go take over the shipment and I'll take over the business. It can't be because the Law of Justice is very well written. At the end of the day, the gentleman also received a delivery after the delivery. The question is, What impression do we give about justice? And this interpellation is designed to create the impression that everything is wrong, that it is a crime, that the Minister has done nothing about it, and that there is no need to trust justice. This can be very dangerous if we want to have strong justice, all stakeholders in justice. I believe that a responsible policy must do – otherwise it can criticise on the basis of some well-founded data, some review of the state of affairs, on the basis of individual cases, but also do – anything not to mislead the public with regard to justice. Since it can happen once in different proceedings, it is not necessarily that we are all in criminal proceedings, I don't know, we haven't all dealt with a variety of matters, but even if we are just prosecutors in a fair trial, if we want to recover our claim, if we appear in any way before a court, we want to have an impartial court and also all the other stakeholders who will act effectively and in accordance with legal standards. This interpellation is an opportunity to draw attention to this very politicisation of the judiciary and to the fact that there is also a decline in the reputation of justice, but this is being done deliberately. I, who am not involved in judicial proceedings, have no interest in undermining the reputation of justice at all, I am also the Prosecutor's Office and future state attorneys and lawyers and anyone, because I simply do not have this need and I have no interest in it. Therefore, the Minister of Justice, given how many laws he has proposed and how many we have adopted and what he has done and what information on the state of affairs, cannot be responsible for the state of confidence in justice in general and in the judiciary if we speak in a narrower sense. Now we are going to the second observation that the Minister should not adopt regulations that would constitute a reform of the judiciary. Yes, because we always want – this is the mantra of politics again, "we will reform, we will reform". We want to move quickly again, at least it seems to me that you want to present this, because from the very beginning of the mandate, this is how it appears that we will now be making radical changes. Not that the laws we passed would not, but the changes that are thought-out and that do not interfere in the way that we have so far infringed in court law are important. For example, we have established basic district and district courts, and this has really caused a lot of judicial backlog. This was Not saying now, I don't know which government did it, nor does it matter, but such a hand-to-hand adoption of some reforms and changes without being thought through could be harmful. [[…]] Let's see, I'm just going to give a few things with substantial substantive emphasis, say what's essential, what the Minister of Justice has proposed and what we've accepted, but it's not about the number, it's about the quality, it's about the actual changes that the laws have brought, and it's going to be that have been adopted here in the National Assembly. It's a state's attorney's law. I must say that I had quite a few concerns, and the state's attorneys had them, but this is a law that will have a significant impact on the state having representatives, someone who will effectively represent it in civil matters. There are many things that have now been done in the Law on State Defence in an outdated way and which have had to be addressed. I believe that the State will have a very good representation on the basis of the Law on State Attorneys, which it has not so far. These are important figures, significant amounts in favour of the Republic of Slovenia, for which the State's defence is represented. It may have been time for me, and this current practice convinces me, to change the status of civil servants' officials to public servants, to perhaps overwind the functioning of this body and continue on some more modern foundations. The Law of Justice. I'm sorry, this change we've accepted is reform. That's reform. I understand, most of you haven't opened your mouth about the PPP, the Law of Justice. Yes, when it's criminal law, you talk to her, all of you long and fast, I understand that you're more familiar with it and that you're more familiar with it from the media, but there's more to the truth. Significantly more – these are lawsuits between individuals, legal persons, I do not know, businesses, companies, companies, between individuals – such as criminal cases. There is much more in the courts, and this procedure is one of the most numerous, if we consider that enforcement is also part of this, but it is subject to additional rules of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. We made root cuts here, but you didn't really care about it here. No, even my colleague Gorenak, who is not here right now, is not much, because you just didn't think this was spectacular enough because you don't have any lawsuits or anything, I don't know. I have no intention of offending anyone in any way, but this is one of the essential procedural laws — and what did we do with it when we adopted it? First of all, we have charged the judges - but I do not believe they are too excited about this, some - that they must adopt a programme of judicial proceedings. Then the change that seems very welcome to me, which is revolutionary, is that there is now a change in the field of audit that can only be admissible, because the Supreme Court will be less burdened by the cases that it has before it and it is now possible for a lower court to request the opinion of the Supreme Court in a complex case where a particular legal position is to be adopted, according to domestically, this is most repeated that there is uniform case law. This was the most painful thing we've had to do in a fair trial, because one of the higher courts decides it, one of them decides it's different. And then there comes a party with a decision of the Higher Court in Celje, which I have experienced several times: “Look why you have decided this way, but if the High Court in Celje decides this way.” Yes, see, he has the right to base his views on the rules, on the laws, and if he is convinced that his position is justified, he can do so. But in fact, the unanimity of judicial practice puts uncertainty in the legal order and this solution, which we have adopted in the Law on Justice, is very important. You mentioned, Comrade Dobovšek, who is familiar with the courts and teaches us what should be changed, but he is nowhere else when we consider individual changes, he said that there are very many cases that have been dismissed. Here again we need to see how, in what way, but the Law of Justice introduced one important change – the one we accepted and proposed by the Minister – because, earlier, if the Supreme Court had annulled the judgment, there was no remedy against it, the matter went back to the first stage and no one could complain and could not be judged whether this annulment was justified or not, but now the Supreme Court can decide on the appeal. I think that the higher court will think carefully before it is really without – there can now be more emphasis on the second stage of the hearing, in order to close the proceedings first, and this is also the result of the amendment of the Judicial Procedure Act – it will consider whether the matter will only consider whether it will not return to the first stage or whether it will be terminated or if it will be annulled. I think that there will be substantially fewer summary judgments, which may have been a little shorter, and as I say, there has been no remedy. The rules on electronic service to lawyers have also been amended, which are now unable to choose a single shipment that they have received as a new one, and leave the rest in the mailbox. But the service has also been very well regulated so far, and there have been no terrible heat problems in the courts, unless we have specific participants in the process where the problem is, then there is no need to adjust the law, since it already happens that the shipment is accepted. Amendment to the Law on Courts. A very important change is the possibility of assigning district judges to district courts. This can be more effective in deploying judges and managing the work of the courts, do not need – how do I explain? – you don’t have to send cases somewhere, I don’t know, from Maribor to Mursko Sobota, and then the customers go there have costs with lawyers and with their travel costs and their travel costs and I don’t know what. This is a very important solution that the courts are already serving and therefore are more effective. The obligation to adopt codes, ethics and integrity and so on. Amendment to the Judicial Service Act. A more objective and transparent procedure for selecting candidates for judicial election, increasing uniformity, predictability and transparency of the criteria for the selection and evaluation of judges, a new exclusional reason, cannot be applied to a judge by a person in criminal proceedings. I don't know why anyone didn't think of that before! I don't know why the minister didn't accept it. Because the judges of these laws do not write and until this law is enforced, the judge could also be the one in the criminal proceedings. “Beautiful”. So far, according to the law adopted by the previous parliaments and proposed by the previous ministers, there is this possibility which you have not ruled out and have not contributed to the exclusion until Minister Klemenčič's term of office. Amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. These have made a significant contribution to limiting enforcement to pay, limiting enforcement to those benefits that ensure the level of survival of those affected by money in the account, and by adopting this law, as proposed by Minister Klemenčič, we have also arranged that banks should not charge very high fees for the enforcement of enforcement decisions. This was not such a revolutionary change, but was followed by a revolutionary change because the next amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance was already approved in the Government and will be tabled in a short time. And this case of unfortunate real estate executions. They're really unhappy, not a lot of people want to decide in a procedure where an execution is done for 100 euros, but in the current legislation – but anyone can come to you on television, you can't come up with any legal expertise to talk – there's no way, but you can't interpret the law in this way to stop you from being executed on real estate if the amount is too small. There's no such thing! Such a decision will be annulled by a higher court and also by a supreme and constitutional decision, as it has done so thus far. I agree, however, that something must be done to give the judge the opportunity in these cases to do so, to have the means to postpone enforcement, to use an instrument that will allow this actual non-life execution not to be carried out immediately, to help the debtor if it is indeed social cases. However, we have different cases, and in these cases enforcement will not be stopped. We will see, we have this proposal to discuss what arrangements we will take, but this is it. I only mention the collective action law because we did not have this law, we did not have a collective action procedure, the minister proposed it, we were one of the few that we did not have, and thus we allowed those who have lower claims, but who are unable or unwilling to enforce them in this process. We got a new procedure that could be used by a lot of people. Finally, I refer to the Testing Act, which has eliminated the flaw in the implementation of alternative criminal sanctions. We have also been among the few we have not had, and by adopting this law we have received this. There are still a lot of laws that we have listed on the list, and I will not list them, nor can I list them from the head, because I am not a colleague of Gorenak. If I finish. You said that the Minister would run for the post of Ombudsman at the Council of Europe and how he now affords that, even though he knows, he still remains a minister. It really seems to me that you already know that he will be elected, that you're sure he's so good, and you're trying to stop it with this interpretation. That's my impression, of course you'll argue otherwise, but that's your thing, that's the look you give. I think the Minister has done a great deal for the justice system to improve, and I will therefore vote against the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! I will not talk about judicial delays, we have been talking about this for many years on the Committee on Justice, as well as on the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, in particular in the annual report of the Ombudsman, and I will not talk about the non-reform that is not within the judicial system, but should be because it is necessary because, Mr Minister, you have practically done nothing in this area. In the National Assembly you brought only some cosmetic corrections to the legislation, the comprehensive, the serious reforms you should be talking about, but unfortunately you were not able to do so. I personally assess what I have said on several occasions that you should never take up the post of Minister of Justice. Not because you were unable to establish reforms of the justice system, but because you do not have the necessary integrity. Nor will I talk about the fact that more than 70% of people today do not trust in the justice system, and we have already told all about this on the competent home committees. Nor will I talk about how in your position you have actually protected people who have gravely violated human rights, which you should warn them about. I'm talking about Mr. Maslesha as well as Mr. Fisher. Almost every day we warned you about these things, but you didn't train with your eye. But when there were other names in the game, you immediately said that they would fly heads, even though that was not your jurisdiction, Mr. Secretary. So I will not talk about the justice system itself, even though we both know that it has stung, that it is moving very slowly and that it would require urgent ventilation, but I will only talk about one thing that I think is your biggest problem and that we should never, therefore, ever become Minister of Justice and should never compete for a position with the Council of Europe, the Commissioner for Human Rights. This is, as it is said, your integrity, or rather, a lack of integrity, which is a prerequisite for an official to even occupy such a position. You know the definition of Article 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. You were the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, what you have done during this period, in particular the important project was to overthrow the government of Janez Janša and to bring down a famous procedure regarding the report on the property situation of officials, which, by the way, you did not make clear, as the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court told you, and that you acted unlawfully and unlawfully and violated human rights, Mr Minister. And today you are competing for the highest position in Europe that will stand or watch over human rights. If it's not perverted, I'll say it, then I really don't understand. You should know that by now. The definition of Article 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption states, inter alia, that integrity is the work of individuals who are expected not to act contrary to the law or legislation, not to act contrary to legally permissible objectives and not to act contrary to ethical codes. Mr. Minister, in all these cases, you have done exactly the opposite. You broke the laws, the laws, you violated the legally permissible goals, and you acted contrary to the ethical codex. So, you have a serious integrity problem. Me, too, when I talk to people in the field when I visit them, I walk them, they have a problem with that. It is problematic that you have established a system of first- and second-class citizens. It is precisely because you allow such fraud within the justice system and because you allow people who do not have the necessary integrity to sit in such situations, including you. I will say again, now you want to come to the position of European Commissioner for Human Rights. Do you know what's most interesting in this case? That it is the European Commissioner for Human Rights who is watching over human rights, who warns when human rights violations occur. This person, of course, must have professional competence, and here I must say, I must be right to you, I do not see such problems, but I see problems, again, in integrity. This, however, is essential and even more important than professional competences, much more importantly, the distinguished Minister. But you kind of reject it, so non-chalantly, because nothing can happen to you, because you're protected from all the institutions and because you've been placed in this position for the prize, because you've in such an interesting way knocked down someone who just happens to be, and I'm going to use what that word means, you hate. That is a fact, Mr. Minister, and this has been proven several times. That you acted unlawfully in this case, once again, the Constitutional Court also said. The Council of Europe for Human Rights, where you intend to go, at least if you succeed, has a written definition of what a person who wants to occupy this position or what a person must be like to be trusted by the people, the weak ones. Among other things, it says that such a person must be primarily moral authority, which you absolutely are not, Mr Klemenčič, and that he must be a person of high moral integrity. You don't have the same as we've seen. On 10 July, I asked you an oral question, where I asked you to explain to me what the integrity of a person in high public office or what should be done, the conduct of officials who are sitting or who want to occupy the highest ministerial and other positions in the country. Of course, you, Mr Minister, did not explicitly answer this question, you started talking about other people, pointing your finger at other people in this country, that is, of course, the simplest thing, but it is not very good for the Minister of Justice, because you must be very consistent and explicit here. That's what I asked you, I didn't get an answer, and today, Mr Minister, when we have all the time up there, I think that, one morning, there is so much time for interpretation, I hope you will answer the following questions, and I hope that you will not answer me at midnight, but that you will answer me as soon as I finish my discussion, because I really want or demand you to answer these questions, which has never been answered. However, I think it is right that you represent one of the highest positions in this country, and, as I will say again, you are pursuing an even higher position in the Council of Europe. I wonder if you can tell me whether a minister can become a person acting contrary to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption? This is the first question, your secretary can write it down to be accurate – yes, you write it down, so no problem, you can answer me. So, can a person like that become a minister? Let me warn you, you have repeatedly violated the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, including as President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and this means that you have violated your basic, fundamental law. Secondly, I wonder whether a minister can become a person who violates legislation, which also violates the highest legal act in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the Constitution, and thus human rights. You've done all this. Thirdly, I would like to know whether a minister can become a person who has proven to be misleading in the public, who has proven to be lying about the country of essential things, such as Farrokh, i.e. the laundering of billions of euros of money through the New Ljubljana Bank. Let me remind you, Mr Minister, what colleagues have already said several times in the beginning, you were, as you yourself said, informed by whistleblower that the actual money laundering was taking place, and then you said, it's surprising, and with such a scale you went to a press conference and said yourself that you had filed a criminal complaint. Now I must remind you that this is not the case and that you lied, said the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Stefanec, that you did not have one single and official mark on the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in order to do so, and secondly, the chairman of the National Investigation Office said that they had never received anything in the form of a document concerning the so-called money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank. And one more thing is interesting, Mr Minister, you have presented yourself in public as a fight against corruption, a great fight against corruption. It was on this subject that you somehow created in public the image of an honest man, the minister. But when this money laundering came out, and you know it's absolutely illegal, you said it wasn't your jurisdiction. That it's not your jurisdiction, that's why you didn't deal with it. How is that possible? Your jurisdiction is obviously only a small wealth of things, the bills for, I don't know, 20 euros for electricity 15 years ago, those were not just your priorities, but that was obviously your job. Say it straight and admit it. I would like to know whether a minister can become someone who does not want to become a mandate-holder to the Commission – I am a member of the Mandate-Election Commission in the previous term, in the current term – to explain the origin of his assets. You asked the officials, the presidents of the parties, especially one that I would not be criminal, of the others or not, but in particular one of the party presidents you requested all the data, all the accounts for 15 years ago, and you yourself, as some authority in this area, did not want to explain your assets to the Mandate-voluntary Commission! If you have nothing to hide, then it shouldn't be a problem, but you're hiding, Mr. Secretary, and that's why you don't have the necessary integrity, and that's the problem. That's a real problem, Mr. Secretary. I don't know how you don't see it. Probably because you're protected from everywhere again. So, you didn't want to explain the origin of your property, and you didn't want to give all the documentation to the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, not to mention that you are – this was a closed session, but I can say this as a single squint – with a meeting literally like some kind of mob you pushed to stop doing it, it also points to some level and also to the integrity of the individual. Will you do so if you are the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights when something does not suit you? Will you just throw all the documents on the floor and leave? That's not how you do it, not in the highest positions, but elsewhere, because it also shows your integrity. Mr Minister, can someone who can't explain why the house he's staying in is not entered into Gurs' records, but even though you were, of course, now again applies to you, twice is warned by the competent institution that you have to do so. And you didn't. All other citizens in this country could have done so, except for you, who were the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I wonder if a minister can become someone who does not report when it is necessary to prevent the corruption of his wife's business. I'm really interested in you answering that question. Can such a person become a minister? By the way, if we're talking about these family relationships, let me remind you that your wife is the representative of the Factor Bank that we have – I'm only saying this because all of the taxpayers have been rehabilitated, otherwise we wouldn't have mentioned it, but because – all the taxpayers have been rehabilitated – during that period for the representation of the Factor Bank, write more than EUR 800,000. And even though the supervisor, whose father you are, is now obviously beating you a little bit, but it's nice that you introduced this, here you can see a lot of things and it's transparent, I can't say no, but it also shows that your wife's lawyer's income has increased significantly since you're the Justice Minister. That's also an interesting thing. That's really interesting. I would like to know whether the Minister can become the person who is found to have received credit for the house under significantly more favourable conditions than he was then on the market, although other citizens could not obtain such a favourable loan. Mr Minister, can a minister become someone who, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior at that time, acts untransparently or in the event of the purchase of a building by the National Investigation Office, even in some way assists in corruption. Can such a person become a minister? As it has already been said, whether such a person with such a weight to reduce integrity can in the end actually not become a candidate – I think that when Europe finds out who it has before it, it will play its part, but even dare to run – for the post of Human Rights Commissioner at the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mrs Irena Kotnik. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister Klemenčič, co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister, you spoke in your defence about the values of the European Union, you talked about the Council of Europe, you talked about human rights, and in these areas I want to start or continue my debate, and in the second part I will also, of course, touch the bank holes. I'm sure you don't expect my debate to be as professional as the debate of my colleague, Dr. Sure Murgel. She's a judge, she's a doctor, and I'm a purely university-graduated physicist, and maybe because physics is just a science of nature, I'll be more of a natural, human side to present our expectations and also our findings. It is perfectly normal that opposition New Slovenia does not support this government, and it is perfectly normal and logical that we will vote in favour of leaving this position, Mr Minister. A member of the Council of Europe, I said that I would start with the Council of Europe, can become any European country, provided that it accepts the principle of rule of law and guarantees human rights and fundamental freedoms to anyone under its authority. One of the many successes of the Council of Europe was the adoption of the European Convention on Human Rights in 1950, which served as the basis for the establishment of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Convention on Human Rights, whose full name is the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, is an international treaty for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. On 31 May 1994, the National Assembly ratified this international treaty. We know the ratification laws, they have 4.5 articles there. Article 4 of the Law on the Ratification of this Convention, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights states: “The Ministry responsible for justice and the Ministry responsible for foreign affairs are responsible for the implementation of the Convention and its Protocols.” Mr Minister is probably disagreeing with what I have said, so he is leaving the hall, but I'm sure his ears will come up with what I want to say. The protocols that form part of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights are also very important, and I will focus only on the first, in Protocol No 1, I will not read the whole, I will read only the second article, which speaks of the right to education, quote: "No one shall be deprived of the right to education. In carrying out tasks relating to education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to provide such education and education to their children, in accordance with their religious and philosophical beliefs." Well, now we're here, but now we're on the sad third anniversary of the Constitutional Court decision. This coalition and government, full of professors, doctors of legal science and so on, to date, will be the third anniversary in a few days, unable, but perhaps I am not aiming so much at professionalism, I am aiming here at political will and ideological combat, in three years this legal mastodon in the Government and in the National Assembly has not been able to eliminate the unconstitutionality of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. That's amazing! That's amazing. By the way, I understand a little bit more now, why is it likely — because some person is being talked about by the Government, perhaps even for six hours, about how the problem could be solved or affected, and then there is simply no solution. So much for the efficiency or productivity of this government. If the Minister were here, and he's not, because he obviously doesn't care about this international treaty, he should probably, if not sooner than a year later, hit the table at the government on Gregorčičeva and say so, and now we're not going home until we're rehabilitated and we follow the Constitutional Court's decision. Now, for three years, there have been various excuses for us to avoid in this country so that you can whistle at the decision of the Constitutional Court and not change the law, but you will rather change the constitution. I don't deal much with these legal matters, but I really want to know if anyone has done any analysis, whether it is already in Europe or anywhere in the world, anywhere, or in the Member States of the Council of Europe, for example, that would be even better, this has already happened. As we have been since 29 June, a very important date, full of mouth, "rule of law, respect for international treaties, respect for decisions of international courts, European law, international law of the sea and so on, this must be respected". Don't joke, it's a double act! It's a duplicity, and I'm extremely disappointed. I'm extremely disappointed. Half an hour would be necessary. We have already had proposals by the opposition to remedy this non-constitutionality of Article 86 of the so-called ZOFVI, and all was rejected by the coalition. Three years, can you imagine? Half an hour's work, but in three years, the government can't do anything. And, as it is said, the Law on the Ratification of an International Treaty, which is called the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, is not implemented. The Ministry of Justice – once again, Article 4 of this Law makes it very clear – does not implement it. He's not doing it! It's amazing to know who can. Let's move on. The Commission of Inquiry, which is looking for the responsibility of bankers in this mandate, and also in the previous term, I was a member of the previous term, and I am now an alternate member. In the previous term, she was led by a mag. Marko Pogačnik and we have been invited to hear from the then President of the Commission to prevent the corruption of Mr Goran Klemenčič. I must say that his testimony was so vehement that I understood that in two or three months we would complete the commission's work and that we would simply get the names and surnames of these bankers who drilled the bank hole. And if we look, ladies and gentlemen, we're adding up a little bit of numbers just for the state bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, if you're counting all the recapitalisations with our money, then if you're counting the values of the bad claims that were transferred to the bad bank after the fantastic discount, then you get to the number 4 billion and a half, maybe more. However, 4 billion and a half is about half of this country's annual budget. That's how much we're costing this big system of state institutions. We are back in law, on 18 December 2013, the European Commission in document SA.33229 allows state aid of thousands of 558 million to the New Ljubljana Bank and throw in a billion-and-a-half, but of course the Commission has also put in a catalogue of commitments to Slovenia. This is a restructuring of the New Ljubljana Bank, a proposal prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, does not matter which Government of the Republic of Slovenia. By the end of 2017, therefore, we still have about a month and a half left, based on this restructuring plan of the New Ljubljana Bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka should be privatised at least 75%. Oh, no! Now the Minister of Finance, because I am very sorry, he is going to the Commissioner responsible for competitiveness – because this is about competitiveness. Some European banks are just waiting for the European Commission to give up Slovenia because it will rise, I don't know, maybe 100, maybe 50, maybe 200 banks, because this is not just a relationship between the European Commission and Slovenia. The Minister is walking, now Miro Cerar, President of the Government of Dr. Miro Cerar, who should have been talking from the beginning, if at all, because it is also a kind of contract, and on the European Commission they have given us to know – watch what is from the first class – that the regulations, the arrangements have to be respected. We said, "Oh, really? Unbelievable, but we'd get this a little bit Balkan." Please. In my understanding of this document, on 1 January 2018, the European Commission will be given a mandate to start selling the subsidiary of the New Ljubljana Bank, and some, the coalition, you stopped the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, then you will have to decide how you will recapitalise this bank next time. I would recommend that you at least go a little deeper and realize that the classic conventional banks have been unlocked. Unlock! Classic conventional banks, tents, big buildings, glass skyscrapers and so on, it's just a bunch of old iron now. You can have it on this box today. [[shows with gesture]] the entire bank transaction, in two minutes, you can open a bank account anywhere with a valid personal document. To return to the commission of inquiry in the previous term. Mr Klemenčič then said that they had reviewed more than 40 banking transactions that were handled, approved and concluded by NLB, d.d., and Nova KBM, d.d. during the period 2005 to 2011. In these cases, the Commission examined the approved loans, claims and purchases of claims, project transactions and leasings and the purchase and sale of shares. I recall that Mr Klemenčič said on the Commission at that time that these 40 transactions, which were taken under the magnifying glass, amounted to EUR 1.6 billion. It is also true that he invited us properly to come to the KPK and to look at those I don't know how many meters of files. Since his testimony on the parliamentary commission of inquiry, there has also been some kind of special expression, one special link invented by Mr Klemenčič, which is the grey eminence of the Slovenian banking system. He says he even has names. That's what he said on the board, and it says black on white in his assessment of the situation. This is just an assessment that KPK prepares every year, which you can also look at on the website. The assessment of the situation, Ljubljana 2013: «Bank recapitalisations represent a method by which the socialisation of the costs of private recreation has been carried out in banks which, in a broader sense, are owned by the people of the Republic of Slovenia.» Of course, the bank hole, normally, the cost of recapitalisation, of these 4 and a half billion euros for just one bank, was socialised. And what else did they put in this assessment? “The Commission considers that the expectation that the economic situation in the country could be improved without prior regulation of the situation in the Slovenian banking system is unfounded.” All I can do is sign it. But he is not here now because he hid to ask him how many times he said that or read it at the government meeting of Dr. Mir Cerar and his ministerial colleagues. I repeat, "the Commission considers that the expectation that the economic situation in the country could be improved without prior regulation of the situation in the Slovenian banking system is unfounded." And of course, foreign investors also read it and so on and so on. Mr Klemenčič's testimony on the parliamentary commission of inquiry is also well known when we asked him – and I must say that this interaction, this conversation was very interesting and the minister was very cooperative, and once again, I got the feeling that we were already holding these bankers by the door – he said himself, look, the boys sat on the market on vampires and they agreed. Well, it's probably about credit, isn't it? You know, one gentleman came to NLB who got 40 million in a few days' time, while another bank in foreign ownership, when they presented a business model, rejected him. “The Commission, on the basis of the data obtained by the analysis of the specific cases of banking transactions that were dealt with, approved and concluded by the representatives of banks with a majority stake or a dominant influence of the State, has detected a number of conducts” now, “beware now that there are signs of crimes against the economy.” There is no minister to ask him how many complaints he has written or how many KPK has written. The Commission also points out that the regulation of the situation in the Slovenian banking sector is crucial if we are to create conditions for sustainable economic growth, maintain the high level of prosperity of the people of the Republic of Slovenia, strengthen the level of confidence in the supervisory institutions of the country or state apparatus and enhance satisfaction with democracy as a desirable way of ruling. In fact, here we find the answer why there is so little confidence in politics, or not least why there is so little electoral participation. We know how to diagnose it, but from here on out, we're not leaving or leaving. Here I also wonder what are the civil responsibilities of a person who is in such an important function, who also finds that there was a non-transparent system of record-keeping of credit boards and administrations in the state-owned banks. Now the Minister has joined us, and I must commend him because on that parliamentary commission of inquiry he has told us all that I am reading here, and I will travel you if you have the time and will to read what was actually happening on the credit boards. “When checking the records of the credit boards and the records of the administration of one of the state-owned banks, it was found that the bank of the credit board records does not operate in a transparent manner. Thus, it cannot be understood from the minutes of the specific investment proposal under consideration how individual members of the credit committee voted. Neither are the points of debate relating to individual investment proposals recorded, so further identification of the responsibility of an individual credit committee member is very difficult or impossible – the decisions of individuals are lost or are covered by a joint decision of the credit committee as a college body.” The Commission is also very clear about the existence of informal power centres within sectors and policies within the bank and influential individuals outside the bank. And here is this important popular word link: “The Commission conducted several interviews in which the same names were repeatedly exposed.” The Commission therefore had names, and certainly Mr Minister knows them. Next: “It is for persons who represent the grey eminence of Slovenian banking and bear a considerable part of the responsibility for the situation in the Slovenian banking system.” I will be calm if I can get assurances that these names are actually already in some court proceedings. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know those names. Indeed, my expectations were great, despite the fact that, I repeat, New Slovenia does not support this government, but I personally expected because Mr Klemenčič, as the first man of the Commission to prevent corruption, saw and knows the names that have the characteristics of bankers, and now that he has come to the post of Minister of Justice, this is not a judicial branch of power, of course, but he has instruments where these findings could also be processed or better said, these people could be processed. Maybe they are. Maybe they are, but I don't know about that. But I do know that there is not a single name publicly known from these horrendous bank pools, who is to blame, who is responsible, and we know that we have a fantastic developmental backlog right because of that. 4.5 billion for the New Ljubljana Bank, we can say that's four of the other Divača-Koper. That's for comparison. In view of the fact that the current Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Interior, once the first man of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and there has seen and has clearly stated that it has been signs of systemic corruption, now three years of this mandate are good, but virtually nothing happens, here is my great disappointment over inefficiency and so on. Once again, Article 4 of the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms states that the implementation of the Conventions and its Protocols is the responsibility or responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this context, it is clear that Article 2 of the first Protocol, which refers to the right to education, is not being implemented. I conclude with my very great disappointment that this composition of the government-coalition simply cannot eliminate the unconstitutionality of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education within three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik and Mr Saša Tabaković. Here you go, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Interpellation against the Minister of Magi. Goran Klemenčič is directed against the minister who has asked for his mandate to amend the legislation of the State of Slovenia in order to make justice more effective and to speed up the prosecution of criminal offences, to reach the time limit of justice for those who have dug a bank hole who are guilty of money laundering, who are guilty of corruption and other serious crimes, and those who avoid court proceedings in order to propose medical certificates stating that they are “sick” that they do not raise judicial mail to avoid the occurrence of a prison sentence and so on. Interpellation is directed at the minister who hoped it would happen. More ministers before him didn't have the will, or they didn't have the guts to do it. If you allow me to list some of the most important laws that the Ministry, led by Goran Klemenčič, has proposed for adoption by the National Assembly, because these are very important laws that will help to eliminate these anomalies in our society and the crimes that have taken place in our country and are still taking place, let us bring them to justice. First of all, the Law on Courts, then the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code is also very important, the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, the Law on Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the Law on Financial Operations, the Procedures for Insolvency and Forced Cessation, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Succession, the Law on Certification of Instruments in International Traffic, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure and Other Important Laws, I will not list everyone. Several laws have also been adopted, which are also important for citizens. In this case, I would mention the Law on collective action, which has already been mentioned today, which makes progress in our legislative and judicial system in the sense that in one action several affected citizens who are suing, for example, one large company that violates laws and causes harm to citizens, or that there are also various conditions, such as in Drava, where the Austrian power plant, which has flushed the water, has caused terrible floods and great harm, and now these people are facing a single action. Then it is also important that the Law on Testing, which we have not had so far, is important because it reduces the number of prisoners in prison and allows citizens who decide to serve the sentence in a different way, and in this process the relevant services help this person to socialise and not return to the wrong path. The law on the criminal procedure of the KKP-N is also very important, but it did not pass the test at the re-examination in the National Assembly, because the State Council vetoed and the amendment of the New Slovenia did not result in adequate support for all members of the coalition. I was sure that the law would be adopted because I felt that the law was very important also because we had an outdated Criminal Procedure Act, because we are among the three countries of the European Union that we still have such a law and because this law would speed up judicial proceedings. If I were to say just one case, for example, the Court of Appeal, that is to say, the Second Instance Court, would no longer return the cases to the first stage of the retrial, but the Court of Appeal would have to decide on the matter on a substantive basis and the proceedings would have been closed. In short, other things are very important, but I wouldn't mention them, Mrs Murgel has already talked about them and I don't have time for that. Respected and respected, I repeat: all these legislative changes mean more effective functioning of justice and greater legal security for all citizens. However, with regard to the perception that we have large judicial backlogs in Slovenia and the criticism of the outstanding judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, the following would be said. At the beginning of the mandate, in 2014, Slovenia had 8 recommendations from the European Commission concerning justice. They did their best at the Ministry and in 2016 the European Commission no longer issued any recommendations, nor in 2017. In 2014 we had several cases that had not been resolved for 400 days, in 2017 we had only 277 days. The number of pending cases decreased by 16 cases per 100 population in 2014 and 9.3 per 100 population in 2017. Even criticism of the enforceability of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights has made progress, but I will not have enough time to let that go. The Minister also claims in the case of the so-called Iraniangate indictment that the cases are misleading and that the charge is incorrect, inaccurate, illegal and that the conduct of the KPK was not illegal, and thus the interpretation of this charge is unfounded. The Minister even stated that the attitude towards him by the SDS was the same as it was, also because, in matters of concern to the bank hole relating to investigations or closures carried out in 2012 in the Irangate case, skeletons, which also concern certain parties from the opposition, caused selective interpretation of some of them and the concealment of other facts. Therefore, in the matter of legal and factual circumstances, the KPC acted in an appropriate and professional manner within its competence. Respected and respected, it is true that not everything in Slovenian justice is as it should be, and this is also recognised by the Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič. However, it is necessary to say that constant criticism of bad work, of mistakes, of the title of our justice with injustice, is inappropriate and unworthy. The Minister has acted with him throughout his term of office, and, of course, all of his co-workers at the Ministry, acting or acting in a committed and successful manner with the aim of amending the legislation so that the courts will be more effective in order to remedy the shortcomings that have been detected and which have led to the inefficiency of the courts. However, with regard to the attitude towards the Minister himself, I do not believe that, as has already been said, he is inappropriate and that we do not all acknowledge in this National Assembly that he has worked successfully, that he has tried to achieve this judicial reform and that he therefore deserves more respect than he has received. Above all, I think that unjustified criticism against him is coming not only today but also at several other meetings in this national assembly and that they are often unjustifiable, and I think we should change our practice here. If I finish this slowly. Minister Goran Klemenčič is intertwined because he works well, he is intertwined because he has been successful in reforming the legislation. That's why, of course, I won't support this interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague, colleague and colleague! Today we have another interpolation in this mandate and let me say right at the beginning that I am against this interpolation. This is not only about the interpretation of Minister Goran Klemenčič, but also about all the interpretations that we have dealt with before in the National Assembly. It is my opinion that every interpretation wastes time which could be used much more optimally, not only by Members, but also by Ministry employees. I agree that the opposition points to the irregularities that not all things are in court as they should be and that there are still possible and necessary changes – but not in this way. Today's interpretation is not only about the Minister's defence, because he has already said all the answers to the obvious, but about the lack of understanding of the answers that the Applicant does not understand or does not want to understand. In all of this, I would like to do this interpretation, and in all others, it would be right to evaluate the errors we make to anyone else. Who of us has not already made any mistakes, and which government has made no mistakes? But it bothers me that we don't separate mistakes. That is, errors that have been made on purpose for certain political purposes and for their own benefit and errors that have resulted from decisions that have been made at some point in time or in certain circumstances in the belief that the solutions are correct. I would also evaluate the charges against the charges that are based on the search for solutions and the charges that are intended for personal, personal and political purposes. Those who follow today's interpolation will decide. I will not extend my debate in the direction of what has been done in the field of justice in these three years, because it is already or will be done by colleagues before or after me, but only by the CAP, because it has been said to the Minister that there has been no coordination. All those who have followed the procedures for the adoption of the CAP know exactly that this is not true, that we have also met very often on the committees. Unfortunately, this CAP has not been adopted in the National Assembly, despite the fact that we are aware of how important it would have been to improve the investigation and prosecution of banking activities in the area of banking and other economic crime. Everyone thinks about it on their own. I would end up saying that, as I said at the beginning, I don't support this interpretation for the reasons I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Interpellation consists mainly of two or more parts, one relates to NLB and the other relates mainly to the critical state of justice, including within the framework of fundamental values of human rights. Since something has already been said, it would have focused substantively on these two parts, the first is on the suspicion of money laundering in the NLB and the Minister's activities within the KPK. It seems to me that the facts that may have been lacking in today's debates need to be highlighted. Question. Did the KPK notify the police about the suspicion of money laundering at the time? Yes, it is. Has the receipt of this dossier been confirmed by the KPK and also confirmed by the competent criminal inspector? Yes, it is. On the basis of a notification or a document under its legal powers, has the KPC formally inquired, through the Anti-Money Laundering Office, of the possible findings of the competent authorities indicating the suspicion of the corruption of the management of the NLB in this matter? Yes, it is. Have the police had much more extensive documentation and data before receiving this document from the KPK, which justifies the existence of grounds for suspicion of money laundering? Yes, it is. But he's a magician. When Mr Goran Klemenčič, as Minister of Justice of the State Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office, was informed that the State Prosecutor's Office had never been informed of the matter by the Police, he proposed, at a meeting of the Government of June, an extension of the agenda by addressing this point? Yes, it is. And has the President of the Government supported his proposal that the competent ministries and authorities prepare a report on this matter? Yes, it is. Well? Of course I understand he's got magic. Klemenčič is in fact a very long history with the rightfulness of politics, and the question is whether it is right that some of the personal insults that are actually caused by this interpretation become the main cause of the abuse of the basic institution of parliamentary democracy, which is certainly the interpretation. I think that this is wrong and that not only colleagues but also the entire general public should be very sensitive to the ears, because it is obvious from the above facts that the KPK is under the then leadership of the Mag. Klemenčica did the right thing in view of the legal powers and obligations relating to the suspicion of money laundering. These aren't the facts I'd make up, but these are the things I've also counted that are evidenceable. Thus, the main observation of the applicants, which give the impression that the suspicion of criminal money laundering in the Irangate case remained unquestioned by the practice of mags. Klemenčič, in my opinion, very poorly justified. The PKK is not competent under law to investigate suspected offences and does not have any legal powers to do so. And if we want to properly address the responsibility of the Mags. Klemenčič, it is probably necessary to look more at this map of arguments and not just at those who respond to us in some way. As far as the judiciary is concerned, of course, I agree with the proposaler that confidence in the judicial system is important because it promotes or strengthens a sense of equality before the law and also strengthens some general sense of social justice. When we talk about whether the opinion of the public which it has to the judicial branch of power is important. But when we talk about the opinion of the Slovenian public, if we are talking about whether the judicial branch is independent or not, then of course we cannot base this opinion on some phone surveys, because the telephone survey is too structured to draw up any appropriate analysis. Of course, this does not mean that public opinion is not important. But when we talk about the public's opinion on the judiciary, it is even more important to point out that this opinion is also influenced by various statements by prominent officials or holders of political functions or government functions, which, in my opinion, often go beyond the eligibility limit in some of the flat-rate treatments of the work of the judges. Therefore, it is important to be very careful when we are talking about some indications that the European Court of Human Rights of Slovenia should be placed in second place among human rights violators among all European countries. Where does it say that? This is not what it says anywhere, since such an assessment has never been made by the European Court of Human Rights nor has it ever been made by the competent Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe! The fact is that, according to official statistics, on average, 95% of Slovenian complaints have been rejected or rejected before the European Court of Human Rights. Will we be happy when this percentage is 100%? Of course we will, but of course it can't be influenced by mags. Klementzel. Moreover, I personally believe that, in the field of the regulation and enforcement of institutional protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, a great step forward has been taken in this mandate, in my view, in the universal sense, just by the Law on the Ombudsman, which has actually filled a number of gaps in the protection of human rights in our country. By means of this law, the Ombudsman has acquired some extended powers that will fully fill the Paris Principles. This law also allows the Ombudsman to move from a state institution with status B to an institution with status A. In some international sense, this means very much. Moreover, this law also gives us a system for the establishment of child protection, which will work within the framework of the Ombudsman, allowing for the representation of children in out-of-court procedures and other matters in which the child is involved. You know, politics really likes to use human rights. Human rights policies are full of mouths, especially when those who use them very much want to expose their own self and put themselves on some kind of moral pedestal. In fact, I would have no objection to such political implementation if, in fact, in the field of the empowerment of institutions that protect human rights or that somehow represent the Ombudsman, in those 25 years since we have been independent, what has not moved. With this mandate or with the mandate of mags. In this respect, however, Klemenice has taken very big, important, necessary, demanding steps. That's why I'm not really going to support the interpolation of the mags. Klemenčič, because he has demonstrated by his work that he certainly deserves this ministerial function at this time, and I wish him all the best in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. We have already heard today that, in fact, Slovenia is not a normal country. That's right. Slovenia is not a normal country, because if it were, this interpretation would not be necessary today, because there would be no gentleman in the post of Minister of Justice who violated several laws that violated the Constitution and violated human rights. Such a minister is not simply settled by a normal state and is even less entrenched in an area that is supposed to ensure that laws are not violated, that the Constitution is not violated and that human rights are not violated. That we are not a normal country shows that the minister in question is still very clear on this situation, while, for example, the Minister in Desus had to resign because she did not want to violate the legislation. And, of course, she was neatly dressed. It also shows that we are an abnormal country, that today we are politically threatened by the Minister of the Interior, who acted in accordance with the decisions of the courts and acted in accordance with the law. But today it is politically threatened by a coalition, and it is also supported by ministers of this coalition. It is said that on the one hand, a minister who should not be at all on this post is being rescued here, and on the other hand, this coalition actually demolishes ministers operating under the law, even on the basis of court decisions. Normally, then, we can look at those different parameters, such as the perception of citizens towards an institution, such as the National Assembly, such as perception of the functioning of the courts. Don't be surprised at the subject! We're not surprised if you're involved. Very little has been said about what is actually the subject of interpolation, but let me start with the origin. Mr Klemenčič was President of the KPK Senate. Let me remind you of his sensational departure from this function, the media coverage, the citizens were disgusted, because there was a number of things in writing: in the area of combating banking crime or the bank hole, there is a lack of transparency, as it should be, the pattern seeks to solve this problem of Iceland, banking procedures should be completed within 12 months and so on. This, of course, was written by the KPK Senate when it made a sensational withdrawal, led by Mr Goran Klemenčič. Today, when he is a minister, tell me how many bank criminals are behind bars, how many of these proceedings end and end within 12 months and how it works transparently. This story is also interesting because at this retreat and then there was no record of surrender. So the new KPK didn't even know what those procedures were, where individual documents were, and so on. Well, now we're talking about the content of interpolation. I am not surprised today why such pre-transmission records do not exist – because the PKK has done certain things by violating the laws and the Constitution and helping to overthrow the government at a time when it has dealt with the most pressing problems of the country, the exit from the crisis, when it has helped us survive somehow, and it has actually had to accept difficult, difficult legislation to emerge from that difficult situation. At that time, of course, this KPC made its move because of its decision, resulting in a violation of the law and the Constitution. Mr Klemenčič, on the matter of Farrokh – we are talking not only about a billion laundered money from the NLB State Bank, but we are also talking about the financing of terrorism, respected – he made the following statement, and what he made, together with the report on the commission of inquiry, you confirmed unanimously in this National Assembly. He said that the document had been obtained by whistleblower and that this document had been duly recorded and that the head of the investigation of this area had also provided appropriate follow-up. He said: “It was committed in the manner of normal, legal and primary practice.” Now I am interested in the Minister, whether it is lawful that this document is not anywhere, whether it was an appropriate and customary practice for such an important document to change in some way, because individual data are crossed out, and whether you have acted in the way that the legislation or the documents you have adopted have commanded you. A normal, legal way that would be appropriate to practice should work on the basis of an agreement signed between the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and the KPK. This is an agreement on cooperation in the field of anti-corruption, which was already adopted in 2010, but this agreement was breached because the document was not submitted on the basis of that document. It is also necessary to know that Article 3 of this Agreement clearly defines the procedure for the reporting of a criminal offence by the PKK, namely: the Commission will waive cases where there are grounds for suspicion that an offence has been committed for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official duty, in accordance with the provisions of the CAP. That wasn't done. In that agreement, Article 8 of this Agreement also provides for a clear definition of the procedure for the communication channel. The point is that things are transmitted by electronic means of communication because of the easier and faster flow of information, and also later because of easier traceability. In short, such an important issue as a billion euro of money laundered for terrorism did not follow a procedure that was clear, defined and adopted on the basis of the Ministry, the KPK and also the Police. A simple question – why not? Why not, Minister? Then, of course, even at the press conference, you explained confidently how the crime was even reported and so on. None of this is true! This is now the basis for why the Minister should no longer be in office. And who was informed of the matter and participated as then a close associate of the minister? Mr. Stare, who is today Secretary of State. It's normal for the minister to tell us today how he'll stay with his associates until the end. Of course, you've worked with your hand in your hand before. Look, this is where the minister can't wash himself. Everything you want today, with some postal shipments to reverse the debate, is ridiculous. You can't put a billion euros under the carpet. Mr Klemenčič knew about this and did not comply with certain protocols. He didn't act. Today we have also heard about how many laws have been passed and you have listed individual laws — but within four years I will come to the National Assembly of some kind of law by the Ministry. But you let go of those key problems in this area. The CAP is on fire, and at this time we have lost wills, tell me how many responsible have already responded. Nothing. And great injustice has been done to citizens and citizens. You are also talking about taking a big step when it comes to preventing or ending human rights violations in this country. You are not yet capable of knowing the names of citizens and citizens who are the judges who have violated human rights in their proceedings! You can't do that either. Praise some progress in numbers. Look at the double criteria you have. At the beginning of the mandate of the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we proposed a large number of discussions, the recommendations on the topic of improving the situation in the judiciary were rejected, and you also used the arguments that these figures are incompatible with Europeans, that the parameters are different, that this is not comparable, and today the Minister shows these parameters and these figures show when we made progress. But we also need to know why we've made progress. Last but not least, Minister, it wasn't you that the government was in front of you when it signed an agreement between the court and the government to do something about justice and to reduce backlogs. So do not boast about the foreign solutions that were given at the time. Coalition individuals – here you see these double criteria – precisely those of the parties, the SD, which, at the time of one marriage, Minister, has given you an undignified debate about how you behave in a way that is inappropriate for the National Assembly, and that they even have the feeling that the matter will come so far that they will not even be able to support the bill, you have been so very rude in the National Assembly, of course you are being defended today. But they're defending you for other things. I believe that the President of the Justice Committee should not afford anything like this. Today, on the one hand, he cries out and asks how a Syrian migrant must be resolved, given that the Ministry acted in accordance with the law, it is also based on court decisions, and he defends you, who he spoke of a while ago about indemnity and something else. He also helped break your law of the CAP. So much for double standards. Of course, I will support the interpretation because the fact that the Minister for this money-laundering knew that he had not acted in accordance with the protocol and I believe that he knew this protocol. Today I also believe and explain in my own way why there were no pre-departure records when he resigned, and that his resignation from KPC was just another sensational farce when he spoke of banking crime and the fight against banking crime. Last but not least, Minister, under your ministry, the court rejected the requests of the commission dealing with banking crime, led by colleague Anja Logar, and prevented us from accessing this most important information. You found yourself in this file. That's what you found in this file. Farrokh's case is highly respected from the data dealt with by the Commission! This report was adopted unanimously. Of course, you can be protected here by the National Assembly with the majority, and not by interpolation, but by your guilt remains. When you do your part, I'll say the left side, then you always go to another function. Once from the post of Secretary of State to the KPK, when you do your duty there, how appropriate, you will come to the ministerial office and today, when the mandate ends, you will be nominated as Commissioner for Human Rights for the Council of Europe. I believe that every night you pray one of your fathers to take you up there just because your story of your political conduct, the minister, also your other actions show, once again that these interpretations should not be at all because you are not supposed to be in this place. Therefore, do not be surprised, colleagues and colleagues, why there is so little support for citizens and citizens. Because they can't understand that due to the unpaid bill they lose their property, but here we have a minister who violates the constitution and laws and we listen to everything else about how good the minister is and how much he's done. As long as such a situation remains in place in this country, as long as such double criteria are in force, as long as you continue to create second-class citizens, it will not be significantly different. The perception of citizens towards our work cannot be different because they are subject to a healthy farmer's mind, but here the satisfaction of elites who tell you what to do and what not to do. So, Minister, you haven't had my support since the beginning of this term, I've always said why. Not today either. Nothing's gonna change here. But the fact is that Farrokh's case is also on your hands. And, Your Honor, don't deal with mail today, deal with a billion laundered money through the State of the Republic of Slovenia for terrorism. And next time it rests, anywhere, remember what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! Today is quite a long time, for several hours we have been talking about interpretation and the responsibility of Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič. I'll stop at the time before I go into politics first. I must say that when Goran Klemenčič was still president of the KPK, I was very fond of listening, many times and often he spoke. He was interesting to me, and also to my colleagues, when I was talking somewhere outside, I think, as was said a little earlier, that we have to use some logic, some farming logic, and so on, that he uses this very well in his work. But I'm very surprised that somehow he's attacking everything else. Now it looks like he'd still be guilty of a bank hole. I think he's alerted to these things as he can, but he can't, as president. You know that's not how these things work. There's a lot of talk about this bank hole, as if it was caused by this government, and you know that it's a long time ago, and you don't know exactly when, it's actually started to happen. In fact, it is very inappropriate for some Members to treat the minister when for every minute, when he accidentally leaves this room, we tell him where he went. Look, he can't be here for 13 hours, he doesn't have time for a sandwich to eat, maybe go to the bathroom when it's absolutely necessary. So I would ask you not to mention such things and be fair to a colleague. I listened very well at the beginning of my colleague Jurša, when he also said certain things that did not seem so well done by the Minister, but mainly said: “Most things were done well.” That's what I remembered, and I think it's everywhere. Things that are done must be taken into account, which are important and which make decisions at certain times. With regard to restoring confidence in justice. Trust in justice has been falling for a long time, and it will be difficult to restore it overnight. I think there's some groundwork being laid and things are still going to get better. Of course if we're up for it. But if we do not accept it and believe that everything is wrong, of course nothing will be done. Look, we have an independent judiciary in Slovenia. Thank God that's true. If it wasn't, what would it be? You've told him many times that he's accelerated or taken a vote, maybe sometimes even in an inappropriate way, but that was proof that he doesn't care what happens in court, and I'll say it from this side. But then I will tell you how the Minister can influence the judiciary in a different way – with appropriate legislation, by order of procedure. I think he's done these things well, and he can show a lot when this government's mandate is over. There was a lot of talk about the rule of law, all the interpretations when I was present. Very well, colleague Murgel said earlier: “I have citizens of Order 1 who receive a notice by post and go to the post office and pick up the mail. Citizens number 2 receive the package in their hands and do not accept it.” So it's totally holding. This is how we can imagine the rule of law. Before that, I was also disturbed by the debate of my colleague Horvath, who referred to section 86 of the Financing Act. For a moment, I was actually wondering if today's the interview for the Minister of Education. There's been a lot of rumors here that we're mixing pears and apples. But apparently we're still mixing them. I would, in view of all this situation, which is present, which I have been following all these three years or now for the fourth year, when we're actually touching things that we don't really care about, but if anyone tells us anything, we don't like it. I'd kind of like to say a comparison, let's say, if Christ were to settle again at this time, I would, frankly, condemn him again and cross him again. Because he said things that don't suit people, and they should be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Prepare Mr Simon Zajc and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have before me what is at the heart of today's debate is the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič. The essence of our summaries exists in two points. It is a matter of NLB, it is the biggest affair of all time in the field of the Republic of Slovenia, it is a suspicion of crime services, money laundering more than billions of euros, at first we talked about even billions of dollars, later it was found that this amount was even higher, it goes to a billion euros of money. We can tell Mr Goran Klemenčič on more than eight pages, in particular, that we have waived the obligation to do so. He was at the head of the KPK at that time, saying what you can sum up by magnetograms, and those facts that the current KPK president also said he did not scrutinise on this matter. If someone is not upset about one billion money laundering, a respected colleague and a colleague, on the suspicion of this service, I must ask myself whether this person has sufficient knowledge, integrity or any other purpose. The second issue that you haven't discussed today, none of you, I ask myself, after my duty, when the data came out to the public, that the NLB gave up part of its bank commission. If we are talking about the first part that the crime of money laundering is suspected and that all the foundations of money laundering may not be taken in this great affair, despite the fact that it was the financing of Islamic terrorism, what my colleague Grims said, we need to ask ourselves why our duty was to do it because it was a suspicion of corruption. What is the essence of the suspicion of corruption — when you find that over a billion money flows through an Iranian bank through NLB to 9,000 accounts abroad, do you find it suspicious that this bank does not require a bank commission or that this commission is catastrophically small at such a risk? All experts involved in money laundering in the world, or at least part of those who have given any expert opinion, have said that commissions for such a system of suspected crime of money laundering are at least 30% and even more for risky countries. So we can talk about a commission of between 300 and 500 million. Again, I suspect a criminal service. Mr. Klemenčič with the former Senate, I will not repeat as you know, step back, stand in front of the camera with his typical face and say: “We have stumbled into the wall, we can’t do anything.” At the time, they had documents on the table about Teš 6. Do you remember how many of these things Mr. Klemenčič might have put in public? Who put in public, as far as the last affair about the suspected crime of money laundering is concerned, is it about corruption in health? Is it possible that Mr Klemenčič, with his team, has said anything about the health system, perhaps about the ventricles, hips, other medical devices, not only what we discovered in the narrow segment of the health system, what colleague Godceva discovered? He put everything on a plate of SDS, respected colleagues and colleagues! We have someone who is part of the system and, as Dr. Zupančič said, a former judge at the ECHR, this is the man I met, about whom I had a good opinion, and this is now a completely different person. I once listened to Mr Klemenčič in a lecture about genocide, polytocide, and I thought, I could say, a very correct and solid lecturer. But this man, someone who knows him better, a great expert, one of the greatest experts we have and have, Mr Zupančič, says he is a completely different person. This is a completely different person. One thing he says, and the other, what his actions are. However, it is his most famous act, by which his political and also, I will not say, along with his wife the economic, successful business path runs, but it is part of this system. Even under his leadership, justice has not undergone major changes; it has undergone cosmetic changes. The fact that we still have judges in the judiciary, for whom we have found in his mandate that they were part of the former Judgment, that they were involved in catastrophic crimes, that these people are not yet being processed or removed from the system today, does not concern him. I'm talking about the Maribor case, about the judge who even initiated the special methods and means for Mr. Kangler, the former mayor, then we have a case that the judge in Maribor Dr. Podrek said that Kangler should be sentenced to 7 months and that we have to convict him because there is a great danger of going back to politics. Do you think these things are normal in some judicial system? I welcome the Law of Justice. I believe he needed it to be comprehensive, to be complex. Whatever thing someone does to her, I welcome her. But, excuse me, if we start with Mr Klemenčič's career: the Secretary of State at Kresal, we know the affairs, I don't need to explain, so rent 136 million, he was informed and even an auditor in this process. What did he do? Did he publish, publicize, press charges against Kresal and the company? Nothing. He didn't do anything. As a weasel, he escaped from this affair. Let's move on. The KPC report on Mr Janša's case. Has Mr. Janša had any conflict with him since before? He didn't have it. We've never seen this conflict. What happened? It is not only a problem that his actions involved non-compliance with the Constitution, as the Supreme Court told him when he abolished the KPC report, that it was a lack of respect for the equal protection of rights in some proceedings. These are typical things that students of law need to know in the first or second year of their undergraduate studies. This is something that is the basis for learning equal protection of rights in Article 22 of the Constitution. Constitutional law is customary for all students in all law schools in the course in the 1st year, and in the 1st year, this exam. So it's not some special matter or some very complex law you're breaking. What happened next? His great friend, a member of the Senate, Mr. Praprotnik goes to NLB. What does he do there for a higher salary after he resigns? What's he talking about? He says he'll be the director of business compliance. What's going on? Does Mr Praprotnik, precisely this Director for Business Compliance, determine the suspicions of the crime of money laundering, the biggest affair in the history of the Slovenian state? No, it's quiet. He enjoys his employee, a super salary that is much higher than any Member or Minister's or even a President's salary in net amount and so on. So the team is always part of the problem. Let's move on. Let us recall that Mr Klemenčič, himself Vice-President of the Commission on Elections in the previous term, and also in this case Mr Klemenčič has not yet said what is the matter with his estate. Where'd he get the money? Anyone who looks at his wife's computer program of doing business with state-owned companies, I hope you see what it means to be one in politics, and the other one with a private company runs by state-owned companies. Do you find this acceptable for one minister? This combination, it's a mortal combination. It's not a problem if your wife's a lawyer. Great. If my wife deals with natural persons on the market, I don't have any problems. But business with state-owned companies, with municipalities during Minister Klemenčič's time, you can see that diagrams literally force you to the sky. So this response is amazing on the program itself. If we move on. At the time of the KPK that he broke eight laws, I don't have to explain it at all. I think it's either one of your colleagues or maybe my colleague Pojbič will say something about it. Why Mr Klemenčič is part of the problem, part of a deep state that has taken on Slovenia, which holds Slovenia in check. So all these people are in the most important positions, but they will never announce one of these deep states. He said they ran into a wall. So we hit a wall and back off. When he talks about how deep we are, he comes right into the government, into the most famous government that has really done nothing. The government of Mira Cerar will historically enter as a government that was a non-reform government, a government that held the status quo, a government that was in a boat driven by the wind, and because the wind is excellent at this time, because Slovenia is strongly attached to Germany, especially Italy, and because it is extremely high growth and because Germany also has problems with professional labour, small entrepreneurs or Slovenian companies are good, we have exports quite large and the indicators are good. The government will not say that it has committed 4 billion in this mandate. This is why they cannot retire because there are no reforms because there are no young people, because we have not actively employed people in high value-added jobs, because we still have a school system, we can say, from the time of Mary Teresa, who has not adapted to the new changes of the fourth industrial revolution, but will not do anything and we will die on meals. In the next crisis, we will remain with 90% of GDP in debt and the gains on Slovenian bonds will be catastrophic. What happens when he writes an ominous report in which he disregarded or violated Article 22 of the Constitution, which I spoke about earlier. There have been irreparable consequences, the government has fallen, there is a political crisis, there is a change, and the President of the Government becomes an inexperienced textile fabricator, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, who says she will save the country with her knowledge. We do not go to the European Stability Mechanism and from funds that we do not even know who stands for, we owe five billion by 3% to 4% more than we actually would in the European Stability Mechanism. This left policy does not want a European stable mechanism, because we should adopt the reforms we have to take anyway, which is why we have a structural deficit today. And Alenka Bratušek, which is a result of the KPK and Goran Klemenčič, does billions of damage, i.e. more than one billion only due to the difference in interest rates in 10-year bonds. Let's move on. It's already a shame for a colleague of Bratushkova. No one has ever talked about this in this House. And this irreparable consequence again of Goran Klemenčič brings credit to the post of Minister of Justice, again with the promises that colleagues Grims and Gorenak have read today to make radical changes. Nothing happened. On the Mandate-Election Commission, members, colleague Horvat, you know that for at least two or three candidates for judges we have found incredible violations. And these people came before the Mandate Election Commission to become judges, among other attorneys from Teš 6, precisely the Teš 6 which was part of what made Goran Klemenčič give up as president of the KPK, saying that he's in front of the wall and that he can't work. Then, at the time he is the Minister of Justice, this lawyer proposes this government through the Judicial Council for a Judge in the Court of Justice in the Republic of Slovenia. The one that was in all the contracts with Alstom. That's how the parachutists run. That's how we encourage each other. The only problem with this para-state is the party that detects it. And the problem is Mr. Janša, the problem is we, we are marginalized, some village special. We're not behind an affair. I wasn't in on any of this. For my assets, I know exactly where I got it, and how much I had to work for it. Mr Klemenčič even raised his voice at the time of the Mandate-Villain Commission when we should talk about his property. That's why he doesn't have the integrity to be a minister and talk about some honesty. And now we come up with things that aren't out of the ordinary. The defence had to be negotiated when the president of the KPK, colleagues and colleagues – but you know when the president issued a call for the graphic image of the KPK? One of the companies that signed up and had to get paid said he wouldn't pay her. He said he wouldn't pay her. The case goes to trial. Of course, the KPK cannot be sued, but the Slovenian Attorney General's Office is empowered to do so. And the D.A. finds out they're gonna lose the lawsuit after a certain period of time. The value was between EUR 5 and EUR 8 000. What's going on? KPK's Office in the new system says to make a quick deal, things will go up in the sky because they're gonna lose the lawsuit. And the new president will sign the settlement. The settlement, which was in a certain high amount, goes to the Government because the amount to be settled must be agreed upon by the Government. And now comes back and the country Republic of Slovenia pays this company this amount Mr Klemenčič gets the amount, KPK in the new composition asks it to return this money to the budget for the damage caused by its unlawful act. [[..]] Have you talked about this before? Do you know this is it? Do you know this matter? You don't know. Whenever this man is guilty of nothing. This man is innocent. In his entire career, he is always in a society where crimes occur: whether it is corruption, whether it is his property or he does harm, then we have had billions of damages due to the interest we have had to pay, or he violates the laws, or he violates article 22 of the Constitution, or he is even talking about certain people, that there will be “heads flying”. Just for certain people, not everyone. But when it comes to people from Slovenia's independence, they have to fly their heads to process these people and go to jail. This is therefore the opus of the works and actions of Mr Goran Klemenčič in his political career. And as he said today, as I said in the beginning, one is Goran Klemenčič, the one who happens at the hearing, one is Goran Klemenčič as a lecturer at the Faculty of Law, and the other is Goran Klemenčič as a personality of actions and procedures in his work. It's never a man's fault. The SDS is some ugly marginalized party that always wants this country bad. But because of this work, the Slovenian public has been able to find out about all the crimes, the pigs that are happening, and what people live for, we can say, a man's unworthy life, right from where we come from with his colleague Pojbič, 200 euro farm pensions, people living in a village 80 years old, and they still have something to do in the countryside to survive. I'm not going to explain myself as a politician right now, but I'm going back to the point. Just because of people like Goran Klemenčič, this state still has a scepter in its hands and also continues to pursue, not least, a policy. The politics of new faces, in normal democratic countries, we hardly know it. Before every election, a party that isn't, and that's when it comes to it, that's something abnormal. It's something crazy, respectable colleagues, just because of this round! And all we want to do with our interpolations is cut off these circulars on certain sections. Whether it's a health system, an interpeel to the Minister, whether it's justice, or other systems and subsystems of our country. If systems don't work, there's no trust in the rule of law. If there is no trust in the rule of law, even foreigners do not invest in this country and we need to adopt special laws, literally give as much money as they would almost invest, just because it is an insurmountable environment. As a result, young people are going abroad and, as a result, this country will eventually remain a country of poor people, elderly people, with catastrophically poor lives in the future. This is how democracy works, so does this part of the opposition, which is taking the role of the opposition seriously, which is why this country can finally act, i.e. by the principle of brakes and balances. And that is the essence of our interpretations, that this will be one quality environment and I will conclude here. I believe whatever this conclusion is, the vote will be, however you decide, but, dear fellows, colleagues, shape the fate of the Slovenian people with your yes or no. You're gonna have to say no yourself, and now it's over, and I think we're done. The latest actions that are taking place in Parliament also indicate that you have indeed gone beyond all borders, those who decide at this time. So I'm asking you to cooperate with us and to help people like him. Goran Klemenčič, you make it clear that his path in politics will have to end once and perhaps in another area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all those in the hall, not many of us. Let me begin by saying that I am surprised, given the great and strong mood of the SDS against Minister Klemenčič, that they have come to the interpretation of the Minister only now, just before the present, just before the end of their term of office. Since we all know the minister's been on their fly from the very beginning, only the 10th interpolation has been filed against him. Now I don't know why this has happened, whether your deadline has shaken or you've been disturbed by other possibilities for interpolation that you've tried to overthrow the government, or what really happened. I think I know what happened, why there's only 10 interpretations against Minister Klemenčič. Until now, if I look at today's interpolation, you still haven't had any valid arguments to write this interpolation at all. Today, when the time is running out, you put what we have on the table. You're reading two things to him. One relates to the time when Mr Klemenčič was still President of the KPK. The second refers to or is obvious to him that he has not drafted legislation to reform Slovenian justice in the direction of European principles, values, standards. Although we know that Mr Klemenčič has just prepared, I think that, beyond the 20 laws we have adopted here and over 40 other regulations. And he's doing exactly what you tell him he's not doing. With these laws, it is the Slovenian judiciary that directs the European Union and its values and standards. Is everything as it should be in justice? Of course not. We can all agree on this, but the system, such as justice, is changing slowly, probably slower than many of us would like to, but it is good that these changes are so much more thoughtful. And what is what we want to be different, and from now on, precisely because of Mr Klemenčič's involvement, is different and will be different. People, all of us were very disturbed by the fact that when someone was convicted, the guilt proved to him that, just before they had to pay for their sins, they had to go to prison, run away, hide, and that was as long as it took. Then she appeared again among the people, in mockery at all those who respect laws that respect the rule of law and who are responsible for their actions. Well, this is precisely because of the actions of Minister Klemenčič and because then we are all together in the National Assembly, the ones we have confirmed from now on. Of course, people can still do that after being convicted, hiding, they can still do that, but the punishment awaits them. When they come back, the punishment awaits them, the limitation period does not run at this time. The other thing that got us nervous and caused people to lose their faith in the rule of law, in justice, is that someone who is convicted then postpones their sentences with various medical excuses, even though they can be seen to be healthy. This is no longer possible or is very difficult. Again, precisely because of what Mr Klemenčič has brought to this Parliament and what some have confirmed. What do people expect if we want to be like the European Union if we want to have a legal system in line with European Union standards, values and standards? If human rights are violated, when the European Court of Human Rights also finds that these decisions are enforced. And since 2013 onwards, since Mr Klemenčič is Minister, this has been happening rapidly. When he came in, I think, 309 unexecuted judgments. Today, there are 260 fewer. There's still 49 of them. Still too much, but the difference is significant. Such achievements and activities are still numerous. We have introduced many of them today, so I would not repeat them myself. But I'd like to conclude with one interesting thing that seems to me to describe well what we're doing here today. I find it interesting that no matter what the situation is, we have an increasingly poor view of our situation in the country. Despite the fact that our economic growth is growing, that we have more employment, that Slovenia is growing on all the world scales, people still think that everything is wrong and everything is going worse. How is that possible? It's the same in justice. Although time is running out for a verdict, although the judiciary is doing better, people feel that it is getting worse. Why is that? When did this really happen, and what confirms what I said earlier? When the judiciary acted more quickly and when some policies were also seized by the courts, the opinion turned. Why does that happen? Because it is the people in this house that are responsible for this, that we politicians, because even though things are going better, politicians are trying to create a climate of dissatisfaction because of their interests. And for this reason, people's opinion on justice is also getting worse, because when the mills grabbed some of the policies, it was said that with all means also against justice. One of these funds is today's interpolation. For this reason and for the reason that the interpolation is unfounded, I will not confirm it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you. When a person listens to, say, a colleague from the SMC and, rather, other representatives of the ruling coalition, he wonders what planet these people live on. A colleague from the SMC has now made a lot of fuss, "when he grabs the justice of certain policies..." Yes, because they can't, my dear fellow, because this is not working. Justice tried to grab Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic, but then it canceled everything, from the prosecution to everything else and all the evidence was thrown out. You must have been thinking about the present time, about Zoran Jankovic. She couldn't get hold of him. Just the opposite of what you're saying. The judiciary can't capture some politicians because they're close to your coalition or your coalition is really dependent on them. This is all the truth, why people have such a bad opinion, why they now have a worse opinion than you said about justice than they had before. Because all the evidence against the Ljubljana mayor was first exempted and then destroyed. Because of this, people have a bad opinion of the judiciary! And that was now, this moment. Because he's untouchable because nothing happened to him. And they're in the same period – by accident, aren't they? - _ Figured that 16 million debts in his businesses, in his family were pretty well forgiven, failed, proper procedures were carried out, no more problems. But above all, there's no evidence. Politicians are untouchable, thanks to a justice that doesn't work. And that's what the Justice Minister is responsible for. You just have to count one and one. You see, I'm talking about the current time, this mandate, the current moment. And at the moment, actual justice has not seized the kind of policy that would probably deserve it. We will never know whether he is guilty or not guilty, since the court will never be able to rule on this, because the complete justice has cancelled the case of Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic, who is obviously first-class. That this happened to him, that he had just changed some of the rules of the game that had been before, but when the procedure was breached because the arms that were in the law were broken. Even though they did before, you'll say so. Yes, indeed — but why did this happen to him? Why is it that he has different criteria in his justice that those policies are untouchable, as you spoke about. He's your politician, isn't he? I'm sure you had that in mind because you were probably talking about the current time. But when you talk about the protection of human rights, and about the consistent respect for constitutional law – in this House, you have taken in the ruling coalition the unlawful mandate of one of the Members, even though I have read to you three judgments of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia three judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, from which it was clear that you were acting consciously, i.e. implicitly contrary to the Constitution, and that you were knowingly violating human rights. And instead of taking responsibility and falling out where you belong, from this House, because you are a disgrace to this House, you are still splashing here and teaching others what is right and what is wrong and referring to a story that the Constitutional Court concluded was a systematic violation of human rights from the first to the last letter. Is it, for example, the one who prejudged that story and disgraced the judiciary because the shadow of the question of impartiality that should never have been sanctioned by the minister? It's not. In his defense, which you have in writing, he even stresses that it was good for him to do so, to be proud that he did not sanction him because it was pressure. Although there were two credible witnesses who notarized the record that Mr Maslesha stated that the chief prime suspect should be "fucked" in a case which then came before the judicial authority he led, the Supreme Court. Did he sanction him? It's not. He's proud he's not here. Where, now, is the one that is so important for the reputation of justice, the appearance of neutrality and so on, all that is referred to in the Acts of Justice. Even more, my dear fellow, you will not believe that among the reasons for the resolution, the conditions for the resolution state that, "if by violation of the rules or otherwise, the principle of the independence of judges in the trial" which, of course, also contains this appearance of neutrality. That's exactly what this was about. Did the minister do anything? It's not. It is said that he has abandoned his duty in this case as in any other case. He's even proud of it, and he says he was defending his independence. Oh, you're running away. What kind of independence? But if the judge cries out that someone needs to be "fucked" before he's judged, is that independence and neutrality? Well, please, it's a barn! Such a judge should not only leave the office of President of the Supreme Court immediately when this is revealed, but he should leave the judiciary. This would be the defense of the judicial system, its reputation and neutrality, the fact that justice is then blindfolded and measured. This is the basis of the justice system. In Slovenia, however, everything is crazy. In Slovenia, it is perfectly normal today for judges to talk to each other about matters they are referring to, which is, of course, a clear violation of the constitutional principle of neutrality, where the judge should give the same opportunity to defend, equal opportunity to the prosecutor and to judge in accordance with legal acts. You know all this is happening. The same things that are here are documented here, have been published thousands of times, there's no doubt about it. But it is obvious to them that you understand human rights. I suggest you read the Slovenian Constitution and respect it. At least from today. First, of course, let the minister go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	Gradually, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A little while ago, I was a little discontented, but now I am really asking you to conduct this debate in a small way and direct this debate today, even though there are not enough of us in this room. But I think that what Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party enjoy in the last two shows is a little too much. That is why I would really like to ask you, because today I have an interpretation on my agenda of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič, but we have heard many more in these discussions. Or, on the other hand, I expect you to equally allow others to discuss anything, including the things he was talking about right now. Grims or before him, Mr Breznik, i.e. about the various scandals that have taken place in the last, I do not know, at least twenty-five years, if not fifty years in this room, because they are obviously running out of material, content for discussion on a point they have actually proposed. I'd also like to ask you to from the mags. You are asking Grimes to submit a document suggesting that we have taken anything from anyone in this House. Or that he apologizes for what he said. Because of the reputation of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	I'm going to answer that procedural question first. I agree in my work that part of these discussions is aimed at discrediting those who speak, but not at the very subject of the debate. This is the first basic issue of this procedural matter. As for the document itself, I would certainly like to see the document from which it appears that we have done everything wrong from the beginning to the end. As far as I know, the Constitutional Court ruled that the legal basis was as unconstitutional. And this is where the Constitutional Court stopped. But I'd love to read this document. I know it doesn't exist. And I claim that it doesn't exist as Chairman. Now you've got a procedure, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I have understood that a respected colleague wishes to see a document proving their violation of human rights intentionally, which I have specifically warned about and what I have been talking about. This is the outcome of the vote on the withdrawal of Janez Janša's term of office, and this is also an ideal opportunity for the President, who has just said that he will finally make his announcement, because he said then: "If it turns out to be a real violation of human rights, I will take responsibility." So, Mr President, please step down today as an example to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Yeah. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] First of all, I mean, this has nothing to do with procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] No, he doesn't. He has nothing to do with procedural matters. So my first answer to this question will be when you present that judgment, which is from the beginning to the end, as you claim. It's not. Gradually, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. And also for understanding your comment, and for that, after all, that you have protected the MP of mags. Grimes, because there is no such document and he clearly cannot submit it. But what he's given right now would be of interest to me. Please, if you'd like to ask the Ambassador of Mags. Branka Grims on the outcome of the vote, where we voted on the withdrawal of the mandate of Mr Janez Ivan Janša in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	We voted on something else, not the withdrawal of the mandate. [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, Mr. Simon Zajc. I've already given my word and the proposer will get it by that word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	I'll be brief. Anyway, now this replica of mine has come back a little bit because it's been so procedural. When there was talk about who the trial mills grabbed and politics was not enough. In connection with the results of the interpolation today, I would like to say this: I think that we can agree that these trial mills are too small and too weak to grab. I think that's what the Justice Minister found out, and that's why he recently gave us an improved tool to get these mills to grab better. But unfortunately this tool ended its way in this hall because we were too few to make such changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u67	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u68	Well, so that the public can hear us too, that there will not be anything left of what I said, just in this room. You voted on a decision that may have been different, and the content was exactly the same as I said about it, you took an unconstitutional, illegal, grave violation of human rights, a preliminary warning of the constitutional judgment of the Slovenian Constitutional Court, and a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on my part on the withdrawal of the mandate of Mr Janez Janša. You took his seat, and that was the content of your vote. And you did it consciously. It was therefore a deliberate violation of human rights by content. Whatever you want to call it. In the same way, since you are already all in line, the full judgment concerning the Patria case is published on the website of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Please read it. It follows exactly what I said. The whole story was a systematic violation of human rights, from the very beginning due to the wrong foundation to its conclusion and was therefore fully abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u69	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u70	After all these procedural complications, which may in some way be so complicated that ordinary citizens do not understand them, let me tell you why and how we should build trust in the judiciary. Because the constitutional right to equality is already before the law. Laws must be the same for all citizens. That is why today, too, a likely observation to the minister about all the complicated or outstanding issues in recent years, especially in recent years, colleague Horvat, you have mentioned for 25 years or more. True, but once it builds up, that burden is no longer bearable, and the people of this burden of unequal treatment of citizens are no longer able to stand before the judiciary. That is why this reputation is also poor in international terms, in international comparisons. And yet, trust in the judiciary. If we want to strengthen it, it seems to me that we must first ask ourselves what and what all the reverberating public investigations are serving, all the media report on it, people expect what will happen, and then after five, ten years without epilogue, things get old. This certainly does not strengthen the confidence of the general public in the judiciary. They're talking about huge violations, money laundering, people waiting, citizens waiting for what's gonna happen, nothing happens. Then someone may be immediately tried for regret or regret in two months before a court of law. Then he feels like he just didn't do enough. Or if someone is accused of some minor offense, a small theft immediately, they say, yes, obviously in this country, you're accused of stealing pate, as we say many times here, but if you steal millions, nothing happens to you. So we should all just raise millions. This is what boils and creates some mistrust in the judiciary. The second thing that creates mistrust in the judiciary is a case-law that can change for someone overnight, and the next day goes back. So it's decided for someone else, for someone else. And the fact that it can be eliminated for some of the evidence is not the case for others. This all causes dissatisfaction and mistrust in the justice system. I want people to believe in a just country. And every year, there's really less of that. It's up to all our politicians to restore that trust. When we begin to assume objective and subjective responsibilities for our work or our non-start, then it will. That is how it is in other mature democratic countries, and nothing has ever happened to us. We know that we have had different policies, different functionaries in different procedures. They were also named here today. There comes only a suspicion abroad, and the Finance Minister of Germany, Austria, and so on. Unfortunately, this cannot be achieved, or always remains, and is then searched for so long for an irregularity that the mandate passes, that the official seeks another, even better paid, job elsewhere. And the matter goes on. However, in small brains, this remains with the citizens, causes even greater dissatisfaction and even greater division and weakens confidence in the judiciary. Avoiding the hands of justice. Maybe we're a little smooth with that. But again, we've been flattered, maybe in a few years we can measure how things changed here in the last marriage. But in these 20 years, as this avoidance of the rule of law has taken place, it is increasing and there is still a lack of confidence in the judiciary. I can give a concrete example of mistrust in the judiciary: established wills, the case already mentioned in the National Assembly, 945 established wills. And what happened? One disciplinary procedure was introduced. Again, no one who is responsible, I think the Presidents of the Courts here are certainly responsible, no one has taken responsibility for this matter. Maybe because it was too far apart in time, but still, people suffered some damage. If one is a founding will, it's too much to trust in a court of law. And so they say, yes, the will, for God knows what will happen, whether it will be declared or not. And it's happening again. Yeah, maybe that's because we're here too. But we warn you to take on objective, subjective responsibilities and also to say: “Yes, I have made a mistake, I give up.” But we don't know or in this country, there's no such practice as to be able to do this and say, "Yes, I'll be in the background somewhere, not waiting for the epilogue to function, and then I'll wash my guilt." It seems to me that people already have a mouthful of moral values, of ethical values, of what will be different in this country, if it is very little different, or if it is only for those in this country who can afford it, who are such big fish, that they all kneel down before them. And that, I'm sure, at least after what the citizens say that we're dealing with, is too painful. And that's what the Minister of Justice has to do first to prevent such abuse of position, functions. This is where we talked about some of the officials within the judiciary, when the minister said he couldn't ask him to step down, because he should know. And we know what case it was. If I touch on a few things now, how did my colleague Horvat mention the law on the financing of education. He just wanted to say, and he's not here, and I'm not his lawyer, either, but to say, the Constitutional Court has decided what needs to be done. If we do not consider the State Institute as the Ministry of Constitutional Decision, how can we expect people to act by law if this is not taken into account? That's all Joseph Horvat wanted to warn. Let me touch on a subject that I must say that I did not expect from the chairman of the Justice Committee, but today he has made it clear that he wants to see a law on criminal proceedings passed, but without an amendment on the correction of injustices. I have to say, in a way, that hurt me, because in this country, I want us all to be the same before the law. However, the amendment proposed by Nova Slovenija would finally allow this after so many years. Extrajudicial killings, genocides never get old. Nor can it be outdated or hindered by someone who has been involved in such proceedings in one way or another, proving on the basis of archival material that it is possible to return in some way to a good name or to allow people to have the opportunity to correct injustices. I want the Minister or the Ministry, however, to include this in the law on criminal proceedings itself, but to give us the opportunity and the right to be equal before the law, because the principle of equality before the law is constitutional right. Obviously we will have to do this step by step in Slovenia, but it is time to do so. They're all the same before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u71	Just one small actual correction, little brains are for balance, not for memory. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat and Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm interpreting against the work and responsibility of the Minister of Mags. I support Goran Klemenčič, for the second time. I am sure that the Minister of Justice has already been voted on once, even though it has not been tabled as an interpretation, but one of the decisions has been taken by a majority of all Members, even more, all Members and Members have voted in favour of the Commission's report on the Iran-NLB-gate case. And what is one of the articles of the decision that was adopted? In a specific case, the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services was surprised by the conduct of the PSC. They received a secret whistleblower document from the Bank of Slovenia indicating the suspicion of a crime of money laundering. The KPC concluded that it was not competent, so they handed over the document informally to the police. Before that, the document was organised to protect the whistleblower from the Bank of Slovenia. In addition, they did not report the crime to the police on the basis of the provisions of the CAP, as stipulated by the concluded agreement between the KPK and the MNZ and the Police of 1 June 2010, but submitted the document to the NPU staff to take it to the police, where every trace was lost. The conduct of the KPK contrary to the existing agreement between the KPK, the MNZ and the Police of 1 June 2010 constitutes a breach of the officially designated operation of the official institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, this decision has been adopted unanimously by all parliamentary groups. And then you'll say, yes, Mr. Klemenčič did it in some former job, in his previous job. Then let me know why the British Defence Minister resigned a month ago because of a sexual harassment he did not do as a minister, but in his previous job. I could say the same thing. He admitted sexual harassment or inappropriate conduct toward women and gave up. You know why? Because it has morality and integrity. That's something Minister Klemenčič doesn't have. If I had, I would have stepped down as soon as it was decided that all Members and Members of this National Assembly had confirmed that he had done wrong when he had prepared the document and sent it on an informal trip to the police. When one of the witnesses on the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission was interviewed, the person who received the KPK from that individual, this Messenger who brought it there — you know what he said? If we got the original document and we got it on the official route, then we'd take it seriously and start an investigation. That's not how we took it seriously. Because it was just an anonymous one. But we know what it's like to be anonymous. There's a lot of them everywhere, and nobody takes them seriously. Even though sometimes they hold things together. And apparently, in this anonymous woman, who was not anonymous until she left Mr Staret and Mr Klemenčič's hands, the police would have acted differently and perhaps already stopped laundering money because we know that they had washed 1.2 billion dollars or billions of euros for proliferation, to produce an atomic bomb from the Islamic Republic of Iran. And because of this, in addition to other interpretations, I believe that not in this, but in the previous service or, rather, not in the guidelines as they should work, and therefore in the wake of the danger, because we know what the Islamic Republic of Iran had at that time, what it was still doing today, we know what the position of some countries is, especially now that President Donald Trump has arrived in the United States, to the Iranian nuclear programme or to the agreement that was signed. A few weeks ago, they were testing rockets again, probably not the ones that could not carry nuclear spikes, which they certainly produced with the help of this, and especially because money laundering was taking place through the New Ljubljana Bank. Not to say there's no evidence, they're even engaged now, or else the demanta came, I think it's written by Mr Floriančič, there at the police station, Damjan Floriančič, if I'm not mistaken, commented that there was no crime here. And this is the same policeman who participated, the same investigator who participated in this case in 2010 and interestingly, came to the same conclusions. It is not only Mr Klemenčič who is an important part of this government, ministries or government services, that Mr Marjan Funk, who was also involved in this project of failure to detect and prosecute this crime of proliferation, is today the director of the Slovenian police. How, then, could people, citizens, expect these two persons to contribute to the successful investigation that has taken place today, precisely on the basis of what Dr Ange Logar, as chairman of this commission for the investigation of the bank hole, has discovered and then handed over the work of the security authorities of the intelligence and security services, including the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, and what has been found with two reports, which have also been confirmed in the National Assembly. For this reason, I was convinced that this interpretation would not take place at all, not the examination, not the prediction, because the Minister will resign the moment this Parliament approved the decision, one of which clearly states what Minister Goran Klemenčič did as President of the KPK Senate. There was a lot of talk about confidence in justice about how things are going well, how the numbers show well. In his presentation, the minister gave some slides that were supposed to say that. I'm sure those numbers are holding. There are certainly positive developments, but ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens need to be asked what they think about justice. They don't mean that. I don't know what it's like right now, I didn't go to see the data, but in 2014 it trusted the Slovenian judiciary with a good 20% of citizens and citizens. It's not because I'd be here doing what I'm told to do. All that the Slovenian Democratic Party opens in the National Assembly are the specific cases of citizens and citizens they have with the Slovenian judiciary. I know we can't expose every story. Of course, in any case, when a judgment is reached, someone is satisfied, but the other is not satisfied. Whether he is justifiably dissatisfied or unjustifiable, everyone knows that, we cannot expose each case. But the cases listed at the last session, when we talked about abuses in the judiciary, when the motioner Dr. Vinko Gorenak listed them, are cases that scream in the sky. And cases that have also taken place in this mandate. You've talked a lot about having the SDS pick up the mail courts first and then comment on the situation. By picking up the mail, that's how it is. We know that since 2011 we have had the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin. I have asked the Minister of Justice in this mandate, I think a year and a half or two years ago, how successful they are in this area. We all know what's going on in Slovenia, we see what a bank hole was like, what assets have not been taken from practically anyone, now I don't know if they've taken 20 million or what, or insured that much. I'm sure the minister has the exact data, then he can present it. But POPNI is clear — a financial investigation can take up to a maximum of a year, it can be extended for another six months. The financial investigation against Janez Janša started in September 2013 and the action was lodged in April 2017. Although the law states that a financial investigation may last a year, a maximum of one and a half years, in this case, the financial investigation has lasted more than three years. Then here again we have a legal state that acts for the first-class, second-rate, legal state of two speeds, if you want. In accordance with the law, Zoran Jankovic is deleted and all evidence is discarded after two years. John Janša, although it is clear in the law that a financial investigation may last for a maximum period of one year, exceptionally for another six months, after three years of the financial investigation. What about the rule of law? Do we pour manure, as you say, under the rule of law because we expose such cases? Look what you did on Monday or Tuesday. You overstepped all the provisions, ransacked the entire state of law to save one Arab. But you've never hit a state of law to save a Slovenian. That's what Prime Minister Miro Cerar did. He's the president of the government. The governments are made up of ministers who are confirmed on the proposal of coalition parties, and I mean all those who have not distanced themselves from it. We will see again how the rule of law works for first-class and second-class. Article 301 of the Penal Code, participation in a group which prevents an official act from taking place. As I read today, a criminal indictment has been filed against Mr Škobrnet and Micha Kordiš and we will see how the rule of law works. I'm sure you'll vote their immunity before you even invoke it. But these are concrete examples of how it works, or better said, how Slovenian justice does not work. You can put such and different numbers up as far as the backlog is being reduced, how many fewer judges there are compared to 2007, but it will not help because citizens and citizens have their opinions, they have the right to generate their own opinions. And the Minister has done nothing to strengthen confidence in the justice of all citizens and citizens. He made a point in the case of Bavčar. You know, it's no problem for us to have Bavčar in prison. The problem is that in Slovenia we have big thieves who don't sit, and right now they're probably playing basketball. Whoever did something wrong is responsible for it. But the minister only once stood out. When it came to Mr. Igor Bavčar. How about the case of Zoran Jankovic, who is untouchable, who himself said in a conversation about Serbian television when he was asked if he was afraid that he would ever be processed or in any way in that sense, he said, "No, no, you know, but I am the one who opposes Janez Janša." And that's a guarantee! This is a guarantee that you are safe in this country, that nothing happens to you, that you will get another 300 million euros as the mayor of Ljubljana for the award, that you will give peace there, that we will erase the hearings, all the evidence, only that you will not work any party or go to parliamentary elections. There you have that Ljubljana, you work your daycare there, and that's it. If Zoran Jankovic had a morale like that of the British Defence Minister, who resigned because he was exposed to certain acts, not as bad as the mayor, because he had hearings, he gave up. The mayor is just where he is, even because the judiciary doesn't work, even because no one will get hurt. See if it comes to light and when it becomes clear that, for example, Blanka Žgajner is the one who is guilty of not being prosecuted for failing to proceed against him, Blanca Žgajner should leave. Mr. Minister, are you going to do anything to get Blanka Žgainer out of here? And then we have the D.A. speaking like that, the D.A. speaking like that, the Minister of course speaks a little mediation between the two of us, calls someone to defend himself, demands some clarification. But in the end, nothing happens. And there's only one other thing. The United Left is gone, probably somewhere with Ahmad, maybe packing for Croatia. But the eyewitnesses were, SDS doesn't respect the rule of law, up, down. Left, right. Let me tell you in which case the Slovenian Democratic Party did not respect the rule of law. Did we bring John Janša to the National Assembly on June 20, 2014 and hide him here, or did we send him to the Prison of the Age? What lack of respect for the rule of law by the SDS? Did Mr. Janša go to parliament or did he go to prison? He went to jail. Has any treatment ever been dismissed since he did not go to court, attended a hearing? Never. What about Mr. Fisher? But if you think it's a lack of respect for the rule of law for us to point out mistakes, you're wrong. True, there is a great difference between respect and respect. The SDS takes the rule of law into account, taking into account the judgments of the courts. Nothing ever fell off because of us. The rule of law will have to be established in Slovenia first, and only then will we have the opportunity to respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr Mitja Horvat has the word to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Good evasiveness, dear colleague Mahnic, I would like to welcome you on your way out of the hall, after you have said your own words, because otherwise you would have done things, if you had not corrected yourself, I would have reminded you and reminded you that especially when you talk about others that you need to look out for two. If you're insulting me, and if you're setting me up, I expect you to apologize, and you won't just average me if someone does something, you'll think I did it myself. What I've done, I've done what others do, others do. And please, not so long and short. I could also read to you what are the powers of the Defence Committee and the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. And I'm gonna stop at that part. That's enough of that. There are examples, including current cases, which also give certain doubts that the words you said during your performance are also true. I'd rather go to the windy part because I've been preparing it before, but now you've given me a little incentive to react. To Mr. Dr. Gorenak, who is not here to be able to say this to him face-to-face, Minister Klemenčič did not plant maritas at the opening presentation, but a pomegranate, and it was a beautiful bouquet that you brought to us in the National Assembly, for which we thank you very much. As well as for a slightly premature Christmas-New Year's gift. Thank you so much for the present. It comes from your performances that you do not believe in what you wrote in interpolation because you try with everything else that has nothing to do with what is in interpolation, and only with a vivid imagination can you come to the conclusion and suggestions that are like in interpolation. I am practically reminding you of this in every interpretation, and I will remind you today that as far as interpolation is concerned, at least ten Members may submit an interpretation of the work of the government or of the individual minister, in which a clear and reasoned question must be raised. I didn't detect any real questions except the readings. That is probably also why today's interpolated mags. Goran Klemenčič can only monitor this debate because you have no questions for him. But you don't have to answer the blanks. I therefore hope that, as far as this is concerned, you will consider whether such instruments are in the same way as you have invested them this time at all. In view of the events and in view of everything that is going on, most likely as respected Anja Bah Žibert said earlier that someone else is praying to you, most likely on this side of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia pray to God and thank him every day for the mag. There's a Klemenice. Because it's all his fault. So, after all, we can actually all be happy and happy that there is a mag. Klementzel. If anything is wrong in this country, it's Minister Klemenčič's fault. It is most likely also responsible for floods in the Republic of Slovenia when the rain falls, because it did not act on time and improved the situation in this area and ensured that some are flooded to flood others or vice versa. Before I go any further, let me read what it actually says is the work area of the Ministry of Justice. 37. Article of the Law on State Administration: The Ministry of Justice shall carry out tasks in the fields of organisation and status of courts, the State Prosecutor's Office, the State Attorney's Office, the Constitutional Court and the Ombudsman, the supervision of the operations of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Attorney's Office, and other types of legal supervision, civil and criminal law, the systematic regulation of the restriction of corruption, judicial procedures, alternative dispute resolution, judicial administration, judicial administration, notariat, the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the protection of personal data, international legal assistance and international judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, the direction of ministries regarding the enforcement of judgments of international courts, the examination and planning, the enforcement of fundamental human rights and freedoms, the e-Justice and the task of planning and the coordination of the spatial needs of judicial bodies and the management of these bodies' investment needs. It is not Minister Klemenčič who orders how courts should act, how they should judge how to judge specific cases. I'm begging you, there's nowhere else to go! Minister Klemenčič is going through enough self-criticism to know where the borders are. And I can only imagine what it would be like for a minister to do what you read to him today, in fact, these three years. Let's take a look at most of the readings if I pack them up a little bit more together, and I'm not going into the details. Article 125 of the Constitution states: “The judges shall be independent in the performance of the judicial function, bound by the Constitution and the law.” Not available to the Minister of Justice. I'm begging you, there's nowhere else to go! And this time you've gone too far. In view of the fact that before that, Mr Vice-President, I hope that you will allow me, because the debate went very wide, to say something small in response to certain things that have happened. I am sorry that there is no one from New Slovenia among us in my debate, given that Mrs Dimic said, regarding the Criminal Procedure Act, that it would be right and that it was right to correct the injustices for those who can prove that they have at least this opportunity to show innocence and rehabilitation for those who have been possibly wrongly convicted. Unfortunately there was no vote at the time of the vote, unfortunately she did not give a vote, not just herself, but there were no more members of New Slovenia in the vote itself. We voted second, which we believe is right. When Mrs Dimic also says that the judges appoint themselves – I ask you nicely and call on New Slovenia to come to the meeting of the Mandate-Election Commission and also to the National Assembly when we have a agenda item, I would like to ask you to attend the last item of the agenda of the plenary session of the National Assembly, where we have elections and appointments. Let's take a look back if we haven't thought about it in this mandate and asked the Council of Justice to present its practice and choice, the proposals of the judges, so that we don't do what it says. Of course, I strongly reject that the National Assembly only formally endorses the proposals of the Council of Justice. And like the real mag. Grimes, the planet we live on. I often wonder that myself. Looks like two of them are different. I can say I live on planet Earth. With regard to the question that politicians are not responsible and that is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, because justice does not work. Please! The division of power. In the Republic of Slovenia, it has the authority of the people, directly and through elected representatives, in accordance with the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters. The fact that Minister Klemenčič is making maximum efforts in this area and – because I am looking at my successor who will speak after me – Mr Pojbič, who likes to express himself figuratively also with the animal world – of course he always smokes for a good horse. Also behind Minister Klemenčič, always and everywhere, is in any position. And he has what I expect from the minister, which, of course, is why I am proud to be the minister of this government because he has courage because he has determination and he has perseverance. If anything, I appreciate it with him because he is not subjected to political pressure and insists. It is not said that she will obey him, but her attitude is clear and easily followed. Therefore, thank you very much, once again for the end, the honourable speakers, for giving us this opportunity, so that I can also express my support and thanks in a public place to Minister Klemenčič for everything we have to give and what you are going through to do for the good of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am not disturbed by the debate between individual Members and Members. But it bothers me if someone first talks about how we've been in the SDS, I don't know, mutilating everything on the average, how we're muddling the minister, but on the other hand, he's talking about how we haven't talked specifically about interpolation. Now I allow Dr. Horvath not to be in the hall all the time. But, President, I won't allow it. I spoke exclusively from the interpretation or to Dr. Horvath that I also responded to what the minister originally said. He was talking about legislation, and he avoided what was written in interpretation. And just so I'm done, then people will be able to make their own judgment on a particular debate. That someone in the defense of the minister says that a respected constitution is necessary and that the judges are untouchable, then I don't know how he can be defended as a doctor, when the same minister declares that the heads will fly if the judges don't do what he's supposed to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. What was the procedural proposal? I must say that this debate is really very broad. But if it started wide, now we can't bring it back to life. The only thing I could say to Dr. Horvath is that if the National Assembly put it on the agenda, so the College put it on the agenda, then the interpretation is obviously legal here. That's all it is. Otherwise, he responded to what had been said earlier in all these hours, and he has that right. Mrs. Eva Irgle. A replica? Procedural? If Mrs. Eva Irgle has a procedural advantage. No, replica. Then go ahead, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. I understand that there are certain things you cannot point to, but that someone who makes a statement or I will say otherwise. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we tabled an interpretation, a text that went through the procedure. And it is unacceptable for someone to evaluate the statements of others, saying that we ourselves do not believe in our own documents. That's unworthy. Even if we have based our debate on this document, while he himself did not base it on these documents. None of the points in his debate are from the documents. We should talk about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u79	Actually, that's what I said before. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, the replica, that's right. Mr Horvath, in your debate, among other things, you said that we do not believe in our own interpretation and that we have also not asked any questions to the Minister of Justice, which we have been interpreting since 10 a.m. this morning. That's not gonna hold. I guess you weren't here when I asked you nine clear questions to the Minister of Justice. But it is true that until now he has not answered me, even though I have asked him not to do so at eleven o’clock in the evening or at midnight, but to answer these questions without delay. But apparently he can't answer. And now I'm going to repeat again what I wanted from the Minister, even you, because you obviously weren't here to know. I asked him whether he could become a minister, a person who was acting contrary to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. I asked him whether he could become a minister who was in violation of legislation which was also in violation of the highest legal act of the Republic of Slovenia and was proved in the case of Mr Klemenčič. He didn't answer. And he also violated human rights, Mr Horvat. He didn't answer. No, he prefers the post of Commissioner to the Council of Europe for Human Rights. I asked him if he could become a minister someone who's proven to be deceiving and lying in for the country of essential things. We are talking about money laundering and what the Minister or then the President of the Commission has done to prevent corruption in this case. He didn't answer that question. And we know what he was doing. I asked him whether he could become a minister who did not want to explain his assets, which did not provide all the documentation on his property to the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which you are leading in this mandate, Mr Horvat. Can you answer me, Mr Horvat, who is also a lawyer, whether such a person can have the necessary integrity and sufficient to become a minister? Even the Minister of Justice. I asked him whether the Minister could become a person who could not explain why the house he was staying in was not entered into Gurs' records, even though that person, in that case, was twice warned by the competent institutions that he must do so. All the other citizens did it. Why he didn't report his wife's company, and that's why I asked him if he could become a justice minister. I asked him how it was possible for him to receive credit under significantly more favourable conditions than the others and whether he could in fact have become Minister of Justice. And I asked him if the Minister could become a person who, as a secretary of state, was at the Ministry of the Interior, assisted in the corruption of the procedures concerning the purchase of the National Investigation Office building. Mr. Secretary, he didn't answer my question. I will only be for a second or two, Mr President, because I want these things to be cleared up because I don't want some of them to talk on average, they're not here and they don't know what we've been dealing with so far. And I also want Mr Minister to actually answer these clearly asked questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Irgle. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u82	Mr President! Those who have now listened very carefully to what Eva Irgle said should clearly press the button that the minister must leave this room immediately. Now! Unconditional! How can anyone imagine in a democratic country that a justice minister could be the man who did all that Eve asked the question? And he didn't answer any questions. Not one. Because these questions are very problematic for him and touch on integrity and everything that Eve said. And morals and ethics. The SMC party that you're talking about morality and ethics, and, sir, you, but I'm not going to argue with you, there's no talking. You, Mitja, speak of morality and ethics, and then unconditionally speak here in front of the entire Slovenian public about supporting such a man as Minister of Justice. What kind of moral-ethic attitude is SMC's client then? And most importantly, you, Mr Mitja, said that in Slovenia, in our country has power in the hands of the people. Do you know how people feel about the judicial branch of power and also about Klemenčič? 80% of people say that this branch does not work in the interest of the Slovenian people to work against the interests of dividing people into first and second-class. Then I'll give you a few arguments. And how can you, in such a vehement way and so with superlatives, defend such a man when the Slovenian people, 80% say that the judicial branch of power does not work, that it works extremely badly and that it is directed against most citizens and citizens. Do the research, please, Mr Mitja, and you'll see what people think about it. And then you ask yourself, is there something wrong with us, who are warning us about these pigs, whether 80% of Slovenes and Slovenians are stupid? Then you must answer this question if you know this answer. But you know what people and Slovenians have to say about the judicial branch of power in our country because of the excesses that have happened, and I'm going to count some of them, and I'm going to ask you, and I want you to answer that, because you're such an ardent advocate of such a minister. Such a moral-ethical minister. And when this moral-ethic minister answers the questions asked by my colleague Eva, he specifically answers these questions, and then we can start talking about whether or not he has cleared up certain matters on his own. And if I were to clear up certain things with myself, today this interpolation should not even be here because it should have been a long time ago. You said it wasn't you who said it, but someone from your parliamentary group, that we're in the SDS keenly against Mr. Klemenčič. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who have spoken in this direction, I ask you, how long has this government been in power? I'm asking you how long. Three and a half years. We have filed an interpellation against Mr Klemenčič after three and a half years, when things have really gone through every edge, when it is no longer sustainable, it is no longer possible to tolerate this by making a fool out of every individual or Slovene and Slovenian. To relieve Jankovic of selling one house for 200 euros for 16 million euros, not to mention the case I'm going to talk about, Jankovic. Not to mention the Tošić case and so on and so on and so on and so on. Not to mention the case of Frlinc. And Cekut's example, spanishing almost hand in hand in the streets of Maribor. My dear colleagues, look, these are the questions that we have to answer if we want to talk about the Slovenian country, if we are talking about law, the rule of law and the rule of law in our society. These are privileged people. These are the privilege holders of the cup, and among them are Mr Klemenčič. Definitely. Because the pillar of all these stories is part of the pillar, part of the chain! Part of the chain because he didn't cut it! If he cut it, it doesn't matter what color it is. Would it be a minister from New Slovenia, or from the SD, or from your party or any of them, to cut off this mess, which destroys the Slovenian country, which destroys the Slovenian people, which destroys in all possible ways the unity of the Slovenian people by means of procedures, by means of ways, by way of conduct, by means of its captures and so on. And it causes what the Slovenian people are now feeling. From day to day this separation, this attack in every way possible to separate the Slovenian people so that the elite who lives as gods in this country can continue to rule. This is your philosophy, this is the doctrine that you advocate. I'm against it. We are Slovenian Democrats against this, so we warn the Slovenian public and also you politicians to do something to cut it off. If Mr. Klemenčič did this, I would say, yes, he has serious intentions to change things. And even those mistakes he made, I would confess, I would say, look, it was my fault, it was my fault, it was my fault, it was my fault, and so on and so forth. I am talking about the answers to these questions that Eva asked him. But he didn't do it. He didn't mention it in one word. Today I cannot get past this when you are trying to convince us in every way that we have some special desires in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I would say, to destroy Klemenčič. In this debate today, I listened to it all the time. That's what Desus was saying, look, I got it written down, I wrote it down. [[…]] This seems to me to be an abnormal state so someone can talk about it. We only point to irregularities and damage done to Slovenian people, to those small people, to those who do not have a few million in the account, who do not know how much property does Mr Klemenčič have. And where did he get this property? Why don't we check his assets? Why not? No matter if he's a justice minister. Dear Mr Mitja, why don't we check the assets if we have to show them all, every cent you've got somewhere. Why don't we check the D.A.'s assets? Why don't we check the wealth situation of the judges, the presidents of the courts, the bankruptcy managers and so on? Go, please, look at some of these people you know or don't know, and you'll see how these people live, what they have! What do they all have? Judges, too! Don't say that, Mrs. Murgel, because you have no idea. I'll tell you what, I'm gonna go take a few pictures, and I'll get you some pictures, and then we'll take care of it. And you're not saying anything. It will happen that I will do so because I have this suitcase full of deceiving, lying and carrying the Slovenian people around. And that's a lot of those I've just counted, not all of them. Some of them are honest. Thank God some are honest! But there are many who live at the expense of the poor people to get rich. And it's in this judicial branch of power that's huge. Please list these stories that I've listed now. Go look at the individual and you'll see what property they have. Why don't you ask them where they got the money? Ask them! Why don't we ask them? Why don't we do this to clear things up? Let's see that everyone is honest, that the prosecutors are honest, that the judges are fair, all of them! I'm talking about those who aren't honest, not those who are. Because a lot of them are honest, but a lot of them are unfair. You have seen – I think on Facebook – a huge house of one prosecutor or judge from Slovenj Gradz, I don't know exactly. She's been spinning for two months, three months, and no one's reacting. Why didn't anyone go ask this lady where she got this money, if that's what the court salary is, or if it's the prosecutor's salary and that's what it's like. Where did she get that? But if you're looking at these bankruptcy managers and these connections between judges and bankruptcy managers, lawyers and so on. What has happened here is that corruption has been cut off. The point is that we expected Mr Klemenčič to cut through those channels that manipulate the entire Slovenian public from behind. Look what Klemenčič wrote, as far as the judicial branch of power is concerned, in the final speech. When responding to the interpretation, he wrote in the preceding paragraph, “but I do not want these statements to be understood as my complacency with the situation in Slovenian justice. This is certainly not optimal or satisfactory, and as Minister of Justice, I feel responsible for this.” Now I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, what did Mr. Minister do because he feels responsible? You know what I should do? To leave this position immediately because it does not control it, to leave this position immediately because it does not control it if the Minister himself in the final answer writes it. What kind of minister do we have? I should write, this measure, this measure, this measure will be here in the National Assembly within 14 days in order to resolve this situation so that it does not defend this situation. Please, what kind of country do we live in? What kind of people lead us? Now I'm going to count four, five arguments why we've been interpreting the Minister after three and a half years so you won't say we have any terrible grudges against Klemenčič. Mr Klemenčič became Secretary of State in 2008 – and it is right to say this again, that people will know what this is about – in the interior ministry run by Katarina Kresal at the time. This then rented premises for the NPU in Dimičeva in Ljubljana for rent of EUR 136 000 per month. The owner of Yuri Pogačar, you all know who this is, paid a loan of 124 thousand euros a month to the bank. That means he put 11,000 euros in his pocket every month. Of course, he was a personal friend of Katarina Kresal. Goran Klemenčič was the auditor of the entire project, which means he knew about the whole matter. Of course, he did not take action, he did not file any criminal charges, but simply left the position of Secretary of State at the internal ministry prematurely and apparently agreed on a new job. Only a few months after his resignation, he was appointed president of the KPK, of course for a higher salary. Secondly, Mr Minister was also obliged to report on his assets to the Council of State's Commission on Elections at the time of his duties as President of the KPK. At a number of meetings of this commission, he could not be sure where the property came from, especially the one with which he could buy a castle in Lukovica. At the last meeting of the panel mentioned above, he even began to scream and left the meeting in protest. Mr Klemenčič was also President of the KPK, in which the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia found that he had violated as many as eight laws in the management of the KPK. Well, nothing happened. He was appointed Minister of Justice for the award. Of course it's for a higher salary. And so on, and so on. More, say, this thing. He was president of the KPK when he was informed that an Iranian businessman had washed a billion dollars through NLB, and I think it's a billion euros, not a billion dollars, and so on and so forth, I will not go on. It is said that more than too many arguments are that we have fully justified this interpretation. In addition to what I have listed here, there are also 10 questions raised by my colleague Eva. If that's not a big enough argument! In addition to the fact that justice in our society is written in the worst possible place in humans. Say what you want, that's right, definitely. Ask the people! It's amazing if you ask small people, they don't even hope to go to court. They don't hope to go! They say, "I'm not going to court because I don't have a chance if I don't have a fat wallet." When people say that, something's wrong. Then there's something wrong with the system. And there's something wrong with the head of this system. That's what I'm telling you. People tell me: “I don’t want to justify myself because I don’t have a chance. Because he who has the money wins." Don't tell me it's not like that. Those who sit in thick chairs can say that and care little about the little man. But I'm not, because I come from places where I feel very much. People trust me. And thank God, that is why I am a Member of the National Assembly, because I am honest, honest and responsible. The one you say you don't, but the big question is, who are you representing, why are you sitting here? As long as one team holds together, one narrow group of people manipulates the whole Slovenian story, including the work of politics, there will be no solution in Slovenia for a small person, for those who need help, for which we are actually in this national assembly. To help those who need help, not those who have everything. Today we also talked about some exceptional cases and talked about how someone would sit, how someone would not sit, how someone would be in prison. I'm asking you, like, the Waller problem. What about the Waller? Why isn't Zidar closed? I'm asking you why he's not incarcerated. You, the coalition, the Justice Minister and all those authorities that have an impact on this. Why isn't he locked up? Is it because he was carrying 30% or that I don't know how much money for all the political officials of that time? Because we can overpay me a complete highway cross for 30%? Where did that money go? Have you ever wondered? Why isn't this gentleman locked up? I'm asking you. I'm asking you if you've ever checked Isilovich's assets. Have you ever checked Jankovic's assets? You checked him out — but what happened? Then 16 million were written off. It's a story. Have you ever examined the property of the Grounder? Have you ever done that? Not to mention the bankers that were robbed because we invested so much and so much money in the banks through the deposit. The people put money in the banks to repair the robbers' thefts. They're making a story for us today. Does that seem normal to you, fair and square? Is this the rule of law? Is this a branch of authority worth trusting? Before I mentioned Tošić, I mentioned these things earlier. Is that normal? It's normal, I'm asking you. Then they close someone for one pack of lighters for six months or a year. And they're all avoiding each other. Let's not talk about obsolescence. What a judicial branch of power it is that once and for all one elite can happen that his case is outdated. You could count another thousand and one more case. I think the moment has come to an end, and the interpolation we have put in is justified. Mr Klemenčič must leave immediately if he has any morals and ethics. Because he's contaminated because of what we put in here. Contaminated! And it has to be prevented, this chain has to be cut. When we do this, Slovenia will breathe, people will be able to live normally and people will not say that they cannot go to court to fear the courts. What is the rule of law that people, their own citizens, are afraid of courts? Catastrophe. I'll support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. You have the right to think and say what you want to say, only to report to 89 Members that you are the only one who understands a small man, which is a little too much. We were all elected. I, for as long as I can remember, have advocated a social story and, if you like, so-called J and so on. And to read, including me, I think it's incorrect. Well, that, please, at some point just try to hold on a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u84	Replica, Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u85	Mr President, I didn't say that. I said I was the one fighting for it. And I didn't say you weren't the one. Don't say that, but you made that up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u86	You said the only one. Okay, okay, we got along. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u87	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course he's feeling a little nervous today. This is probably the cause of the poor work of the Minister of Justice in the Republic of Slovenia. I am firmly convinced that all of us who went to the last elections in 2014 went with the responsibility of doing something good for the country we live in. The fact is also that Mr Cerar, a constitutional lawyer, was the first in these elections. I will say so until I appointed Mr Klemenčič as Justice Minister, because I am repeatedly naive, I may still have believed in the success of this mandate. When this happened, I began to strongly doubt this mandate, especially in the field of justice. Today is an uncomfortable session, probably for someone in this National Assembly. In particular, Members and Members of the coalition who know and have already been indignant at the appointment of this Minister must defend this interpretation after three and a half years. And this minister, your honor, especially you from the largest coalition party, has repeatedly served as your deputy. I think it would be right for us to even admit it. We have heard many times today that we are destroying Minister Klemenčič in the SDS party during this interpretation. I'm sure that's not true. But Minister Klemenčič is destroying the rule of law. I'm sure of that, and then I'll have a few arguments. I do not want to repeat myself on the segments that have already been told many times today. If I have ever doubted this current minister, then the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, who, under the order of a group of people who control this place and who took over Slovenia in 1990, took the courts into their own hands, and this works in 2017 also in 2014–2018 under the leadership of this Justice Minister, I demolished the Government, no matter what happens in Slovenia, even at the price of the difficult situation in Slovenia. That's the first time I've stopped by this current minister. If I go from case to case to case, I have asked this minister several questions in this mandate on the subject of one construction company, which is bankrupt, I can say that everyone who is following this meeting will be embezzled by 1.7 million euros. I'm not saying it's the minister's fault. What am I trying to say? When I asked this question several times, the matter came so far that these bankruptcy administrators and the first man of the court snuck together every Tuesday. At the depot, however, she had €1.7 million of deposited money waiting for the damaged company to die overnight. I'm afraid that didn't happen. This bankruptcy has begun to nervously transfer his assets to his family. That was the first indication that something was going on. What am I trying to say with this case? With this minister, I will never claim that all the judges are bad. I'm sure we have a lot of good judges. But with this minister, this weed in the courts cried out. And it blends much more frequently with grains. This is one of the cases done by the first man of one of the courts in Slovenia with the bankruptcy manager. Dear Members and Members, especially the one from which your Minister comes, I am going to go to another particular matter which the Minister certainly knows. The first is to take care of the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, in order for the judiciary to be the same for everyone and for the judiciary to be fair. Objects owned by the State and restored by the State, together with a foreign country, are placed on the property by someone at the time of the restoration of the land register. We know the minister will probably know who lived in this facility. Once again, the property owned by the State is being renewed by the State with taxpayers' money, financially assisted by a foreign state to the Ministry, and during the reconstruction of the land register is entered into the facility. And book the one who runs this institution. Maybe one more case. Someone buys a castle, many can't even buy a basic apartment or build a house. Someone buys a castle, of course a lot of fog and a lot of smell around that city on the financial side, that's part of the story. The second part of the story is that someone between 300 and 400 euros diverted the money that was intended for the reconstruction of a small church or chapel owned by the Republic of Slovenia and redirected it to this private castle. I am firmly convinced, as well as the case is known by this minister who cares for justice in the Republic of Slovenia. These are the cases I know. I am not a lawyer and will not go to the level of law in the Republic of Slovenia. But I know from my years of experience what is fair and what is not fair in the Republic of Slovenia. All day long, I have been accompanied by some who may be mocking when they make fun of each other, some even say that this interpretation is not necessary, some say, as I said before, that we are destroying this minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all of us who were elected to the National Assembly, all of us who went to the candidate, did not know whether we would be in the coalition or the opposition. But no matter which side we sit on, we are all responsible for the situation in the Republic of Slovenia. If we went to the street to do a poll on what the coalition means and what the opposition means, it would probably be bad results. Our shared responsibility is to think of ourselves today, even if someone is funny and even if someone in the National Assembly thinks that this interpretation is unnecessary. This interpellation is necessary for the minister, no matter how it is written, to go from this position to someone who is in favor of a just Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll start with the part that amuses me the most, why this interpolation is necessary today. Probably because those who speak for three and a half years in fact speak very little in the National Assembly are approaching the elections, and now they think they will bring everyone in when they discuss these interpretations. Of course, this does not apply to those who have been doing this all year long, and you will be able to identify yourself as to who fits where. No, no, it doesn't apply to everyone, so there'll be no mistake. But let's think about it for ourselves. Yeah, okay. Well, let's go to the interpolation. I have told you several times, but if 80% of the interpretations in all mandates have actually invested in the SDS, then we should actually know that they are superheroes and experts and know what interpolation is. Unfortunately for you, that 80% is getting a little worse because you're making worse and worse interpolations. Now I don't know if you've run out of will, energy or you're doing this on purpose, to actually look for some new paths or maybe there's some new version that might lead to some new practice. There have been some of you today, which you have really mentioned — not on this side, on this side — that the interpretation itself is actually because, by the constitution and by the rules of procedure, we all know that the interpretation applies only to the period in which the Minister/Minister or Prime Minister works. However, in some way through the back door, you want to continue to bring this famous story, that actually someone should take off their pants from birth, and in fact, in some of your discussions, you are admitting that this minister should not actually become a minister, which means that, in fact, once he has been elected, you should, by this logic, have already given an interpretation the following day. At least in view of these reasons that you are referring to as an argument, we could have done so the next day. Why? Because most of the things you said today happened before his appointment, and before he became a minister, you actually had all these files and folders already written. You just had to add essentially what was adopted by law according to your idea or by what you're not actually satisfied with, and your hand on your heart, you wouldn't be pleased in any way. This minister could have done what he wanted, and you wouldn't have been happy in the end. You know why? Because he can't do the reform you can do. Because you'd do something else, you'd simplify things. Today I hear a lot about human rights, a lot about which I don't know what kind of justice system, but you are a party who, in this national assembly alone, has talked most of the time about the despicable and unfair judiciary. Of course, you add quickly, like your last discusser, this sentence I liked the most, that most of the judges are actually good judges, but in the time of Minister Klemenčič weed was created. Well, who's going to actually understand what you're trying to say? That is to say, if most of the judges are good, very little stink, but in fact, at the time of Klemenčič, most of them have actually become distasteful. Explain that logic to yourself. I don't know it. Because you would like to go to this first part where you brought this matter in, which the National Assembly has set up a commission of inquiry, which is actually the only one competent to investigate the case of money laundering, which concerns political responsibility and the possible possibility of changing the system law, so that it does not happen if the commission confirms it. However, it is interesting that I do not know how many committees now, in fact, on various commissions all the time, you will bring this subject to the table with a single purpose because everyone would like to do a little bit of this. What's more, you even bring it to the interpolation. At the same time, let's let this be all illegal, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're referring to, I'm going to say, interrogations or informational interviews, whatever you call it, which were in fact again in some way without any legal basis. Some of you are even discussing things today where the sessions were closed, and for one purpose, I am talking about the MVK, which was in the previous term. You have to think about the MVK in the previous term! But we are talking about Minister Klemenčič in this term, and we are even reading it within the interpolation. You're talking about not wanting to present his assets, and I don't know what else. Please, I don't understand one thing now – didn't the Minister report his assets to the KPK? If it is not available, the KPK would probably have to carry out all the necessary procedures by official duty and by law to warn, deepen and re-emphasize it and then make it public sooner than before. And other procedures are needed to do so. I don't know. Or you're talking about something that doesn't concern this minister, but it concerns the President of the KPK, and you're directly interfering with a debate about an independent body that our interpretation cannot and cannot touch at all. Because interpellation is reserved for ministers, the president of the government, and no one else. Not for KPK. But today you demonstrate this all the time in this debate. I hear a lot of nonsense here when you're discussing how much the minister has credit and how much credit he's got. Yes, I'm sorry, Mrs. Eva Irgle, how do you know that? Are you a banker? Did you then calculate that this was an overpriced loan? But how? Did you hire any? But you didn't say in your speech and your performance that you came to this information illegally. You don't tell the Slovenian public that. And that you're still operating on personal data today. And that's why the MVK session was closed. That's the only reason. Not because we're talking about some classified information. No, no, no. Since it was personal data protection, the meeting was closed. You can't even say that this same MVC didn't do what he should have done if he wanted to search the president's property. It should establish a Senate, either the whole committee or only certain individual members. He didn't do it! You did not say that the President of the then MVK was illegal, without the decision of the MVK there was a request for information on the personal property of Minister Klemenčič both at the bank and everywhere. Tell that to the truth, we'll know what we're actually saying. Because people don't know what you're talking about here. One because they don't have a historical memory, one because they weren't there. And I was. And I think it's perverse what you're saying today. It's a lie. It's a fiction called Slovenian. No Deception — Lies, Lies, and Again! Nothing else. The next thing that is very important, and it needs to be said out loud, is that we will understand what we are talking about. Today Mr Gorenak spoke here, by the way, he mentioned the next sentence that the reader does not actually have his own opinion or that he is not sure of what he is saying. Unfortunately, I have to say, one who doesn't read gets confused a lot because he thinks he knows everything and he can think of all the information. Today, Mr Gorenak has said some things that are not true in this free speech, in which he believes so much. Let's go see what he actually said. He said that in fact, the Minister boasted about how the number of convictions had actually decreased, which, in order to avoid debt, had been problems before the European Court of Justice and, in fact, referred to the case of Shilih, which, in fact, closed down after so many years of agony. And then Mr Gorenak says the following sentence: "In other words, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned Slovenia because our courts violated human rights and citizens have therefore paid such and different amounts. To be even more ironic, the minister boasts of the Shilih case, this is that boy, 20 years old, in 1990, who was shot in the hospital in Izola, so he died as far as we know.” In one sentence, he says four things. The boy wasn't 20 years old, but he was 21 years old. Secondly, it didn't happen in 1990, but it did happen in 1993. Thirdly, he did not die in Izola, but it happened in Slovenj Gradc and died in Ljubljana. He said so many stupid things that now I wonder what's true and what's not. Then says the famous phrase at the end, the last sentence, which is the key: “And now the minister boasts that this case has been solved. Yes, of course, if it was resolved by the European Court of Human Rights and not by our court. What does the minister have to do with this, except to boast?” Well, now let's get to the point of understanding. I had to tell him that the Slovenian public accompanying this would also understand what we are talking about. This unfortunate incident took so long that no one in the media in this country wanted to save him. The Slovenian National Hospital was convinced that the material evidence did not at all come to the end to prove them guilty, and vice versa, the court was always returning to the first stage from the beginning and the matter would take so long to finally, God knows, to close. But there'll be no mistake. That was in 1993. The SDS government was — when? From 2004 to 2008. Then it was once again in between, which is in 2011. Has she ever faced this case? Has the Slovenian government ever solved or tried to solve the Shilih problem? Never. Therefore, Mr Gorenak, you should be ashamed to talk today about how the Minister actually has nothing to do with this. During this Minister, mediation took place, and not least until four agreements within this mediation, with which the matter was closed. We also have the Shilih project because of this case, otherwise we wouldn't have it. I'm sorry, but those of you who simply think that you're going to cheat and throw mud into the propeller and only talk about what you actually know how to talk, and that is, I have to say that I can't stand it any more, but I can put it in a common denominator. And today we've had what we've been listening to for the past few years, the same thing over and over again: elites and corruption by small people. These are three words that actually spice up each of his speeches. And in the end it happens and says that this minister is contaminated, he says, “contaminated”. Excuse me, I'm gonna ask you a rhetorical question, if you even know what that means. Is Janez Janša a contaminated Member? We simply need to focus on the content of interpolation, not on what is not actually. Now, I'm going to tell you how the SDS government handled the case of a legal dispute that lasted years and years, and I think even then Minister Gorenak participated, but I can be wrong, but it's not that important anymore. It's more important how they saved him. A change for 11 years of torture. You all know the Robert Foykar case. It was a person who was accused of pedophilia. At the time of his trial, the case was constantly renewed, to a first-degree, second-degree and so on. In the meantime, the man got sick, moved in, in the midst of mental and physical and economic decay. In the end, the story ended with the then SDS government reaching into the story and making a mediation and for 6,000 euros in compensation and justifying the closing of the case for 11 years of all damage. I saw this gentleman at the end of his trial in that famous story that sang everyday and cried out how the justice system didn't work. But it is true that before this mediation took place, he threatened to burn himself before Parliament. And that's when she acted. But no, you don't act like that. That's the problem with what you're reading. Look, and once in the mirror, set up what you've actually done in the past. You're not blameless! Don't talk about talking about political elites. Let's make an example. Hypothetically, let's say you're in power next year. What will you say to yourself? Are you an elite? Are you going to be a political elite? No, no, no. What are you going to do? Proletarians in power or how? What are you going to say to yourself? You're gonna have to do something. We have a problem. Come on, please, that's funny what you're saying! You can do it on the tape, and you can do it at home. Maybe it'll help. I always tell my colleagues who are learning to interpret Slovenian Sign Language: “Look in the mirror, that’s the only way you’ll learn.” I don't know, buddy, if you're looking at yourself or listening to something to make mistakes. It's a good thing you don't think it's bad, far from it. Every good rhetorical person must first see what he is doing. Let's move on. How did this interpolation come about? That interpretation is meaningful makes sense only when it has content, of course, right. And more importantly, it works. And you are masters of interpeeling, content from year to year, but you can choose this right moment. Because I have previously proved to you that, in fact, the interpretation is so written that the following day after the appointment of the Minister, because it contains almost 80% of everything in the past, but not from this mandate, you have one serious problem, namely, to answer the question of what you have been waiting for three and a half years, but if you have already three and a half years and you know that this is the most despicable minister. What were you waiting for? You've been waiting for the right moment. Pojbič talks about small people who always suffer in this love of Slovenia. They always get hurt. When we had the CAP here, you voted against it. And with this, the CAP could hunt these big bastards. You don't say that. And, of course, you've withdrawn the possibility and today you're constantly yelling again about how this horror is going to happen if this CAP reappears in the system. Will everyone be happy with that? Will everyone be happy with that? I don't know. This is the right of every Member and Member who decides to face matter, content, debate, comment, amendments and, of course, compromises at the end. Ask the minister, he's satisfied with the final version. No! No! You know, it's always Parliament who, at the end of the day, gets a little edged up, changes the lyrics, and eventually even some kind of win-win that we have to fix after ourselves. Why? Because at a certain point, when we invest, that's it. But then it's always said that that minister passed this law. This is what the Members say most of the time, and we even name it after what it put in, but we have mutilated it ourselves. So, by the way, there was this famous amendment, which I, by the way, didn't support. And I'm sorry that one little thing makes it all go down in the end. And how did you invest? Of course you were waiting for the right time. All I'm saying is that you're only going to know that this interpolation is essentially just a pre-election instrument and nothing else. The entire Slovenian public knows that this interpretation will not be supported. Do you need to talk about interpolation? No, no, no. This is certainly not because you have said significantly better than today at at least ten meetings. Today, except for the three Members, the Third League itself speaks in the SDS. Which means you're not even giving serious attention to this interpretation anymore, but you're just adding them up to be as many as possible. On 26 September, the Council of State voted veto on the CAP, and on 27 September, you put in an interpellation. Who, today, is in control of the State Council’s ability to veto? SDS! Count how many of you are in there. Well, buddy Pojbich, maybe you don't know because you haven't figured it out yet, but O.K., anything's possible. This, of course, is a serious problem. Vice President, you're gonna give me a chance to calm them down. Can I? I was completely quiet at nine in the morning, and I didn't answer, and I didn't even cough because I was waiting for my turn. I think it's one of the most, I'll say, crazy interpretations like that. Then, I'll finish this job now. Mr Gorenak says the next sentence, which I liked the most – indeed, in this Parliament and in Slovenia, the historical memory of many has long disappeared – and he says: “How do you hope this minister to say things will fall?” He said he could say that. Comrade Gorenak, a lot of Slovenians were happy and pleased that the minister said that, but now let's ask what the problem might actually be. Can the minister say that or can't he? Interesting, my interpretation is he can say. You can say it! You know why? Because sometimes the minister has to give a very clear message about what he thinks about these things. The other thing is, if he wrote an e-mail and ordered the judges and I didn't know who else to do everything they had to do. That, I'm sorry, he didn't do that. But he gave one message, metaphorically, what he will do in systemic legislation, because this is the possibility he has to propose through the government, that of course he will try to disable such things, because it is simply unacceptable. But the problem is, of course, how everyone ultimately interprets it. Well, we know about the SDS that the interpretation is always the way they see it in their own world, in their own tiny bubble, and not least for the purposes of political discussion and the application of some of their views on certain specific issues. I still understand that. I still understand that! But to put this as one fact; and to tell me the article of the law, the minister must not say it. Tell me where it says it! Where does it say he can't say that? And then he goes on to say, in the following way, “this in the Yugoslavia Paradise, in the previous system, we would not dare to do this.” Dear colleague, Member Gorenak, since you are not over 20 years old, you know who Vinko Hafner is. And you know what Vinko Hafner did. He burned down. That's right, yeah. [[…]] Thus, he burned Milosevic with his finger, and that was a significantly worse act then, for that could have caused his head to fly away. But not by going directly to the judicial system, but by hitting the car, something else would have happened to him because you know what the situation was like in the previous regime. That's what they did, and that's what they did. So it is not your thesis that the Minister has allowed himself something that is still in the greatest dictatorships or I don't know what regimes they have not allowed. Worse things were allowed. But it is true that every minister has his own way. You know, one of them was digging in the foam, and they were jumping on TV, and one of them just made it clear how he felt about it, and he gave his message. That's it! Let's weigh it! This one got an interpolation, and he stepped down, and he went because of the afne guncal. It's a foam. I think we'll have more and more. You're already predicting a new interpolation. If I said last time we'd get two, you did it quickly because you had it planned. But in fact, we will deal with it, given that Mr Gorenak confirmed it yesterday, we will deal with a constitutional charge, which means we will talk from here to forever about everything. Because if an interpolation brings such nonsense, it's a constitutional accusation. I think the moment has come that if you are really discussing – now the colleague is not in the hall, which was the last speaker, said the following sentence: “Let’s do something together for Slovenia. Let's do something! Now I don't know if he was joking, whether he provoked, or whether he really thought someone would believe him that he meant it. I'm sorry, there's no will or need in this way. You better tell me, this is about power. We have to win the next term. Because if we do not win, our John will have to go, for this is really unacceptable to lose for the third time. And that's the problem. My colleague Eva Irgl did such a great job today, because I listened to her very carefully and very carefully, so that I think slowly that she already believes that she has a demigod for her boss, that she is so blameless, she spoke so well of him. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] No, no! What happened to the prince of darkness, that was the talk. Rather, why — and I will conclude with that. Because this interpolation is really based on all the pain and trauma your boss is experiencing. He made it very clear with a sentence in the previous term and this is dragging like the yoke of a snake: “I will fight with all the legal and political tools that I will have at my disposal.” He didn't have any politicians – he's got them now. And now he's doing it. But there is one great all-knowing and all-conspirational. Who'd have thought Mr. Klemenčič would be a minister someday? Of course, this interpolation is not to be supported. Not because the coalition works, and I don't know what else to do, and because every minister has to be protected, but because there really isn't any real content in this interpretation. We're wasting our time, our energy, and we're torturing ourselves. And every time someone goes out, he says, I can't take it anymore when it's over and you're all looking at the clock. But no offense, you set that time, you filed a request. Work to the end and work and eventually experience a negative result of your interpolation. That's it, thank you very much. But I expect a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes raised his hand first. Do you have a discussion or a replica? Then Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the advantage, the first to raise his hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, 'cause I'm gonna respect what it is. It's three minutes, of course. There is no third league in the SDS Group, that's League number one. But you have a league number 3, 4, 5 to 10. Those who don't say anything, I don't know what kind of league they are. Let's move on. Look when you were talking about Shilih. I don't care if he died in Isolah or in Slovenj Gradz or where he died. In fact, the fact is, in the Republic of Slovenia, by all means, he did not receive satisfaction from all instances – parents who filed an action. But the European Court gave him the right, so he gave it to his parents, and he had nothing to do with it, and he was bragging about it. So that's the same thing as putting on, I'll say, foreign feathers, like a real saying. Foyer. What's your problem with Foyer? For 10 years, the courts ruled that he was not guilty because he was not at the scene of the worst crime. He wasn't there. And the state gave him – do you know how much? Five thousand euros. [[advertising from the hall]] I signed, I know what I signed, don't talk nonsense. [[advertising from the hall]] Mah, don't talk nonsense! There may be other taxes, I don't know, but he physically got five grand for 10 years of suffering! And it is proper to apologize to him, if you mention him, but if you see him before a court of law, it is normal for him to go to those who have washed his name, who have actually put it where it belongs. As far as it's concerned, they're gonna be flying heads. Look, okay. Let the minister say today that if Fisher isn't finished by February, Zalar will be flying his head. Then it'll be equal. But if he doesn't say it, it's not right. Personally, I do not think he should say that and that the Prime Minister should replace him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. First, I must say that I agree here with Vinko Gorenak that you are really on that side from the third league ahead, so I would ask Mr Möderndorfer to tell us who those third-lingue MPs are in the SDS Group. [[…]] Please call them. The second thing, Mr Möderndorfer, is to tell you very clearly that you do not need mirrors. My colleague from Selnice near Mura from the Šentilj municipality said: “Please carry this to Mr. Möderndorfer so that he may withdraw somewhere else, because he simply does not belong where he sits.” That's what this gentleman told me, and I might tell you one day who said that. You were talking about "wrath". I ask you, where did this word come from, does it exist in the Slovenian language? Can you explain what that means? I'd ask you to explain that. Then you said that I only speak, "elite and corruption of small people". Yeah. I am really talking about this issue, because this is a key issue. Small people; we have first-class and second-class citizens and it is corruption that creates elites on the one hand and on the other. It would be nice to know. To conclude, you said that the SDS in the State Council has a majority and I'd ask you to go to the first grade of elementary school, and they'd teach you to add one plus one. When you learn to count one plus one, you'll know it's two — you think it's five. Then you'll know who has the majority in the State Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grims, get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u95	Your Honor, hello to all of you again! Yesterday was the world's day of tolerance. In view of Mr Möderndorfer's debate, he must have slept through it. I must say that in my own way, I am happy with all the insults and everything that he has said all along with the offending Mr Möderndorfer, that it is good that he is in the ruling coalition. However, I think that his neighbours in the parliamentary group and in the coalition are also aware that when you say that Mr Möderndorfer has replaced the political party again, this is at the same time an accurate description of yesterday and an accurate forecast of tomorrow. The knowledge of the law he presented, I must say, is very original. Among other things, let's say this flatization of the law and this extremely deep knowledge of what one man band is judge Möderndorfer, this is really interesting. Among other things, I quote, “everything is illegal what you do” when he spoke about our interpretation. Everything is illegal what you do. So far, illegality has been seen by the court in court proceedings, but Mr Möderndorfer has apparently done so on behalf of the SMC and the ruling coalition itself, that is indeed a great understanding of the rule of law. I must say that I thank you for this and now we understand much more easily what we are dealing with today after this presentation by Mr Möderndorfer, Member of the SMC. Member of SMC at the moment. What you know about time is there's an obvious lack of questions for the minister. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I will take advantage of this moment in particular to ask myself a few questions that I have been waiting for, not just here today – I expected someone to ask them, but not so far, but I will – but also for the last two days when I expected the Minister of Justice to come forward. I therefore ask him as Minister of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia: Mr Minister, is it necessary to respect the legislative administrative decisions and the duty of the authorities and institutions of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure that they are implemented within a reasonable time? Secondly, Mr Minister: Is it necessary to respect and implement within a reasonable period of time a judicial decision and it is the duty of the authorities and institutions of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything possible to implement it within a reasonable time? Third question: Is the Minister of Justice responsible to take care of and establish conditions for the enforcement of legal and, of course, judicial decisions within a reasonable time? As Minister and as part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And final question: Does the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or does any of the Members have the right to intervene directly in the enforcement of a legislative administrative decision or in the enforcement of a judicial decision? I would kindly ask that he then responds very clearly and unequivocally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready. Procedurally, please, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I would like to ask you, on a procedural basis now, to call on the Minister of Justice to respond to the questions raised twice now. At 10 a.m. we started this interview with the Minister of Justice, and I have not heard him say a word in the debate since then, and now I really demand that he answer my nine questions. Please call him politely, but now is really the time, it's 18 o'clock, and I really expect answers to my questions. They were clear that if the minister had nothing to hide, he would be able to answer them. Because you know, I guess you can hear me, I'm talking a little bit harder, I'm a little bit speechless, and I wouldn't like to hear back in two hours to answer these questions. Please, for my health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary heard you, of course. Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Sorry, Mr. Vice President, the minister didn't hear you, deaf as a cannon. Thank you. Look, actually, we've been dealing with interpolation here since 10:00. Sadly, the minister, however, is unable to stand up at this time and answer one question, a dilemma or something. He wasted a lot of time here walking out of the hall and back. In the eight hours we've been here, he's done it like 15 times. But to explain a matter, to answer a dilemma, debate, or anything else, he did not allow it — but it was for him. I believe he's convinced that the coalition will support him, but that's not the way it works. If the minister thus represents parliamentary democracy, in this way he represents the Ministry's cooperation with the National Assembly, he does not know the basic postulates of democracy. I also have to say that I'm actually surprised. Ever since I've been a Member of Parliament, it has never happened that the Minister would not have responded when interpreting. Never before! Even the minister of health, who is not a speaker’s pearl, tried twice or three times to get up and say what they had written to her and read it. The expert on law, the expert on corruption and so on, Mr Klemenčič – he cannot even stand up to say that Ambassador Grims is wrong that Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert is wrong that Eva Irgl is wrong that our fellow Members are wrong and that their claims are not correct. This is a demonstration of what functioning the SMC government has put on individual functions. Some of you here have talked a lot about the Minister's effectiveness, that how many laws he's drawn up, even there he's been spinning some sort of clues as to how many laws have been passed. However, if you look at the Government's regulatory programme for 2015, 2016 and 2017, it is said for this mandate, then you will find that the Minister submitted only 9 of the 20 laws planned to the National Assembly in 2015; that is to say, it has been highly planned, more than 100 % has been missing. He did not submit these laws to the National Assembly. It may be something else, but more than 50% of what he put into the Ministry's work plan and what the Government has confirmed is unrealised. If you take the year 2016: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia's norm programme, 19 laws have been mentioned in the programme to be proposed in 2016. Of these, five were realized. Although he proposed two other laws, some omissions, but what was written in the normative programme for 2016 – implemented 5 laws. One quarter. And Mr Minister and Coalition dare to speak and find that over – I don't know how – averagely effective. It's ineffective! If I take this year, 2017, it was foreseen in Programme 9 of the Laws. So far 5 realized – slightly more than half. So, where is this powerful efficiency? Where is the coherence between planning and implementation? Where's the consistency? Each production terminator in any factory with much lower education is able to more accurately programme daily production, weekly production, monthly and annual production as the Ministry of Justice, with all the complete headquarters you have there. You can check all this information. Look, it's on your network. The norm program is given every year by the National Assembly, sent by the Government usually before Christmas, and you can all review it. Here you have 35, 37 Members, and let each year hold hands, and do the hooks, what is done and what is not done. And the ministry can do that, the same project. This is whether we say made by Klemenčič or made by SMC or made by the government of SMC. That's your performance statement. To touch a few other things that are subject to interpretation. The key to interpolation is Mr Klemenčič's conduct at a time when the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption was, in our opinion, he did not, in public opinion, play his role in the detection, disclosure and monitoring of what was going on with the Iranian money laundering process. None of this was done. It's a sleazy document show. They agreed by consensus on the Commission that this document was faked, modified, processed and forwarded as it had been transmitted. The General Police Administration should also be informed at the same time under that Regulation. At the same time. Thus, this document – in addition to the one he received – should also inform the Director-General of the Police. He wasn't informed! There's no record of this happening. The General Police Administration, in accordance with the act you signed together with the Ministry of the Interior, the police and others, has signed it – the procedure has not been carried out in this way. Probably not by accident. Probably not by accident. Nor was it by chance that the documentation on the investigation of the bank hole to the investigative commission in the previous term would be submitted. That wasn't an accident. It wasn't an accident. If someone who was there representing himself as a defender before corruption acts commits an act by which the authority investigating this and established in accordance with the law and decree of the National Assembly is investigated, then the act of corruption by that chairman of the department is essentially also done. [[…]] It's part of systemic corruption. Contrary to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and also contrary to the Law on Integrity, the investigation of corrupt practices in the banking system was prevented. The Minister came with a document, waved like this in front of the MPs and didn't give it to him. At the time, he was the chairman of the KPK when he did. He didn't give it! And there was no one who could actually do anything. The President of the Government of Pahor did not react, Mr Türk did not react, the judiciary did not decide, and so on and the matter remained frozen. What is now the subject of the current parliamentary commission – and part of it are these documents related to money laundering, Iranian money – probably came to the National Assembly after a mistake. Since this is not part of the bank hole and is not part of it, we can say that the orders that the bank was obliged to give the documents to the National Assembly were made, but someone at the New Ljubljana Bank accidentally or knowingly gave it to the National Assembly and made it possible to disclose these acts. I don't know, now, mostly with regard to the bank's business, there are two former members of the KPK; the first president of the KPK, who takes care of the files, and the second president or deputy, the first vice-president, who is responsible for the compliance of operations in the New Ljubljana Bank. Richly rewarded! The third is the minister, who is politically balanced between the investigations, between the authorities in this country and so on. Look, it's unworthy that it's covered like this. It is unworthy that where the biggest problems have arisen, the biggest bank hole and also probably the largest money laundering in this country is held by those who have previously worked on the Commission to prevent corruption. And do nothing, that's worse. Don't do anything! If you are already employed there, you would expect to initiate all processes following a rapid procedure to clear up these matters, but you are probably in this hierarchy, set up in this chain only to stop, block, redirect, and so on and so forth. Whenever you ask any responsible person, can't he tell you because the investigation is going on or they're studying the matter or they remember any other term and so on. Things aren't working out. Time's running out. That something systematic to do to block this systemically also shows the interest of Mr Klemenčič, who proposed the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects with Major Consequences for this country, such as TES 6, a bank hole and so on, whose sole purpose of the law is to take the responsibility of an investigation by the National Parliamentary Investigation Commission and this is transferred to the executive authority, to the Government, which is actually implementing and sponsoring such projects. This is the only objective that Mr Klemenčič must have had in order to take this tool to Parliament and put it where you will once again be able to regulate all these processes of control, justification and so on. Thank God that the matter was stuck in the national assembly procedure, that the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service was the one that stopped the project! Thank God! Because otherwise TES 6 and all these other things, including the bank hole, would actually be the best projects, as you wrote down there in your response to interpolation, that your actions were brilliant and in fact above average quality in this case, as you have seen. Mr. Klemenčič, it is difficult for you to admit that you have any credibility in this country. Made by Goran Klemenčič is the non-declaration of the economic society with which you had it, and this to your committee. You didn't want to decide and issue reports on the abuse or use of airline tickets, including for members of the KPK Senate and their family members, you didn't want to report on the property situation, submit bills for the renovation of the house. It may not be far from realizing that you may have had something to do with tax havens. That's easy, too, with things to do. In short, it's hard to expect you to expose the grey eminence of banking. You have known them since 2011, 2012 or 2013, when you did this forensic investigation of the banking system. You probably know all the names and surnames, but to this day, Mr Klemenčič, you have not said one name of the grey eminence of banking. Not a single one! Which means you're the man who knows these things and doesn't want to be exposed. When you and your gentleman who sits on your right, on the Security Intelligence Commission, they knew nothing. Nothing. So the question is, what do officials do in their jobs if they don't know anything about such big things that they've been specifically investigating. Perhaps you would choose to pay back for that period of nonremembrance. That would be the least I could do. There is also a problem with the conduct of Mr Klemenčič in this mandate, when he is Minister. You know, if the minister declares that when a service is found by an important person in that country, he says he cannot act, and another, who is in the same procedure, that he will not act, then that means that he has used an institution called the personal interpretation of the law to such things. It is Mr Masleša and Mr Fischer in this case. That was a statement. With Mr Bavčar, who is now an ordinary citizen, a former politician, you have found that heads will fly. In these two cases, no head flew. You have not been able to make a statement on the suspension to former Attorney General Fischer – no head will fly. For example, with Mr Novic, who's been stuck there, I don't know, for two or three years – they say that without evidence he's been locked up or detained in an investigative prison – no head is likely to fly either. You can't do something or do something like that to get rid of or react. You have not put in place any control over the operation, nor the prosecution or investigating judges and so on, but after all these warnings and so on. Not to mention other matters that have been identified to you by other independent bodies, such as the Court of Auditors, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. And things have fallen because of human rights violations. Mr Minister, the interpretation – by telling the rest of my colleagues – is more than justifiable. It is a fundamental instrument of Parliament in relation to governments and when the mistakes of the government are detected, and it is not only when proposed by Mr Jani Möderndorfer or when proposed by some other opposition members of the day. Interpellation stands, has not been refused, is placed on the agenda. The legislative and legal service has not identified any shortcomings and is technically and substantively enforceable. What the Minister wrote in his reply is a simple pamphlet on the realisation of work and also on the conclusions on the Farrokh case in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. In short, I think it is time for the coalition to realize that certain things need to be put in the right place. Mr Klemenčič does not enjoy confidence and is not a person who would give the government a credible form in the field of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Dr. Dragan Matić. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u101	It has to be said that today the Minister is a tactic because he has two hours left. But still, look, Mr. Secretary [[…]] Well, I didn't get to tell Mr. Möderndorfer before, because those three minutes have passed. Look, if the minister says that the heads will fall and those words will be addressed to the judges, the Slovenian judiciary is silent. The President of the Supreme Court says nothing. However, if I in the National Assembly say anything at any session about justice, let's say I disagree with one or the other decision, or I speak before a court, for example, but this is a severe and unacceptable political pressure on justice for a person who is written by the former President of the Supreme Court. Look, it's not the President of the Supreme Court! Then it's a top-notch policy. If, of course, you will repeat the same words, just repeat the same words, there is no need, repeat the same word in the camera for the case of Fisher-Zalar, where you yourself found corruption, with your signature in fact – I am sure that your signature in the forecasting process has been very helpful. In fact, when the prosecutors examined it, whether it was a crime or not, your documentation was also available, where you said it was a corrupt act. But now that it's three or four months before the same thing gets older, your firm word is, "They're going to fly heads." But I don't expect you to say that because you say that when it suits you, not when it doesn't suit you. And whether the minister can say it or not, I don't think so, because earlier he spoke to Möderndorfer that he could say, in my opinion, no. Since this is, the Minister is only a kind of chairman – not in the legal sense – I am aware – but he is a minister, under whom all Slovenian judges are subject despite their status as judges. But the minister is quiet, of course. I would go back a little bit, to some of the things I talked about earlier when I talked about that situation and the Criminal Procedure Act, which relates to the state of the CAP and what happened in 1989. That's a long number of years now. You know, I'm getting better right now, if I know anything I said wrong, I said there that lawyers were already provided in socialism in 1989. The correct information is that there was an opportunity for lawyers in 1989. So much so that I can fix that part and stay with everything else – what I was saying about you being able to compete with Ivan Cat Matija. Let's move on. You know, you've really listed a whole series of things you've done, but there's still no answer, we've been going through a whole day, and it's been a few hours, and I still don't have an answer to what's going on with the European investigation task. Since the matter is not implemented in the Slovenian legal order, experts have warned me about this; foreign national authorities in relation to Slovenia and vice versa have their hands tied because we have not implemented a European investigation task into our legal order. And the deadline was already May this year. It's May this year! However, we all know that the implementation of one such regulation into our legal order usually in the National Assembly, if only to change these articles of marriage, is very easy to go through, usually with a majority of votes. That's what you're saying, I doubt you have anything to do to protect some criminal or what you're doing, I don't know, but you haven't implemented these things. It is even worse; you: human rights, human rights – and the Commissioner for Human Rights would like to be. Two years have passed since you failed to implement a directive that sets minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime! Yes, how will you be Commissioner for Human Rights? The first human rights defender in Europe and in his own country for two years — and how many days? A few more days, 16. 11. 2015 – you have not implemented a directive setting minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. I don't know, those who question you or test your fitness should be aware of it, at least in my opinion. Let's move on. Look, I've been talking about the PDO before, in the very beginning, in short, about the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. You've been vehemently predicting that what it is is is nothing. In 2011, Members adopted a law with most of them, regardless of coalition and opposition, in 2014, you assessed that there was nothing, because there were no results under this law, so you announced that you would change it and I was happy to say that, but that will be just one law that I will surely support. But, today is 2017, you are saying good-bye to the government, regardless of today's exit, but there is no, the law on the origin of the assets of illegal origin we simply do not have or have not fixed it, as you predicted. That we're more accurate. In the morning I invited all the Members – this time I am going to Mr. Vrtovec. My husband is dealing with a doctorate in science, as far as I can tell. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] How? Vatovec, yes, I'm sorry. Of course, Left. My husband treats the doctorate of science. Otherwise, I understand him, given that he does not have a job to continue, that he will use all means and weapons to be re-elected, I understand that. But if a man tells a lie and regrets it, it's unacceptable. I would never let that happen in that chair. Never! President, because you weren't up there when he said that. In the morning, I invited everyone here and the Minister to state one trial that would have taken place in a court of law, but he was not invited by Mr Janez Janš to avoid the service. Now look. You created some family and this gentleman, future unemployed or whatever, talked about buying him a mailbox to avoid and so on and so on. And to protect the convict with interpellation, he said so! At this point, any of you three should sit up there, turn it off, give him a warning, say, and now continue. Because we know exactly what it is, and we know exactly what time it is in this area. Now it's six, seven, what time it is, I don't know, but after all these hours, you all haven't found one case. Did you find him? You were just slapping! You've been slapping – we say that in Styria – and you've connected this mess to these two and Fisher to Zalar. Did you find one case or didn't find it? If you haven't found him, stop pecking. Is that right? But as for the Vatovac, he speaks of the convict as being clear to himself, as if there was no Constitutional Court in this country, which has broken the case and said, you have tried for something that is not a crime. I say this very loudly, not because of any support from the party's president, because this time I will not run and I don't care and I don't need his support. Don't say anything like that. I don't need his support. I'm retired. Let's move on. You predicted a lot of things when you left KPK. But remember the book Watch You or what it already said up there. Something like that. [[advertising from the hall]] Whatever. In short, you've been acting like a hero, like Martin Krapan of a modern guy, looking like he could do anything. You've even listed a series of things that need to be done to make this country better. I think two or three things I said were kind of funny, and a little weird, but I'm even for that letter that I cut a lot this morning, and I said it was okay. That's it. After all, this is what needs to be done in this country. But today, after four or five years since you signed that letter, when you left KPK, nothing has been done; but one consequence: you have become Minister. You became Minister of the Government, one of the last whose names came to the public, but there from the cabinet and around Mr. Cerar told me, but you know we didn't find another. But we didn't find another one, so you can't help. But there's nothing from that letter of yours. But it's true that you're getting people around you, like Vesna Pavlič Pivk, it's a dream team now or whatever it is, but it's got a black past. We should take a look — from phones, overtime, hours, vacations — nothing is good. And if it didn't count in the county court before, then it can't count for everyone else, probably there. And I don't know how this works here with you. Now look ahead; you know, with fire and sword. I don't have an answer again. Now it's the end of the debate, but you didn't answer. With fire and sword you will go to appreciaters, experts, interpreters, executors and administrators who, by the way, belong to justice, but are not a direct component and under your direct command, I could say, from the point of view of writing laws. I do not know what is done in this area, after eight hours of discussion we still do not have an answer. I only remember the doctor's apologies and what you've arranged. That's what I remember. I really don't remember anything else. The judges are mentors, who would probably be needed, which you have also predicted — none. You know, the perverse thing is, I'm going to say, I understand how any minister sitting there is feeling, because I was sitting there, too, I think one chair or two more to the left – on the right, if we look at it like that, Minister. [[…]] It's not nice. It's bad. I was an insulter, say that GGM, Gaspar Gaspard Misicic, when he said, "You are a disgrace to the Slovenian people." Today he flies after me on the street, "good day, good day, good day" and wonders why I turn away. Look, I know it's not nice to feel there, no one there feels good, just defend yourself in a way and with arguments, not that morning or yesterday, when you attacked it with skeletons in a bank in Maribor that we should have. I explained what it was about this morning. But I don't know if any new skeleton will become, 400 euros has already earned your wife, most of it in these years in state-owned companies and in Maribor. She can get you some information or whatever, if there's a skeleton in there. Yeah, because that's not the problem, everyone has to be responsible for their actions, not flaunting about certain acts that were not, kind of the heat and consequences of the heat and so on and so forth. In short, let me finish. According to the announcements here in the parliamentary groups, you will not be cleaning the office. Such is the forecast of the parliamentary groups, and so is the parliamentary reality. To be clear, the parliamentary reality is such, but anyone who leaves this hall and survives interpolation can leave in two ways: with a calm conscience, an open head and a look in the eyes; the other way is probably a look away and not in the eyes. I went the first way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, chairman. In today's rather torn-up, unrelated debate on all things, Mr Gorenak has always been in the stage of trying to be funny and funny, but he was more tragic than comical, especially in his insolent efforts to try to put out a theory of how he could instead of judging the courts, which the courts send to John Janša, they are obliged, which are so, a little more for a joke sent to John Janša and then he throws them into the meadows, pictures them and publishes them on Twitter. This is probably what Mr Gorenak advises him, which are the first species to respond to, which are those to do just as he works with them, and smiles; and laughs at my own assessment of himself, and in any case the state of Slovenia. If we are talking about the day of kindness mentioned by Mr Grims, I would ask Mr Grimes: Does Mr Gorenak think that Mr Gorenak's debate, when he made a heroic performance this morning, is something that is kind? It was some kind of political racism or I would say that Mr. Gorenak is a doctor of quasi-biological sciences. He also said that from here on, Members have left blood in the veins. This has already been repeated in another debate in July, when some left blood flows in my veins, similar to the blood of some predecessors from other mandates. And I would like to ask your opinion, Mr Grims: Is this an example of kindness? Is this something appropriate to discuss in this way? Last but not least, I could ask Mr Gorenak when his blood was replaced by blood from his veins, because he sometimes defended the Unipartite regime with a star on his cap and a pendrek behind his belt, and when his left blood was emptied of his veins and replaced with today's right-wing regime, if that was the way they were discussing it. Which, of course, I think is depressed. I have merely cited this as an example of where the debate can go, but this trend makes me personally sad. When Mr Gorenak finely dissected the Minister of Justice, he compared his hearing when Minister Klemenčič took up his post and pointed out all the things he did not carry out in his mandate and criticised him for his failure. At the beginning of his term of office, the Minister presented his view of justice and frankly said what needed to be changed in the judiciary and what was the challenge ahead of him in the future and failed to do everything, even though he was trying. From his performance, it was clear what he had accomplished. It is most welcome that there have been large-scale changes in this mandate, which give the judicial authorities more tools and at the same time less opportunities for an excuse for their own inefficiencies. This is the right approach for you to say at the beginning of your mandate what needs to be done and then to make an honest analysis and tell what has been done. With Mr Klemenčič, much has been done, that everything has not been done and that the judiciary still has a lot of reserves, and that is what he himself says and also admits, and this approach is correct. On the other hand, Mr Gorenak set an example for the Minister of the Interior, as she had cleverly read it, because she had made no promises at her hearing and now he can't ask her any questions, because she has made no promises, there are no commitments – she can't claim them. This is probably an example of a transparent fair policy which, at the beginning of the mandate, will be placed in the role of someone who can then, at the end of the mandate, be held accountable for his actions. You promise nothing, and then, according to Mr. Gorenak's theory, you're extremely smart and wise. That essential steps must be taken, what Mr Justice Minister has already said several times to improve the justice system, is clear to everyone, because if this justice system does not work, then we have a complex social space that does not work as it should. And we are always in doubt because if one branch of power does not work, even for the other two branches of government we cannot claim that they are healthy and that there is no corruption and that there are no politicians there who do not need to be persecuted or that there are no doubts such as in the case of Patrio, when, of course, Mr Janez Janša has not completed the procedure and we do not know today whether he has been convicted or forgiven because his procedure is outdated. And so we have doubts. For all eternity, we will question what could really happen if justice were effective when the trial came to an end. For the Supreme Court of Austria has ruled, I quote: “Hans R., a graduate engineer known for the criminal offence of bribery, so that the then President of the Slovenian Government, Ivan J., is, as a consequence, an official of another Member State through his mediator and personal friend Dr. Jožet Z., offering to prepare orders, will award him 900 000 euros and thus provide the benefit of the Prime Minister in the manner described in the judgment if he makes sure that the tender procedure for the elimination of free competition for P. will be adjusted and will receive an order.” A quote from the judgment of the Austrian Supreme Court. In Austria, a man sits in prison for the same matter, where we are never going to have an epilogue because of the inefficiency of justice. I'm not just gonna talk about Janez Jansa. A similar example is with Mr Zoran Jankovic. It's been five years, and there have been spectacular house investigations and investigations at the Magistrate's Office. They used to drive a bunch of files from his office. Do we have an epilogue of this procedure? No! No! Another very strong policy in the country and over which there is a shadow of doubt and that absurdity is even greater, Mr Jankovic himself has repeatedly said not to call but to challenge the judicial authorities to come and finish their work and to clarify matters around him. What's going on? We still have a shadow of doubt over another strong policy in this country. How can we say that justice is then successful and that it works as it should? We can see that it is not, but we cannot say that there have been no significant changes in this mandate, and this is in a positive direction. This trend, if it continues, then I hope and expect that in the future we will not have such judicial epilogues as I have just described them. It is similar when you talk about this remarkable case of the Pharmaceut. Here you're talking about how it's a terrible thing, how it's treated with evidence, how it's been eliminated and destroyed, and how it's something that's unacceptable. However, it should be remembered that it is in your mandate that you have made an effort in connection with Mr Kangler that this practice has taken place, as is currently reflected in the case of the Pharmaceutical. That's when the standard was established, and then you helped establish it, and now you come and yell that it's terrible when it comes to another case when it comes to Mr Jankovic. These are double criteria, in this way justice cannot be improved; when something is in your favor, it is justice, when something is not in your favor, then it is suddenly a crime. It is similar with the case concerning Mr Klemenčič. When the court found that the KPK decision was inadequate, of course, the Court of Justice was at the time and there was some sudden belief on the SDS that the courts existed and that they were being judged as they should be. But when it comes to a different outcome, which the SDS does not like, then we listen to a variety of complaints and various complaints, and then it all comes together and gets some epilogue in the cacophony, which then escalates into some cascading of interpretations against the Minister of Justice, who wants to impose all possible sins on a certain state of justice, which was created, as was beautifully statistically shown, long before his term. And when we look at the trends, we can be optimistic that we are going in the right direction, that we have not yet reached the desired state, but the person who is trying to go in this direction, who has done much in his mandate, is probably much more than any other predecessor in the last 10 years, this man deserves an interpretation. On the basis of the evidentiary statistics, everything you said about the SDS was rejected today. Of course, we will not support these interpretations in the SMC Group. We can only pay tribute to Minister Klemenčič for his efforts, and we hope that he will continue to do so until the end of his term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the procedure first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Vice President. A few minutes ago, something similar happened yesterday, and I'm talking about the fact that colleagues from SDS are going back to a very low level, or to a personal level, which, in my opinion, is unnecessary and also in the capacity of the President to protect the personal integrity of each individual member of the National Assembly, but this is, of course, another thing, we are accustomed to such methods. As far as the claim is concerned. Comrade Gorenak, Dr. Gorenak, not a doctor or something, as you claim, came to me earlier when I finished my position and said, “Give me an example!” Although I had a whole lot of other work today, but now a few minutes ago, one quick joke in Google, for example, throws out an immediate article The Trial starts right before Christmas – I think from 2015 – where it says: “In front of the judges” – I will not say the name – “is yesterday a sad bench in the Ljubljana District Court of Samova. In order to sit on it, SDS President Janez Janša was invited for alleged false charges and insulting charges” and so on. Such cases are still a pile, the fact is that what I said in my position is that in some way the applicants are playing the judicial system themselves, which they are criticising, on the other hand, to refrain. In short, if you want the justice system to be corrected, you should also have it respected or respected, including by going on a complaint and so on. As far as the rest is concerned, of course I will not go into more detail, I expect, and this is my procedural proposal to protect, in some way, or to protect, as presidents, the personal integrity of the Member, and of any member, at all, when it comes to such low and personal insults.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much. It was a partial abuse, but it was because [[…]] Procedurally, Branko Grimes is earlier. Procedurally or as a proponent? Okay. Then Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your task is to monitor the meeting and the meeting of the National Assembly and to take action in the event of any matter not related to the agenda item. Today we have the interpolation and responsibility of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič, if you have overlooked. The President of the Commission on Rules of Procedure, Mr Tašner Vatovec, President of the Commission on Rules of Procedure of the State Parliament, has used a discussion that is not related to today's interpretation and to the material he has received on the table. I suggest you give the gentleman a reminder, not just a warning that he has misused the rules of procedure, but a reminder. He is the one in the National Assembly in charge of the official duty to carry out matters in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please warn him because the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission must not be such a dilettante that he does not know what the topic of the agenda is. The same goes for your coalition MP, Mr Matić's deputy head of the SMC Group. Janez Janša – applies to one another and also to you, Mr Vice-President – is not the subject of interpretation. It's not an interpolation. You've received all the material we've submitted, and you've received the Minister's response. If you find Janez Janso anywhere, then you're artists, you read what's not in there. It grieves me, however, that it is not the President or the President, the current and former and the former, and those whom you have discussed, that you do not warn and do not want Mr Interpreter to answer the questions that we have been asked. That's the key problem. Such discourses, such bypasses, Mr Vice-President, are solely intended to divisive the debate and if the National Assembly works in such a way that, at some very specific point, it will discuss the moon and the moon and similar things, in a way that Mr President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure or a deputy head of the SMC Group, then it is difficult to be consistent in the National Assembly and to make some rational decisions. Since, in such a simple matter with only two points and four pages of explanation, they are not able to discuss the subject of the agenda, something is seriously wrong. I suggest you warn them, in fact, to give them a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Today a lot of things have been said, as I would say, outside of pure interpretation, not to mention that you were talking about an interpealer's wife who had nothing to do with the contents. So, much has been said, so, of course, it's hard for the chairman to interrupt each one individually and warn about every little thing. The part I'm thinking about, I told Dr. Vatov. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. President, I'm going to say this, if I can't argue with the MP right now, I must ask you to explain to him that he's wearing fake news in his hands. Now for the expert answer. It's a professional answer. Any bench in Slovenian courts may be empty when evidence against the accused is not directly carried out. This means, for example, that the Patrio case had two years of trial and — or how many? And during all that time, John Janša, the accused, did not have to sit there because there was no evidence against him, so this bench was empty. You know, I don't go into sociological things because I don't understand them anymore, but I do understand you a little bit more. Vice President, thank you, let him know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much. This was also, of course, a procedural abuse, Mr Tanko, and that was also the abuse of your colleague. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, you've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, Mr Klemenčič, in the introductory case, in one, two, three, fourth paragraph, concerning Irangate, wrote in reply, involved in the New Credit Bank Maribor and skeletons marked made by SDS. That's what you have on your page, I don't know, exactly two responses to the interpolation. Mr. Vice President, we didn't write anything in our interpretation about NKBM, we wrote about Irangate in NLB. And for a reason, colleagues warned that Mrs Nina Zidar Klemenčič has been a legal adviser to NKBM, a contractual legal adviser for many years. I'm sure you've come to understand from this debate that this is true. If not, Mr Klemenčič will deny and I do not know what skeletons made by SDS have in this response to interpolation, with skeletons in NKBM. This is not an item of the agenda and I warn you, Mr Vice-President, that you have not read the answer to the interpretation, so I have warned you what the response to the interpretation says and why the debate went in this direction. My wife has a direct connection because there's a contractual partner. He is a contractual partner with If you go to Erar or to the Supervisor or anything else, you will see that this is also not for free, that contractual advisor. [[…]] With regard to the comments, Mr Vice-President, whom you allow, I suggest that they are consistent with what is written in the response to interpolation or in interpolation without inventing anything and trying to justify it. Be, I'll say, consistent with the material attached to this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u112	This, of course, was an abuse. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u113	I don't even know what to say anymore, Mr Vice President. But will you tell me what it was now? I'm a little confused, and I don't know what I've been listening to. I don't know if it was a debate or if it was a replica, because it certainly wasn't. There had to be something. Can you tell me because you run this session and because you didn't intervene, what was it? Indeed, we must once establish order. But the Order doesn't stand for nothing to be done. Because if nothing is done, it doesn't mean you've run away from the truth, but it does mean you're not conducting a session. Please, I'd like to hear it procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u114	This means, of course, that the person, the President, is waiting to be a procedural proposal in the end, but he is not. That's the difference now, of course, because in the middle of this, of course, you tolerate it for a while. [[…]] Now, really, there's only one more procedural Dr. Tashner Vatovec, and then we'll finish and go on with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Vice President. My procedural proposal would be very similar to what Jani has now proposed or to maintain order at this meeting. This also means that you interrupt procedures that are not. It is said that the last performance of colleague Tanka was something like this, as well as a colleague of Gorenak, who, in some way, tried to communicate with me, so that, of course, also colleague Tanko, as well as colleague Gorenak, deceive that I will not say that you are lying like a dog running. First thing, my friend Tanko knows I haven't even discussed it today. So talking about discussing things that aren't on the agenda is simply a diversion. However, I represented the position of the parliamentary group in which we showed the duality of the SDS; the duality when they preach, on the one hand, about how bad things are in justice – which, of course, we can also agree to a certain extent. On the other hand, this same judiciary is playing day after day, and their client’s president is doing so most eminently, including by mail collectors or by failing to lift mail if you want. This is nothing more than a very skilled court appearance with the help of expensive lawyers. That's a fact, and stop fooling around! Please, Vice President, in these cases, intervene.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u116	This was also, of course, a debate, it was not procedural, so it is an abuse and therefore we will stop procedurally. Let's get to the bottom of the debate. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] No, we'll finish because basically everyone [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] No, no, no. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally. Here you go, but it'll be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I didn't get an answer, Vice President of the National Assembly. In fact, I warn you many times, you do the same thing, and it's a matter of procedural determination that says you don't have to wait until the end to spend three minutes doing the debate, and you find out after three minutes that it wasn't procedural and that it was an abuse. You can already find out in the middle of the process that this is an abuse and stop this debate and the polarization and what else I know. I don't know what happens to you there when you're sitting in that chair. You all get some avreola and some fear of not knowing who. Start to conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's all I'm asking! It's procedural, which is what I'm doing now, because I'm not discussing it with anyone. And I warn you, we stick to our holy letter, which we have here, which applies only to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u118	Good. I'll take care of it. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'd like you to warn your colleague this time what they are, the United Left, the Left, I don't know what they are anymore. I don't think so. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u120	It'll definitely be a crucifixion. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u121	It's procedural. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u122	♪ 'Cause I'm ♪ [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u123	Please, can I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u124	I'm sorry to intrude on you, but I already told him that he abused you if that's what you wanted to say. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u125	No, no, no! How do you put your words in my mouth, Chairman? Calm the debate when it is necessary when someone is yelling here in the National Assembly, and leave when someone wants to submit a procedural report. Now, count my time. Clearly, there has been an abuse. You didn't make a note of that. Now, once again, I ask you to remind your fellow Member that he is abusing not only the rules of procedure, but also the National Assembly for giving a literal debate and some views during the course of the proceedings. And once again, I'm going to tell you now, because maybe when you tell him, he'll understand. John Janša was always in court when this was necessary, while a colleague from the same parliamentary group prevented the enforcement of the decisions of the courts, respected, and therefore took advantage of the National Assembly. That's how it is. So much for the Left and so much for who has double standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u126	This part was an abuse. But in the first part, no, but I did, and I said, I'm not going to give anyone another word procedurally, because you're all discussing essentially, maybe except for [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Mag. Goran Klemenčič has a conclusion. No, because you've abused so many times, I haven't given you any reminders, but I expected you to stop what's not the procedure. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I'm really not lucky. You've been waiting so hard to hear from me, and then so many procedural questions. Good. I didn't pick up during the day. There are several reasons for that. Firstly, I stand here as Minister of Justice, not as a man, not as President of the KPK, not as a brother-in-law, not as a father-in-law, I do not know what else, and not as a candidate for the European Commissioner for Human Rights, and I only answer in this part as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned. The next thing I gave to myself and my colleagues and also to the coalition Members when I came here to respond only to arguments, not to provocations, not to lies, to untruths or to things that are not related to interpretation. So I'm left with relatively little to respond to. There's another important reason. I have responded very extensively, we have responded in response to the interpretation and you have repeated today the questions we have discussed so many times. We are the ministry that has received more than 300 questions in the last three years. I was sitting, I think, at the 28th extraordinary committee meetings and more plenary sessions, you had a mini-interpellation against me in 2015, which also lasted, I think, over ten hours. I can't help and I don't have the power anymore or the knowledge that I'd like to make an argument about trying to reject and stress the fact that someone doesn't want to see them. I can understand why not, but that doesn't mean they're not there. However, some things are, say, new and I would like to answer them briefly. Dr. Gorenak first. You yourself said that when you were yourself intertwined, you were also treated with insults. Thank God, that was saved for me today — wasn't it? The second thing is, you asked what it was like to implement different directives. The directive on the European task, the prison mandate, is in the final stage of preparation, inter-resortically coordinated, and will reach the National Assembly by the time. The Victims Directive was one of the key parts of the CAP that was rejected here, and this is also one of the important reasons why we want and insist that it be reviewed. Pull over. When we were talking about the PDO, he was the subject of constitutional and judicial proceedings. You didn't know what the decision was going to be. THE law, as it is, has been over it for many years the sword of the Demoncle over whether he will survive a constitutional judgment or not. He survived it, and that's just, I think, eight or nine months ago. That is why we have not gone into its changes, but we have done much to make its implementation more effective; we have done so through the human resources strengthening of the prosecution, through the legal establishment of a special section of the illegal property benefit in the State Prosecutor's Office and through the informationisation of the prosecution. If that's what we want to see, whether you want to see it or not. I'm not happy to mention the word Shilih again. That's not the point, Dr. Gorenak. But here it is, however, that we must be honest with our family. It's not about bragging about it, but it's not fair, it's up to the European Court of Human Rights, we have nothing to do with it. That was the main problem, Dr. Gorenak. The European Court of Justice ruled many years ago that this family had not received an effective investigation into the death of its son, and returned the case to the Slovenian legal mills. And they were spinning and turning around and going to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court came back to the case and here we intervened. It's not your government, but you were sitting in two when you could, because this thing is too long. Of course, we did it because of the decision of the European Court of Justice, but we were the first to make that decision, which included and cut the Gordy knot. Greater transparency of disciplinary procedures of all the builders, that I promised them and that they were not. So! The 48 pages of the reply explain where; even in the case of lawyers, by amending the Law on Lawyers, we were asked to make public, and even to the Constitutional Court, we were asked to do so. The full reform of experts and valuers with fire and sword – the changes were already with the amendment of the Courts Act in 2015, when we removed experts and valuers and interpreters from the market. They went to the Constitutional Court for this and the Constitutional Court confirmed it. It was one of the first steps. Secondly, it is again written on these 48 pages that it is in the final stage of preparation, currently in the professional and public debate, a comprehensive and first law on experts, valuers and interpreters. Because now they did not have their own legislation, except as it was in the Law on Courts, and thus were serious problems. So short on that. Ms Dimičev also mentioned in her discussion that they had proposed a law to extend the number of prosecutors in the Special Prosecutor's Office. I think it was a mistake because she said that at least 20 prosecutors would work there. See, there are now 38 prosecutors already employed there, and it has been this government that has carried out the greatest reinforcement of the state's prosecution since its independence. It has also been mentioned several times, even by members of the coalition, I believe that even well-intentionedly, I understand that there is also some disappointment, and I am disappointed that we do not yet have amended anti-corruption legislation. This authority came to the Ministry of Justice a good year ago, last September, it was previously in the domain of another department, we have prepared a novel, we have coordinated it even with civil society and, of course, with the resources, and it is now four months in coalition coordination. I hope that we will gather the courage to see it in the parliamentary bench before the end of this term. Dr. Gorenak also mentioned what happened to DIS, mentioned in that letter of resignation, seems to be changed, but well, not even by the previous government, but also by the Brotherhood's government after our resignation. SDH – and by the way, and now there are contracts and donations and so on in public companies, yes. SDH is also subject to the SDH Act with business compliance and so on. A lot of that has come true, something, it has to be admitted, since the Brotherly Government, something has been done by us. But the system's investigations have come to an infamous end. Next thing. I explained in my opening statement, and in particular in response to the interpretation, the role of the KPK, me and myself personally with regard to the so-called Irangate. But in the debate itself today, so many additional deceptions and untruths have been said, even though I said I would not respond to them, I still have to respond to some of them. The first thing that is healthy for sure, if I may say so, you have advocated that we acted unlawfully and in contravention of an agreement at that time and so on and that this has affected the procedures. I don't know if you've ever read this agreement. This is an agreement signed by my predecessor at the KPK and acted under the old law, the Anti-Corruption Act, the ZIntPK was not at all at that time, and this agreement ceased to apply with the ZIntPK, because the ZIntPK also established an institution of covert applicants and itself provided a legal basis for the provision of such information, especially in the case of hidden applicants. How Member Mahnic allowed himself to say that he said that we had given up an anonymity, something that looked like an anonymous one – I don't know. If that is what the person actually interviewed on the committee said, I would like to – I hope to know this once because he has said the truth and I do not believe that I could be responsible for it at the final stage. We handed over the head and signature document, only those parts that could be exposed to the covert applicant were removed. You all know that, as I have pointed out, you do not want to hear this and I cannot help you if you do not want to hear it, even though it is in the documents – that today it is clear that the document has been delivered, that it has not been able to have a key impact on police conduct, but that the police have already had much more detailed documents by the Anti-Money Laundering Office – by the way, they have also been partially lost, not at the Anti-Money Laundering Office – and the Sova report and then other documents. We only learned this at the KPK, essentially, substantially later. I repeat, one thing that is relatively clear in my eyes today, and for which there is also documentation, which you have, in fact, given to your investigative commissions, is also a secret sign and you did not want to remove it, although we have called you to do so, is another thing, but for the time being it is quite clear that at least the UPPDs are, say, mostly done their work and for the rest we will see. Then, honourable Member Eva Irgle. I'm gonna start like this because I know you've been waiting a long time for my answer. It only saddens me, you know, you've asked me these questions five times, almost the same set of questions. But once we've actually had, we'll say, mini-interpellation. In short, if the submenus you come from were real, I'd tell you, no such person can be a minister. But you're talking about things that don't hold. If you expect me to spend the next two hours convincing you about what we've been sitting here for 10 hours and where I've been with documents, evidence, and so on, I can't do that. Bank crime. But here we will relatively agree in many parts. I hope I don't get provoked. Banking crime; this was talked about by both Member Horvat and Anja Bah Žibert, as well as by many others. Indeed, the Anti-Corruption Commission was one of the first to issue a report on the situation in this area. Essentially, we could no longer do so. I was hoping that, as Minister of Justice, I can honestly say here, I could do more to make all the policy more so that the authorities of detection and prosecution would do more. But you need the political will to do it, because judging and suing and detecting none of us here can do it in place of the authorities responsible. What can we do? We can change the law. We have changed legislation in the field of material law. It would be much easier to prosecute banking crime if KZ-1, which was adopted during the Janša government, did not demand direct intent. Direct intent on mistrust in business. We were the first government to change that. Of course, it can't apply to back. The CAP contained your proposals. Dr. Logar's deposits and his commission. I've listened in this room so many times why you don't follow Icelandic patterns. When we brought these solutions to the table, there were other problems. Frankly; I was hoping that we would be able to judge, sue and persecute about these solutions, which are the only leverage that the executive branch and the legislative branch of power have, because we cannot sue and prosecute, which, of course, is the right thing for us to be able to conclude our hands here. Why not? Everyone can have their own theory. So I still hope that we will take this step here, because otherwise things will not improve in this area. We did, as I said, what was possible in the field of legislation; we did what was possible in the area of finance. For long and wide, specifically, with numbers you have this reasoned back on 48 pages. How we strengthened the D.A.'s office, why we put more money into IT and so on. Personnel — I already said that — and education. Do you know how many educations have been for prosecutors and judges in the field of economic crime in the last 15 years? Focused education, before this term? Nothing. Nothing! And what is even more sad is that the prosecutors have never proposed, except in any interview, but their representatives in the professional council of the Centre for Education in Justice have unfortunately not proposed them. Those who happened last year and this year were also proposed by the Ministry of Justice. And – what Mr Horvat also said – I followed what we found at the KPK, and I also developed some resentment when, let's say, at the government, I objected to the appointment of certain supervisors to the NLB because of some of the things that I, say, knew from my previous job. And we've handed over a lot of material to the NPU and the U.S. Attorney General. We've submitted dozens of allegations of crimes, invited them to KPK, where they collected data where they could choose data, and here unfortunately the powers of the minister or anyone else in the government end. I'm going to conclude with another matter that shows how it was today or I'm going to repeat what I said at the beginning. Like many of you, I am not satisfied with the situation in Slovenian justice. It is positive that even many in Slovenian justice are not satisfied with the situation in Slovenian justice as a whole, I am not just talking about the judiciary. This is a good sign because they want change, but the critical mass may not yet be enough to be, but, of course, they should not be under the political pressure of a generalised community on criminal justice all the time. I also understand that the Minister of Justice is somehow the face of this system. Although, you know, prosecutors are independent, the judges are independent. And that's right. In this sense, we must all do more together, as we say. However, unlike an average citizen who cannot know all the locksmiths of the division of power, it is irresponsible for you to listen in this Chamber: How the Minister in your mandate has decided that; the Minister, in your mandate, has done so. I have not put one judge in my life, but you have many because in the National Assembly you elect them as one of the few countries in Europe. Let me show you the paradox of your statements. I think your Member Beznik, who appointed one particular judge in Maribor, was appalled at what this man could have been named. I do not know whether Mr Breznik was a Member of the previous term. If he was not – I'm sorry, in 2004-2008. This judge was appointed under your government. Members, we have obtained an MVK magnetogram, all Members, the then SDS, NSI and then the Slovenian People's Party, you supported it at the MVK and later in Parliament, and you can't say that you didn't know where this gentleman was previously employed because you knew him and he was part of their CV. But when he decides something you don't like, it's terrible – who named him, how could he have named him, why haven't they replaced him yet? You set it up! To all members of the coalition, especially those who have spoken, I sincerely and deeply thank you for your statements that have allowed me to maintain peaceful blood today, and I hope that I have defended this interpellation with dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u128	The text shall be by the representative of the interpellations proposer, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u129	Your Honor! The mockery of the National Assembly, when exercising its control function, is an insult not only to those who are here, but above all to citizens and citizens. Today, more than 10 specific, clear, unequivocal questions have been addressed to the minister. He didn't answer either one of them. Not one! This is an insult to this national assembly, ladies and gentlemen, and an insult to all the voters and voters who elected us to the National Assembly. This is totally unacceptable. Mr President, they've been leading the session all day, everyone you've led, by conducting it on a biased basis. You've warned one of them, you've allowed debates to go on forever. It was just a matter of stepping up. You never once invited the Minister to speak to answer any questions. He used his closing word to avoid all specific issues, to avoid all specific explanations and, of course, to limit himself to what he was told at that time. For this reason, I repeat that we would like very clear answers, for example, on the question, I will not repeat them all, but at least on whether someone, such as the President of the Government or any of the Members and Members, can be involved in the enforcement of a judicial decision or a legal decision by the administrative authority of the Republic of Slovenia. Does he have a legal basis for this? If he does not have it, what does such an act mean? The Penal Code, I presume, Mr. Secretary needs to know. When it comes to questions as to how he got into this interpretation, it is already perfect for him to communicate. Today, among other things, we have heard from the coalition that we have also hanged the KPK story and the suspicion of money laundering and the purchase of weapons of mass destruction, namely proliferation and terrorism, for the value of billions of euros in the New Ljubljana Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the Minister who hung himself because none of us would have asked him anything about the fact that he himself had convened a press conference in June and made a statement, for all of us who had forgotten it, “I think that in 2011 we were informed by whistleblower of some secret document of the Bank of Slovenia, which we also transmitted in the form of a notice or a criminal complaint to the competent authorities”, the POP TV magnetogram 24 hours in the evening, 15. 6. 2017, minute 22:02. That's what you say when you talk about who hanged someone, please be at least right enough to address the right address. The second thing that is quite equally upside down was today's interpretation that we are instilling the NKBM to Mr Minister. Dear Members, honourable Members of the Coalition, we have proposed an investigator to investigate the banking system that investigates all these things, that skeletons fall out of closets and address the NKBM in particular, and that Mr Minister is at a press conference yesterday, and then, of course, this thing opened up in today's debate. Mr. Secretary, it's a matter of principles. Then you say, if then our argument was that we had warned that, in fact, this skeleton could be solved by the minister as a family, because it was enough to look at who the lawyer was at the NKBM for all these years, according to some figures, it was 440 thousand euros, secondly by 183 thousand euros – this lower I think they published Slovenian news, I found it on the Internet, you can look for it, look at Erar, and it can draw conclusions yourself, but not say that we opened it. But as for what the chairman did earlier when he said that this could not be a topic; for the first time, the Minister opened the topic himself; for the second time, when it comes to these standards, ladies and gentlemen, look at the Swiss principle of the exercise of responsibility when it comes to the responsibility of ministers. A few years ago, there was a story with Minister Kopp, whose husband was diagnosed with domestic information abuse in a company where he was employed. That is why, as I recall, the Minister of Justice withdrew immediately to allow for a neutral investigation without any suspicion of influence. There was only a suspicion of an act, and the indications were, and the minister immediately withdrew and called for an investigation because it was the standard of responsibility, the Swiss standard. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why Switzerland is. But as for our responsibility, we can look at each other all day today. And not then to say that this can't be the subject of debate, it was opened by the Minister himself, I showed what the standard was in Switzerland, you can check it out, the story on the Internet, but you probably know it anyway. Now back to today's subject. If Slovenia were a democratic country in which the principle of responsibility, which, by the way, was referred to by the entire ruling coalition when it was put in place and explicitly wrote this down as one of its objectives and foundations, and so on and publicly represented, then this responsibility would no doubt have been established here. At the latest, it would certainly be in the case of that indescribable legal machination, which represents the exclusion and subsequent destruction of all evidence in the bribery charge, as officially stated, or the substantive suspicion of sexual abuse in relation to Ljubljana's mayor, Zoran Jankovic. This is where justice was canceled as a whole. Then, of course, as always in Slovenia, there was a responsibility from one another, that it was understood differently, that that deadline was understood to be instructive, and that it had already been breached, and that it even allowed it twice by its judgment, or that it had been decided by a higher court, and that it was legal and that everyone relied on it to continue to do so, and that was therefore not controlled. Well, this time it's made a different decision, and that's why, look, a miracle, exactly what happened with the Ljubljana mayor. The Court will never be able to determine whether a crime such as liability has actually been committed will not be able to lay down any penalty, nothing because all the evidence has been eliminated and destroyed. This is the most beautiful case, unfortunately a very sad case that should never have happened, how justice does not work. And now the question of responsibility is raised: the Minister has an objective and subjective responsibility. An objective responsibility is the responsibility under the Government Act, under which the Minister is responsible for the situation in the field covered by his ministry. That's what they call justice in the broadest sense of the word as a whole. This situation in this case is catastrophic. We've seen him completely cancel the entire justice system, he's not at this point, it's important whether he's more guilty or more guilty. Easy, the system's down. What is the impression of all citizens and citizens? That we are once again witnessing the division into first-class citizens, who are allowed all those for whom, if not otherwise, all hands are missed and all the evidence is destroyed, by the way, they are still forgiven for some 16 million Euros of debt, virtually at the same time, and continue to do so. However, if someone is a second-class citizen, we have some cases in Slovenian justice, which are examples of such draconian judgments that it is difficult for an ordinary person to understand how this is even possible. For some 150 euros or about the same amount, the house is confiscated and sold at auction – this is Slovenian justice. Or about 200, 300 euros in bribes is sentenced to three years in prison. Three years! There are millions here, and for everyone, and for the listeners, and for the suspicion of bribery, nothing happens. The court won't be able to judge, it won't be able to determine the guilt. The justice system has failed. Who is responsible for this objectively? Under the law, the Minister of Justice. This is said to be the normal country in which at least one minimum standard of liability would apply, the Minister would have resigned immediately for that reason alone. But if not, I would suggest his replacement as Prime Minister. None of this has happened, and that is why we are actually discussing here today. But it's one element that's going to be in your eyes. This is the first interpellation I remember in the last period that the President of the Government did not come to support his minister. He says a lot of things in his own way. I'm sure he has other obligations, I believe he has them, but it's always a weighting of what you give priority to. If he wanted to give the minister a head start, I'd give it to him. He's not. And he certainly knows why. Think about it, too. Interpellation itself is based on two facts. Firstly, the Minister has deceived the public with regard to his conduct with the Commission to prevent corruption in connection with the investigation of billions of Euros of Iranian money payments through the New Ljubljana Bank on the suspicion of money laundering, proliferation, i.e. the purchase of weapons of mass destruction, and the financing of terrorism, and other actions and positions of the Minister in the exercise of a political function which result in lost confidence in the role of the Minister and in the judicial institution. Why is this so important? There are two facts: trust in institutions is the foundation of democracy. In Slovenia, that's a lot of limping. Especially is the lack of confidence in justice, among the lowest. This is also what the minister himself said, in Slovenia, and this is a problem. For if I quote the dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Helsinki: “If there is no confidence in justice, the rule of law does not work.” Unfortunately, this has also been very clear in this debate today. The second problem is the failure to prepare legislation in the field of justice, which would allow for an integrated reform of justice and other urgent changes that would bring the Republic of Slovenia closer to the values, standards and standards of the European Union. Here, see, it is a question of whether certain fundamental principles are respected, which are enforced by law and justice everywhere in the democratic world, or whether this is not respected. Many of these principles are also legally written in the form of standards, either in laws or in other regulations, regulations and so on, which regulate the field of justice as a whole. Where to come, if this is not taken into account and it is not respected, let this time be a slightly more concrete case, which we have already discussed a lot today. It is a matter of actions, actions, concrete actions, in one particular case in the trial of Mr Branko Masleš. Branko Masleša was President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and according to the law in force, he is the only minister who can begin the procedure for his replacement. Among the terms of the resolution, the law, watch out, quote, explicitly defines the following: “... if, by breach of the rules or otherwise, the principle of the independence of judges in the trial is reversed.” So the existence of independence, which also concerns impartiality; the appearance of impartiality, which law repeatedly stresses. Anyone who has ever studied law, either on a diplomatic or postgraduate level, knows the importance of this in justice. For the appearance of impartiality depends basically on confidence in the justice system as a whole. On the other hand, as we have heard before, the functioning of the rule of law as a whole also depends. If that is not the case, the legal state, as the dean of the Helsinki Law School said, cannot function, does not work. The existence of this condition was simply silent when we asked why he did not propose a replacement. It's like there's no marriage, but there is. You can check this for yourself. In doing so, it would be necessary to recall that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is in its decision of 20. 40. 2015, paragraph 49, if you wish, I quote, "that the judicial system must maintain the appearance of impartiality, because otherwise such confidence in the impartiality of the court in general may be compromised." In that decision, paragraphs 46 to 54 of the Constitutional Court found and justified constitutionally that in the decision of the Senate of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of Patria, I quote, “a clear violation of the principle of impartiality of the Court, in an objective sense, which is the basis for public confidence in an independent court.” This was the case, the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen, for Branka Masleše's speech on the days of lawyers or on the days of the Slovenian Court of Justice on 6. 6. 2014 and also a statement from the notary certified record of two credible witnesses on Mr Branko Masleš's statements. The conduct of the current minister, who, of course, has not done anything despite this finding by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, is, of course, only possible to understand in the light of Roman law, which says: Whoever is silent, agrees. Therefore, it follows that the Minister of Mag. Goran Klemenčič not only tolerates but apparently also supports systematically, even by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the violation of human rights. Such a person is completely unfit to serve as a justice minister. This follows from the judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia when it is placed in the light of the legislation in force and the concrete conduct of the action – i.e. non-action – of the Minister in that case. If the Constitutional Court has found that the principle of the appearance of impartiality has been violated in such a way by a particular person, it has found a concrete violation, then the Minister should undoubtedly act. It's his duty, it's not just his right anymore. In this case, it is certainly a duty. What is the course of action if someone abandons the obligation to act, however, by means of the Integrity Act? If someone in office abandons his duty, it is corruption, ladies and gentlemen. In the present case, it is certain that it was in favour of the one who continued to serve, although the Constitutional Court found that it violated the appearance of impartiality as one of the foundations of the judicial system. This is corruption, ladies and gentlemen. You have a corrupt justice minister; therefore, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court in the light of the law. This should also be enough for yourself again to press the release button, so for interpolation. If we move on. When it comes to the application of those standards, the implementation of standards, the implementation, if you want, of European directives and everything else, as far as Slovenia is concerned, has been delayed. One of them was today. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u130	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u131	already stated, but I would like to stress it in particular at the end, because it is a disgrace. [[…]] For it is necessary to implement at least minimum standards for victims of crime – for victims, ladies and gentlemen! - and he missed it for two years. Now he's saying, well, he's getting ready, he was in some marriage that fell. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something you need to think about first. If this were the only thing that would not have been added to it, of course, that law could have been passed a long time ago, it could have been proposed two years earlier, because it would only be for the implementation of something good, which is what the European Union rightly expects of us. But this was not done because it did not want to be done, probably so that, as it is called, another thing would be smuggled along with it, which stirs up the public. The result was that there was a change to the Criminal Procedure Act, contrary to – watch out! — with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, contrary to the Bar, contrary to the professors of criminal law, contrary to the professional public. Literally against everything. Is this in line with the principles that this National Assembly has adopted even as a standard, in order to harmonise with all stakeholders any legal act that directly affects those stakeholders, regulates their work, their competences and that, of course, their opinion is taken into account? This is the standard covered by the special resolution adopted by the National Assembly. The answer, of course, is no. Each and every one of you knows very well. Is this in line with the Minister's announcement at the hearing before he was confirmed as Minister, which is the basis for his confirmation to the Minister that he will specifically coordinate all legal acts with all stakeholders? To coordinate them with the authorities, to coordinate them with the court, with the Supreme Court, with the prosecution, with the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, with everything. That's what he emphasized. And of course I did. If someone violates what was chosen on the basis of which he was elected, then his resolution is clearly right for all of you, much more justified. Apparently Dr. Cerar knows very well why he's not here today. When it comes to questions about the remaining predictions. I will release the one with fire and sword, because it is a prediction that probably does not judge the judiciary very much, but it certainly says a lot about how the fire and the sword turned into smoke and mist, but also other things that the minister has predicted and would actually intervene in the judiciary; even those that you yourself wrote in the coalition agreement that the Government has given in the announcement of its work on the mandate of the judges with regard to supervision, with regard to everything else – it has not been from anywhere and they have not! And the question now that we're predicting something else is going to be, if you're watching it happen with the work of the National Assembly, the end is coming, irrevocably. April of the month will be the last session. Regular procedures and usually things are cut down deeper, which are systemic changes, are taken on a regular basis. We're not in a war state! But the regular procedure requires several months, which means that virtually after the regular procedure at this time it is almost impossible to pass the most demanding laws, let alone all the other changes that have been announced, and it is a waste of time, for a lost opportunity, for what violates the development of the Republic of Slovenia. For it is necessary to be aware that the situation in justice is also the development problem of Slovenia. We have been repeatedly warned about this in the past. Even if something is improving now, this does not mean that things are appropriate and in line with some European standards and standards. The flight and flight procedures are still being carried out, even if they are a little shorter. It's still complicated at all levels, and there are still cases where individual entrepreneurs experience that because of some of the procedures in which they get involved, or financial disciplines, other things, they run into someone who cheats them and they have to go into a lawsuit, whatever the case, they're looking for the right to go through the courts for as long as their business is failing, and then the right to go on the road, as constitutional law says, is not a right, is a new injustice. Above all, you must be aware that Slovenia is not a lonely island. Slovenia is viewed from abroad by potential partners, other countries, potential financiers and they see what is happening in us. They see how we still have individual or individual judges dancing under the red star, because, by the way, it is still in conflict with the principles and rules that apply in justice – but no one gets hurt. Who's responsible for this? Minister of Justice! For according to the law he is responsible, subjective and objective, for the state which covers him. And then what investors do when they see all of this when they see this slow operation of the courts, inefficiency, sometimes very strange trial, which is not in line with European standards, such behavior of individual judges and judges – they go elsewhere, and Slovenia loses development opportunities, Slovenia loses good, quality jobs, Slovenia loses youth going abroad because it sees a greater opportunity. The situation in justice is also one of the fundamental development problems of the country of Slovenia. Who is responsible for this situation? If I took over yesterday's term, I'm sure it wasn't the minister. However, if the end of the term is near, the situation is as it is, and the Minister of Justice is undoubtedly responsible. I will repeat again, even if there were not all that I previously counted, it would have to be enough for today's minister to get rid of the other person, the second team, and then try to change, fix, solve whatever it takes to get rid of. With everything we have talked about today, we have lost our answers; we have no answers to what it is like to implement legislative and judicial decisions. Are they binding on individuals, bodies, institutions of the Republic of Slovenia or not? Does any Member, or two Members, or does the President of the Government have the right to intervene in the implementation of a legislative decision? These are answers to questions that we would expect from the Minister of Justice in a just way – and we did not get them. It's probably clear to everyone why. We got a mountain of empty words, no answers, we got a mountain of sedition, but we didn't get any answers to the questions. When it came to that basic reason that we are facing today, which was in fact the very basis of this interpretation, it is quite clear here, because this National Assembly has already voted on this when we adopted the Commission's unanimously adopted report on the monitoring of intelligence and security services in the matter of the investigation of billions of euro worth of money laundering, the financing of terrorism, the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction and, of course, the laundering of money through the New Ljubljana Bank, it was a unanimous decision, without a single vote against, the entire National Assembly, to support those findings which the Commission unanimously adopted. One of these findings is still quite relevant today and I will read it again so that there is no doubt. In a specific case, the Commission’s actions to prosecute corruption were surprised by the monitoring of security and intelligence services. They received a secret whistleblower document from Banka Slovenije which pointed to the suspicion of the crime of money laundering. The KPK assessed that it was not competent, so the document was handed over to the police by – I stress – informal routes. Before that, they put together a document to protect the whistleblower. In addition, they did not report the crime to the police on the basis of the provisions of the CAP, as stipulated by the agreement concluded between the KPK and the MNZ and the police with 1. 6. In 2010, but the document was handed over to an NPU official to take it to the police, where every trace was then lost. If we were to respect that agreement, by the way, we should at least inform the top of the police in particular. Nor has this been done, as is clear from the documentation that is not, nor from the statements of witnesses on the one hand and on the other. And then, because it is essential: the conduct of the KPK contrary to the existing agreement between the KPK, the MNZ and the police of 1. 6. 2010 constitutes a breach of the formal operating arrangements of the official institutions. The National Assembly has already voted on this, ladies and gentlemen! You have also voted in favour of all those present here today. Now, what were the consequences of this action? Several times it was said, since this could not have affected, or in the beginning it was even a claim, since it did not affect any further investigation in any way. Of course, it does not, for it has already been written several times or reported, newspapers, media, the Internet, we have read these things everywhere, and so it is essential to hear the other side; it is said how the police viewed it. The then head of police investigation has repeatedly said that his conduct and the further work of the police would undoubtedly be significantly different if we had comprehensive information. So if we get the appropriate document, the original document of the whistleblower, from the KPK, actually in accordance with the protocol, which, unfortunately, was not clearly respected in this case. For then the record would be valid on the one hand, on the other hand, especially the summit would be notified, it could not happen that this document would just disappear somewhere, which would disappear. This is an essential difference between informal and formal surrender, between whether or not that agreement is respected or not. This later amendment of legislation has no effect at all, it's lariphati! This is about things having to be officially protocoled, because then, of course, the principle – everyone who has met with it, you know that – in the Ministry of the Interior, if they receive something officially, say, in accordance with this protocol, then they have to record it in advance. And then they have to record everything that's going on, including the final outcome. The final outcome, of course, must be notified to the prosecution in such a case. In that case, you know, for every 40 years, a stolen moped is written to the prosecution, for a billion euros in suspicion, a reasonable suspicion of money laundering for terrorism, for the purchase of weapons of mass destruction, for the Iranian nuclear bomb, for the laundering of money, and the prosecution has not been informed. That incomplete information, the incompleteness of all information, the absence of relevant documents to support the continuation of the investigation, in particular this document, is one of the fundamental reasons for the failure of the investigation, for those unsuccessful completion of the investigation in 2010-2011, was also confirmed by all the others involved by the police. All the information went this way. This is said to be an unsustainable claim that this did not have any effect. It certainly had an impact. What is essential to today’s decision is the answer to the question of whether such views are such — it was evidently the intention of someone, in their own words, to attach a pot and run in front of the cameras — in line with the integrity of the Minister of Justice. And it's probably clear to everyone that that's not the case. Such conduct then increases the lack of confidence in the Minister, the Ministry of Justice, the Government, the institutions of the country as a whole, in justice as a whole. That's why this is the basis of interpolation. This is why we will all vote in favour of interpretation – to show that we rightly expect the Minister of Justice to act in accordance with the fundamental principles that are, within the framework of our powers, to care for the reputation of the function that he performs, to increase the confidence of people in the justice system and the functioning of state institutions in full and that he is also responsible for the area he covers, to enforce the principle of responsibility; not only in words, ladies and gentlemen, in actions! Only actions are considered in politics, only acts are considered to be people who have some political experience. Unfortunately, in Slovenian politics, words have become very cheap goods, that the word does not apply, nor do the signed agreements apply. But they count the actions. The pressure on the button counts. It counts whether the minister is dismissed or not. These are acts that count in politics. The Minister is expected to take care of the effectiveness and functioning of the judicial system within his powers, in accordance with European standards and thus to ensure the effective and unhindered exercise of the constitutional right to judicial protection [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u132	A little peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u133	and the enforcement of judgments and decisions within a reasonable period of time. [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the norm of constitutional law. Therefore, there was another legitimate question which I had raised several times before to the Minister: Do the legal decisions of the judicial system bind individuals, officials, institutions, authorities of the Republic of Slovenia? Do the administrative decisions of an administrative nature issued by the Ministry bind individuals, institutions, bodies of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, its officials? Does anyone, as a Member or President of the Government, have the right to interfere with the judicial decision of the judiciary? Let's say it's the Supreme Court's judgment. Does anyone have the right to interfere with the enforcement of a ministry's administrative decision? These are the answers that we expect and that every citizen and every citizen rightly expects from the Minister of Justice, because he is responsible for this area, for the implementation of the rule of law and, of course, for the realization of the principle that we are all equal before the law. That principle, which we have demonstrated several times today, is unfortunately not true in Slovenia, and, in particular, when it comes to justice, we have citizens of the first order for whom the evidence for which the time is late will never be judged as their possible culprits. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u134	Peace in the Hall [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u135	and we have citizens of the second order, where, I don't know, 200, 300 euro bribes, he's sentenced to three years in prison or he's confiscated for 150 or 160 euros and sold at auction. [[…]] And that's the real state. It is the responsibility of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The responsibility for exercising this responsibility is yours. I hope that this time you will respect the principle of the rule of law, constitutional principles, respect for human rights and responsibility, as you have taken away your fellow Member's mandate by obviously knowingly, intentionally violating human rights. We will certainly vote in favour of the resolution of the Magi in the SDS. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u136	Before continuing, I must explain the procedural part which was initially mentioned. First, I note that the Rules of Procedure have been fully respected today. The Minister is not obliged to respond to you, nor is the President's task to call for this, since the Minister is autonomous both in terms of content and defence tactics when interpreting, so respect for the Rules of Procedure cannot be in any way an insult. It is also an objective fact, at least, that the President of the Government is today at the European Union Social Summit in Gothenburg and that it is only a time association or a combination of two events, that this does not provide sufficient evidence for a causal link. That's an objective fact. I can say these two, and that's it. Now I'm asking if he wants to, because all the debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether it wants to under paragraph 71. Articles of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be discussed. No, no, no. Well, no one wants to discuss it anymore. In such a case, I conclude the debate. Because they're coming from all sides, it's not biased now. We're also moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Yeah, yeah. [[Laughing in the hall]] I see you're checking. If anyone hasn't checked, tell them. Interpellators propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision following the debate: "The National Assembly, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, gives an untrustworthy statement to the Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčič.« In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. There were 18 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that the Minister of Justice has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on 21 November 2017 at 9 a.m.
