ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Vesna Vervega, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mrs Anita Koleša from 6 p.m. on, Violeta Tomić, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Janja Sluga, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Branko Zorman, Mr Marjan Dolinšek by 22 p.m., Dr Milan Brglez between 16 and 18 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin from 18:00 on, Mrs. Susana Lep Šimenko from 16:00 on, Dr. László Göncz from 15:00 on, mag. Branko Grims and Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 6 November 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present and 60 were voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 17 Members and Members with Mr Matjaz Han, the first to be signed. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Amendments to pension legislation are always accompanied by a number of pressing social and economic issues. I also have to say this from my own experience; in the last three weeks since this law has been on the road, I have received a bunch of questions and I am aware of what it means to change pension legislation. During the second Janša government, the Social Democrats supported the pension reform that Minister Vizjak had prepared at the time and was successful in negotiating with the social partners, and I think he did a good job back then, although we know that this reform was in some way also based on Svetlik's reform before the time. I don't want to talk about the referendum itself. When we supported the last pension reform, we were aware that it was not ideal and that it did not solve all demographic challenges for all time. However, she was in line with the unions and then went in the right direction, and we see that today she has some good results. The insurance principle of our pension and social insurance means that we have to build confidence in the pension system all the time, that is the most important thing. In the future, our pension system must be based on intergenerational solidarity and, above all, on reciprocity. And that's the key. And because the state must guarantee rights and protect the legitimate expectations of people within the pension system, we have decided in the Group of Social Democrats and in the Desus Group of Members to present the proposal of the novel STIZ to you. To begin with, and to be honest, we have also prepared the proposal of the novel ZPIZ on the basis of cooperation with the Free Trade Unions and in cooperation with the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. Free unions have, since the entry into force of the current law, in some way, been social partners in the Reformation of Vision, fighting for the elimination of the injustice that was committed at that time — if it was a injustice — brought to those who voluntarily took part in compulsory pension insurance. All of us now find that people who were within the pension system until 2013 were guaranteed the right to voluntary entry into compulsory pension and disability insurance and that this pension period would be equivalent to other periods. In the exercise of this right, the majority were unemployed, including many who lost their jobs in bankruptcy and lost their compensation at the institution after a certain age. The second major group were people who worked part-time to supplement working hours. The third was for those elderly unemployed who were or who were in some way unemployed and were waiting for a pension. This novel is, therefore, a way of correcting the injustices that are directed to these workers or to these groups. Therefore, the novel PPIZ in front of you removes the injustice that has occurred to people who have been voluntarily involved in compulsory pension insurance before the last pension reform. We are absolutely without prejudice to the system of pension insurance, as agreed at the time between the Janša government and between the social partners and in essence when it comes to the last reform. We do not change – and this is most important – pension conditions and do not interfere with existing solutions and current pension conditions. We ensure to people that those periods obtained by voluntary payment of contributions and by the old law were considered to be working hours in fulfilling retirement conditions, now, according to the new, rectification law, during the retirement period without a purchase. People will essentially get rid of those maluses for which they were given a decision if this law is adopted. It is worth noting that by means of this law we are only dealing with issues of the age that has been paid according to the old law. Those who are under the new law do not, for those who voluntarily pay under the new law today know that this period will not be counted as a condition for 40 years of retirement without a sum that allows retirement at a lower age without a reduction. And in fact, it's our assessment that it's about a thousand to five thousand people who, in a way, have smaller pensions. Since I am running out of time, I would like to say another change, where it is essentially that this amendment of Article 134 will certainly make people know one thing for sure – that if the employer does not pay them contributions, it will be determined by the ZPIZ office and then the FURS will be able to challenge this contribution to people and people will, of course, be counted in a way of working time. I think this is crucial, and I hope that in this debate that we will have today, it will not be primarily official logic and logic that all must [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u3	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u4	ordinary people or workers make sure that their contributions are paid. [[…]] So in the end, I apologize for being a little longer, but in life with small things we can also do great stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u5	The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs, disabled persons as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At its 49th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. It was put into the procedure by the SD and Desus Group of Members. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the Commission of the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia and, of course, our Legal and Legislative Service participated in the committee itself. It examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and made some comments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 6. The Committee also considered or took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which, of course, supports the proposal of the law. Amendments to Articles 1, 3 and 6 were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. Initially, my trifle and colleague Han, as representatives of the proponents, stressed that the delegation of Desus and SD prepared the novel proposal in cooperation with the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. The legislation is being amended on the initiative of citizens who felt injured as a result of the 2012 pension reform, since the period they acquired through voluntary entry and payment as a result of compulsory pension and disability insurance before 2013 was no longer counted or counted in the same way as in previous legislation. Although the Constitutional Court has not established the constitutionality, we have decided to propose a change to the regulation of that issue in order to ensure that insured persons who were voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance before 2013 will be included in that period. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u7	A little peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u8	has also taken into account in determining whether the conditions for retirement are met under the conditions of 60 years and 40 years of non-remunerated retirement. [[…]] The amendment of the law ensures the principle of the protection of the rights expected. In its opinion presented to us, the government has explicitly stressed that the proposal to amend the law also supports it. In the debate itself, which took place mainly on the subject of Article 1 of the bill, it was stressed that the proposal is also important for people to be restored to the pension system – both to current pensioners and, of course, to those who are about to enter the pension scheme. We agreed on the Committee that it was necessary to ensure that the entire period of pension insurance was taken into account for workers who did not have an impact on the calculation of social security contributions, while informing the insurers of the consequences of the non-payment of accounts and inviting employers to pay their salaries and pay their tax deductions. It was also pointed out that the burden should not, I stress, be borne by workers or insured persons, since it is the country which must ensure that the worker is protected. However, for the infringement of the employer, the worker must not and cannot be burdened. At the conclusion of the item under consideration, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3 and 6. The Committee did not adopt the proposal for an amendment to the Committee of the left-wing Group, but, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on all the articles of the bill together and, to my great pleasure, also unanimously with 15 votes in favour and none against. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes amendments, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I have tried to present to you in spite of the noise in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u9	To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u10	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! A proposal for amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act proposes a new regime to take account of the period obtained by voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance in such a way as to ensure that the pensionable period of up to and including 31. 12. 2012 – means, pending the entry into force of the applicable law – obtained on the basis of voluntary entry into compulsory pension and disability insurance, in the exercise of rights under the new law, is regarded as a non-compensated retirement period. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the indications and justifications of the law's proponents and supports the purpose provided for by the law with regard to the protection of workers' rights and the uniform arrangements for the consideration of periods of unpaid, unaccounted contributions to insured persons who may affect the accounts and the payment of social security contributions. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a new regime to take into account the pension age acquired by individuals through voluntary entry into compulsory insurance by 2013 as a retirement period without being paid, it points out that it understands the reasons for the proposed amendments and therefore does not explicitly object to the proposal for a law – also with regard to ensuring that funds for the implementation of these changes are already provided in the existing financial plan of the institution. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia confirms the findings of the proposal, which points out that in 2018 there will be a different consideration of periods for which employers will not propose the calculation of social security contributions during the pension period. In the following year, individual records will be established at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, from which it will be possible for the individual insured to establish the facts of the invoice as well as the payment or partial payment of the contributions. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also considers it necessary to ensure that workers for whom the employer does not pay the bill will not be harmed in the exercise of pension insurance rights and that, despite the unlawful conduct of their employers, they will have social security in the event of the occurrence of insured cases provided for in the law. The Government notes in its position that the proposal, in accordance with the principle of protection of a weaker party and taking into account other features of the system, establishes a sufficient system of protection of workers' rights under pension and disability insurance. At the same time, the Government welcomes the introduction of information to workers whose social security contributions will not be charged or paid, as it is also considered unacceptable by the Government that workers can only be made aware of this fact at the time of retirement or the exercise of pension and disability insurance rights. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also supports the proposal for a law in the work relating to the uniformisation of the arrangements for the inclusion of periods of unpaid and unaccounted contributions for all insured persons who are able to influence the payment and calculation of social security contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u11	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u12	Your Honor! We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The bill is clearly being amended on the initiative of citizens and citizens, as some shortcomings have been identified in the existing law, which was adopted unanimously at the time, including with the support of today's applicants. Notwithstanding the fact that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia considered such a solution to be constitutionally permissible, the issue of voluntary contributions paid for pension insurance has long been known. We therefore do not understand what has been waiting for those coalition parties that have been in power since 2013 and have a parliamentary majority in order to be able to amend the laws. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, therefore, we consider that the change is welcome because we want to achieve solutions with this change to mitigate the consequences of the regulation of the current law of the ZPIZ-2 in the work relating to non-compliance with voluntary entry into compulsory pension and disability insurance until the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2, that is to say, up to and including 31. 12. 2012. However, we must note that those who have acquired their pension periods should also be in the same position, as there is no reasonable reason why they should be treated differently from those who have paid voluntary contributions. With a view to equal treatment, we have also tabled an amendment. Another solution to support the law is a solution that makes it easier to recover social security contributions that have not been paid for workers. Any solution in this direction is welcome provided that this does not mean an unnecessary additional bureaucratic burden on employers. An amendment was also adopted on the Committee, which is an integral part of the law and improves the original text in the sense that it prescribes the obligation of the PPE to delegate an obligation to the employer and to the insured person to unaccounted for contributions if the employer fails to fulfil its obligations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the draft amendments to the law are the means to solve matters in the right direction, so we have already stated in our opening position that we will support the law, regardless of the fact that it is only before the new elections in the National Assembly, which can be seen as pre-electionary populism of the current coalition parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President. Say good-bye again! I would like very briefly to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Of course, as co-proposers of the changes of this law, we are very happy about what happened on the part of our mother’s working body. However, it happened that we did not make a practical decision, but we did make a unanimous decision to support this law. I believe that this will also happen today in the National Assembly, as the law brings only and exclusively positive values to beneficiaries or to those who receive the pension now or will do so in the future. That stricter legislation has practically been in force for almost five years when it fulfils the conditions for retirement and by entering the payment system itself. By responding to the challenges of demographic trends, which are just like them, at the same time enables a more sustainable pension system. In doing so, of course, there have been so many positive effects on the pension fund alone, if you want, of course, the state budget as well as the pensioners themselves. However, here at this point it is necessary to say that not only is everything positive in changing the so-called ZPIZ-2, but there are also some shortcomings that you do not want to sneak up on with the pension reform in 2012 or with the implementation of 1. 1. 2013 and proved to be, I will say, unfair or unfair, inappropriate for some groups of people. And we are now putting an end to these matters by amending this law. Voluntary inclusion in the system of pension and disability insurance is treated under the last legislation as a period not considered to meet the conditions. However, in the same breath, let me stress or add that contributions to voluntary inclusion are not going to go to nothing, so they are not paid without a relationship, as they are charged or charged at the own rate of retirement or pension. However, the insured person is deprived, and here we are correcting this today. If he chooses to retire early, his pension was reduced to 15 percent in a few years because of the low rate of 0.3 percent per month — which may be up to 15 percent — despite taking into account the voluntary contributions he paid on his own initiative. Otherwise, if he did not decide on his early retirement, his full retirement, full retirement in the final stage would be considerable, even for a year or more. Because we know that in the case of voluntary insurers, if you want, it is generally for vulnerable populations – people who have lost their jobs, who have also lost their unemployment benefits, who have been recipients of financial social assistance and who have from those few pairs of fiches, who have been excused from this comparison, who have lost their mouths and paid 60 euros on their own, who have paid 60 euros in cash for voluntary pension and disability insurance, and who have been deprived of or deprived of this, we unfortunately cannot afford it. [[…]] It is true that we react a little late, but, better late than never, the system for re-accounting pensions will roll and people will not be deprived. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the proposal we are making today is fair, fair and very necessary. But it is not only because of this group of insurers or pensioners, but also because of this, listen well to me, to restore confidence in the pension system to generations who are not even close to retirement today or who will enter the pension payment system over a long period of years. The law on pension and disability insurance of the Member and Members of the Desus Group and SD complements one more with a useful and welcome solution for the insured, namely the calculation of contributions to pension insurance. Our supplement will also provide insurance for those who are not only paying the contributions but also not charging them; they will have a recognised retirement period for that period. As my colleague Han pointed out in the introduction, some small steps have been taken for decision makers in the National Assembly and for large gains for all those who have been deprived for such or other reasons. And with the change in the PIZ-2 at this point in time, this anomaly, if you want, we eliminate this injustice. And I sincerely expect that we will be as coherent as we were on the labour force, and we will support the unanimous amendment of the law in favour of those pensioners who were in the past and who are still disadvantaged at this point. Thank you very much and a sincere apology for a few seconds of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the novelism of the pension law that we have prepared with the help of the Union of Free Trade Unions in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and in Desus. And I can say, as has already been said, that she received unanimous support from the committee, and so we hope that this will happen today. The law does not change the foundations of pension legislation, but unfortunately, this must be acknowledged, nor does it touch on all the areas that have proved to be the most unimaginable since the implementation of the new pension legislation. However, some feel that he is too ambitious to solve just a few hundred cases. In our Group of Members, however, we believe that it is still necessary and necessary, because we want to restore people's confidence in the rule of law, and ultimately in politics, even if we do step by step. It's human to be wrong, they say. It is very important to acknowledge and correct a mistake, if possible, and we are doing so today with this novel. We are changing the law on the initiative of citizens who felt damaged by the 2012 pension reform because the period they acquired through voluntary entry into compulsory pension and disability insurance before 2013 was no longer counted in the same way as in previous legislation. ZPIZ-2 has enacted a new right, which is an early retirement. Thus, insured persons who were voluntarily involved in compulsory insurance were able to retire early at the age of 60 and 40 years of retirement, and unfortunately their pension was still up to 18% lower, as they were denied a minority for every missing year. We believe that such an intervention in the rights acquired is unacceptable. Because people believed in laws and the rule of law, they expected that the rights provided by this title could benefit. And the new law limited them. Therefore, we have prepared solutions to propose a new regime to take into account the period obtained by voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance, so that the pensionable period, which is up to and including 31. 12. 2012 acquired by voluntary entry into compulsory pension and invalidity insurance, in the exercise of rights under the new, valid pension law considered as a non-compensated retirement period. We are also dealing with this novelty in another important area, namely the recognition of insurance for workers in the event that the employer did not pay their contributions. We are introducing this provision in the proposal for a novel because we believe that it is wrong to end up with good, working people because of the controversial practices used by certain employers. Despite the concerns expressed by the Ministry of Finance on the Committee, we believe that the written solution is the only guarantee for the protection of workers' rights. It is appropriate that the period for which social security contributions are paid is included in the pension period, regardless of whether those contributions are paid. With the amendment adopted on the Committee, we have laid down the obligation of the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance to notify the employer and the insured person of the unaccounted contributions in the event that the employer has failed to fulfil his obligations and has not provided for the payment of the tax deduction. The notification will inform each worker of the consequences of the unaccounted for contributions and of the legal possibilities it has to protect its rights. However, the employer will be informed that he has to pay his salary if he has not already done so and mediate the payment of the tax deduction, otherwise he commits an offence, which is, of course, punishable. We sincerely believe that the proposed novel is good and is also going towards greater protection of workers' rights. That's why we're going to support her together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! The law we are dealing with solves three perceived problems of the current PIZ-2. First, the inclusion of the period of voluntary participation in compulsory pension and disability insurance for periods up to and including 31. 12. 2012 in the pension period with no totality. Secondly, the provision of an appropriate basis for inclusion in compulsory insurance for business persons or associates in or in the case of non-payment of contributions or non-submission of accounts for paid social security contributions. [[…]] Thirdly, it governs the competence of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office to issue so-called pre-filled accounts of social security contributions for workers who are included in the insurance on the basis of the first and third paragraphs of Article 14 of STIZ-2 and for whom the employer of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia does not submit a statement of contributions. In New Slovenia we support the proposed solutions. But we must warn you that marriage in its solutions does not go far enough. We and probably all the parliamentary groups have been contacted by voluntary insurers who, in anticipation of the right to a pension without a pension, paid for pension and disability insurance even after 31. 12. 2012. Among them are many women who belong to the most vulnerable group of people. According to the ZPIZ-2, this category of people does not have the right to reduce the age limit for work before the age of 18 years, does not have the right to enforce children to reduce the age limit and cannot apply reductions for the duration of military service. However, they must wait until the age of 65, which is almost 6 years older than the age at which most other citizens are currently retired. If they had retired early, they would have a pension of up to 18%. The period of voluntary payment will, in accordance with the law, be considered as a non-compensated retirement period. That is why we have included this solution in our novel ZPIZ-2F, which is already waiting for consideration in the National Assembly. In addition to them, we were contacted by disabled workers who were on the 31st day. 12. 2012 employees for a fixed period, had five years of transitional period and the possibility of retirement after the STIZ-1, the same as those working persons with disabilities who were on the 31st day. 12. 2012 registered at the Employment Institute [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u19	A little peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u20	as unemployed persons. [[…]] It would be fair to be even and not punished for their work. Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! This agenda item is intended to address the injustices caused by the pension reform of the second Janšev government in 2012. As of 1 January 2013, it has taken back the rights of persons who voluntarily participated in compulsory pension and disability insurance and have paid their own contributions in order to ensure the right to an old-age pension. This could have been done since 1. 1. 2000 when the old Pension and Disability Insurance Act entered into force. The voluntary payment of the contributions was decided primarily by holiday workers, the long-term unemployed and those who waited for retirement, i.e. already so socially vulnerable, who, despite severe social hardships, paid the pension funds to secure the right to a pension. In 2012, however, the National Assembly, by means of the so-called Visa Law, unanimously took away the essential element of the right for which they joined the insurance. And once again, it was taken back. At that time, 76 MEPs and members of the National Assembly were present and all voted in favour, including today's SD and Desus drafters, although there were clear and well-known consequences of unfair deprivation of rights. Later, the Union of Free Trade Unions and the Ombudsman demanded a constitutional review of the disputed proposal, but governments and ministries have been defending unfair regulation until now — that is, for 5 years. The proposal that we have before us today finally eliminates this injustice in part. Age obtained by voluntary inclusion in pension and disability insurance up to 1. 1. This proposal would take full account of the 2013 proposal. In Levica, of course, we support that. However, we point to the following. There is a high probability that those who took part in the insurance before the end of 2012, say, in 2010, and then paid it further after 1. 1. They were simply not informed of the amendment of the legislation in 2013. They simply paid forward on the expectation and belief that the insurance period would be taken into account at the retirement age and thus at the retirement age. There aren't many of them. He also referred to our parliamentary group when he heard that we had proposed this amendment or an amendment to the law on the committee. That is why we will propose it again today, and we appeal to all parliamentary groups to support it. However, we have prepared another amendment concerning the recovery of unpaid social contributions. Indeed, the proposal before us is an obligation to recover unpaid social security contributions unjustifiably translates into employees. The Secretary of State Peter Pogačar himself has rightly stated on the Committee that the effectiveness of collecting contributions to public pension systems is the task of a state which cannot delegate to employees, so we have proposed another amendment, namely that this becomes the task of the State, not that the employees who are subordinate to the employer are burdened with the care of paying their own social contributions, which is the job of the employer. If they're paid, the state has to worry. If I draw the line; we are glad that after five years of injustice — we hope to succeed — today that this right, which has been taken back, will be restored. Once again, we call on all parliamentary groups to support our two amendments, which are essential to the effectiveness and fairness of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u23	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u24	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, on my behalf! And what, in fact, is there to say in the end, since we are merely repeating ourselves in some way about this law? We also support the proposed changes in our parliamentary group, because we are convinced that a mistake has been made in some way in accepting the ZPIZ-2. The basic purpose of the bill is to remedy, in accordance with the principle of protection of trust in law, the consequences of the arrangements of the current PPIZ-2 in the work relating to non-compliance with voluntary entry into compulsory pension and disability insurance until the entry into force of the PPIZ-2, that is to say up to and including 31. 12. 2012, in the period of retirement without totality. As has already been said, we will support the bill in our parliamentary group. But I'm going to add two reviews. One relates to the financial consequences. You write in the law that the bill has no financial implications for the state budget, but in the same breath you say it will cost the country about 2 million euros. Who, if not the state budget? We're going to add a billion 300 to the PIZ anyway, and we're going to add these two million euros so that it's right to write it down. And secondly, I can't get rid of the feeling that in some way it's some populism, because it's being solved right before the elections. The law was adopted in 2012, the warnings were given earlier, so that the matter could be settled before that. And another warning. I think we've all received some letter on this subject so that this law will not eliminate all the mistakes that the PIZ-2 has made. So I hope that those of you who are proposing have reviewed all these comments and that we will not create any new problems with this law. Anyway, the purpose is good, and that's why it has our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u25	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u26	All present, thank you for your word. The pension reform was adopted in 2012, without a vote against and in agreement with the social partners. Undoubtedly, the reform was needed both because of the increase in pension allowance deficits, unfavourable demographic forecasts, economic circumstances and also because of the increase in the company's longevity. In order to achieve the reform objective, it was necessary to tighten the pension conditions and at the same time to change the mode of retirement. Regrettably, since the implementation of the reform after 2013, anomalies have been identified in practice, as well as the mistakes that are being addressed with the novel today. Although the Constitutional Court ruled that the regime was not inconsistent with the Constitution, the applicants decided to propose a change to the law in the work relating to the consideration of the period of voluntary inclusion in the pension and disability insurance in the determination of compliance with the conditions for retirement 60 years and 40 years before 2013. The next proposed amendment is aimed at protecting workers and foresees informing them if the REK forms have not been submitted. The applicable legislation provides in Article 134 that during the pension period also the periods during which the employer has accounted for compulsory insurance contributions from the insured person’s salary but has not paid them. 2018 will set up a record of the contributions charged and paid on the basis of which the contributions are not charged to workers. The period of inclusion in compulsory insurance would consequently not be taken into account during the period of retirement if the legal arrangements were not amended. However, since the worker has a limited possibility of affecting whether the employer pays his contributions, the aim of the proposed amendment is to set up mechanisms to protect the worker in a working relationship from the loss of an insurance period during the period in which he actually worked, but he has not been charged and paid social security contributions. In the Modern Centre Party, we are very well aware of the importance of the Institute of Pensions in Slovenia. This is also evidenced by the latest amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provided the lowest pension of EUR 500 for pensioners who meet the full conditions for retirement. As we are aware that pensioners are a vulnerable social group and that pensions are important to them, if not even the only source of income, we welcome the changes envisaged today's novelties. At the time of the consideration of the draft law on the home working body, Members of the Modern Centre's Group of the Parties have also strongly highlighted the dilemmas and we are aware that the proposed amendments do not address the situation of all those who have been harmed in any way by the adoption of the ZPIZ-2, and we will nevertheless support the bill, as the amendments envisaged by the Amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act for a category follow the principle of protection of trust in law. So, as it is said, the SMC Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. [[advertising from the hall]] So do I. First you get the word, just let them sign up anyway. He has a word, as I said at the outset, on behalf of the proposaler, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u28	Very honest and briefly, given that I've listened to all the party representatives. I must say that in some way I thank you for seeing this law in such or otherwise form today see the light of the world. When I listened to Marian from SDS, I must say that he used a much nicer word than I did when I said we did wrong. Marian said that one flaw was made at the time, and I think it is true. And I just want to say one thing to Marian and his sending group that it is not clear to me why governments have not done this before. During this period, she led the Ministry of Labour of the SD most of the time. However, we all know how difficult it is to change any pension reform, since this, however, opens up a lot of questions — and here I would be referring to Alice. And every single person in the country who receives a pension right in front of the room has his own story, his own view. But somewhere like real politics, he just has to make some line that he's not going under. We must view each individual as a Member, but unfortunately we must also look at the budget. The budget, as you all know, is already giving. A billion euros in pension allowance; thank God, in the last period almost 200 or 300 million less than before, because economic growth, unemployment has improved and so on. And yet, that's a lot of money. Acquisition and voluntary inclusion in the pension system was already ranked differently with the old law. If we thought only or if I had thought only of the elections coming, then we would have put everyone in this marriage, but in the end, we wouldn't have a cash register. So we, I will say, in a way indeed – and I have also written to every individual who wrote to me in an email, why – I have decided only on this part. And I am aware that there will probably be some happy people today, some people – of course those who have acquired studies, those who have acquired military strength, as we said then – will probably be dissatisfied. However, I do not agree, and it is most dangerous that this law, which would be mainly political or political, is now being auctioned; because one party has invested something, the other party will raise something, but I only see well-intention in all those we have spoken today. The only thing I can clearly say is that we cannot support the amendment of the SMC in the Group of Social Democrats. It's two things. One is substantive because we think that it will have to deal with whether or not he has paid contributions because many workers do not even know that he has paid contributions, which is why there has been a problem. [[…]] Those who get their hands on may know that something is wrong, but simply some dishonest entrepreneurs — and these are relatively few — pay the employee’s salary, give the payroll, but REK’s form does not give out, and then the worker in some way does not know that his contributions have not been paid, and then he knows only when he is sorry to retire. That's why I think it's right that with the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and Furs, we're saving it with this law. Another thing I would like to say is, which is not substantive, but if any amendment is adopted, then you know that this law will not be adopted today because it is then a third reading. And what can be done? Then we must convene another extraordinary session. When are we gonna call her? That's one problem. Secondly, we in a way, but people do not understand this if this law is not adopted – so we also went to an extraordinary meeting – we are putting an end to the law on the intervention measure in the labour market, by which we address the rights of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market; these are older ones who are more difficult to employ. It is very plastic, therefore, if this law is not adopted today, we will again request an extraordinary session for the third reading, but with today we will block that law and we can somehow get into a situation where this law will not be adopted and that law will not be adopted. We can't go to that risk to the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u29	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greetings to all present! I am also joining those who have enjoyed these debates so far, namely, that we feel united that all the members of the group will contribute their voice to the fact that this law will indeed be adopted. This law is very important for certain groups of people who, as we have already heard today, have been deprived of the new pension reform in some way because of a mistake or anomaly – some said that it was already known – and on the other hand, it may have been overlooked and many people have been affected by these injustices. This is the poorest group of the population, i.e. those who at the time worked either for shorter working hours or remained unemployed and literally cut themselves off so that they could make voluntary contributions and expect certain rights from these contributions, which were later abolished by the pension reform. Here we have also heard that comments were made on whether it was 2 million, 3 or 4 million. I would point out here, however, that we have a real deal here with people who have no influence in this society, and yet the law is being drawn up to correct injustices for these people, because when we deal with more than 10 million or more 100 million, no one wonders whether it's 102 million or 104 million. So I think it's right to say that these injustices need to be corrected, whether it's 2 or 4 million final financial consequences. And as far as we can tell by the ZPIZ, this will be transferable according to the planned revenue. This proposal has been tabled by Members Desus, together with the Social Democrats. It should be noted, however, that it was also created in cooperation with the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, which means that this injustice has been identified in some way. I regret, however, that the Constitutional Court was not prepared to recognize injustice and only to eliminate it. So in some ways, it is the responsibility of Members to recognize this, and regardless of all that has happened in these procedures, we can say that only those who are prepared then also to correct those errors that arise during the proceedings in the National Assembly. At that time, it was an economic crisis, and in every way it wanted to be saved, and then a number of mistakes were made, especially when it was desired or when there was a willingness to save on those who were most vulnerable, which, of course, is not right to do so at all, but that is the normal situation. The law is also one of those who were adopted without a vote on the parental committee, although we had a very thorough, intense debate on the SMC Members on the one hand and on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other and on the Ministry of Finance, and on the other hand on the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. It was actually about the things that we find today in the SMC amendment; that is exactly what we discussed and I was very happy when it came to the fact that we unitedly supported the law in the form that it is before us today. I can say that this idiot has somehow disturbed this SMC amendment, which was tabled yesterday, which shows that different views and passions about the content of this law have not yet been fully settled, but I hope that today, if necessary, we will be able to discuss this and finally reach a single consensus, which has already been announced in this area. This is about trying to take a step towards employers, protecting them in some way, even though in fact it is those employers who are not honest who have failed to comply with the REK form, who have not accounted for contributions, to try to somehow translate their guilt into workers who would be considered a period of non-payment of contributions to the pension period only if they made a certain statement to Furs. Of course, this cannot be agreed with, so that I cannot support this amendment, because I think that the Ministry of Finance and Furs are the bodies most responsible for regulating the area of payment of contributions, wages or taxes, without having to bear the consequences of not paying in any form, even the employees themselves. And since this area is still unregulated, of course I would like to point out that before Slovenia’s independence – before SDK’s end – all these frauds that occurred later were not possible, precisely because we had SDK, which ensured that no employer could avoid paying the contributions. This service was later terminated and caused great damage. The country still has all the tools in its hands to introduce such a service and to prevent all these anomalies that we have experienced, that we have encountered for two decades, which have caused enormous damage to the most common people, so that all these anomalies can be prevented and that they can still be prevented. So I am convinced that it is necessary to go in this direction in order to take advantage of regulation, the possibility of control and all that the country has in its hands, the possibility of obtaining data. And if this were done, then of course today we would not be talking about 75 billion Slovenian taxpayers' money abroad, that we have so many tycoons that so many things have been stolen, in short, it could be prevented and I hope that the state or those responsible in the government will finally be able to make this effort and establish such a job as the SDK has been, that no euro will escape for purposes that are not fair and that the simple people, workers and others will finally be protected against fraud. That seems important to me. Well, in short, this amendment certainly cannot be supported. There are some interesting proposals that have also come to the table today, which I still find difficult to imagine, what they mean financially, what they mean by content. Of course, I can also agree with the fact that penalties for unfair employers are too low to have a dissuasive effect, but I believe that these things need to be examined more precisely and that there will be a time to reach out to this area, of course with a comprehensive view, even as far as the consequences are concerned. So, in the end, before I conclude, let me express once again the joy and gratitude of all the parliamentary groups that have recognized the correctness of such a law, and I believe that, as we have concluded, we will, as we have decided on the home committee, that we will adopt this law in the same form as it was proposed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u32	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, ministries, colleagues, colleagues, nice greetings! Yeah, I'm one of those MPs myself who knows what I've done four. 12. 2012 at the 23rd extraordinary session, when we voted on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, i.e. the full vote on the law. The House of 76 Members, for 76, against no one. A unanimous decision by the Assembly of the State at that time. Among them, if I count quickly, we find 22 Members who are still Members, we also find some President of the Republic, we find some Minister and so on. But I wasn't alone in that vote, I was alone in it, and I think there were at least two very serious coalition coordinations where other people were sitting alongside members of the coalition. In addition to the current minister, the director of the Directorate will probably remember the director of the Directorate. In previous meetings, it was said: “We have aligned ourselves with unions, with ZDUS, with ZDUS, with ZPIZ, with craftsmen, with economists and the law is harmonised.” At the end of the introduction, coalition coordination said: “We have a commitment of all those who support this that if any amendments occur, all these stakeholders will consider that the law is not in line with them and will withdraw from the agreement.” And that's when I said why the hell did I even get that mole that's got the bill, if the law is in line. And I am sure that all the Members then believed in the Minister, the representatives of the Government and, as it is said, all the stakeholders, that they had combed the entire Pension and Disability Insurance Act and agreed on certain changes or certain openings to the articles that were supposed to solve matters. And, as it has been said, it has been said that the law is harmonised and that Members should not be prejudiced. And the Messengers believed in good faith for all. So today, as one of those who was pressured to do so, I can apologize for the mistake that was made, which then turned out to be. But once again, we believed the current political summit, we trusted the current ministry officials, we believed the agreement between ZDUS, ZDUS, trade unions, employers, employees, and I probably forgot someone else. And we thought, well, we changed something a little bit, and of course we probably went to a second marriage vote. So again from this city, an apology to all those who have been proved, even though the Constitutional Court has said that it was not a violation of human rights, we have wronged them. That is why, of course, I welcome the purpose of amending this law, which in fact does not correct all the injustices that we have committed at that time. I'm probably not alone and the only one who got a letter not only from one or two citizens, but a lot more. But believe me, I haven't gotten this in just the last three weeks. In my office there in mid-2013, when people found out what was going on, people started to come, especially older ladies who had worked in companies like Lisca before, Morningka went cumund, and they walked, showed laws and said, look what you did to us. And there were older gentlemen who had bought up military years. Ladies and gentlemen who were already in those years when a person is primarily thinking about when he will retire – usually the last 5 years when you care very much whether he will go on 1 March 2022 or 1 April 2022, I cartoon. And they said, look at the injustice you've done to us. And that is why, Your Honor, I welcome the efforts of all those who have said today that injustice must be saved. But in this mandate, we hear many times that things need to be resolved systematically. And if it is necessary to systematically resolve matters, it is also necessary to systematically solve injustices. And that's why here is our proposal for an amendment that I didn't get to know for the first time a week ago, but, I have a brother, if you like, I will directly tell a lawyer who also made a constitutional complaint on behalf of certain insurers who had problems with this law and with these articles that are being opened today. Only a little later did the Union of Free Trade Unions react and decided to travel to the Constitutional Court. A little later, first of all, a non-chalant response was made by the Ombudsman, who did not understand those individuals who, through their lawyers, decided to travel to the Constitutional Court. But when they saw that it was really a large group of people, then this material and a proposal for a constitutional complaint by the Ombudsman came forward. In short, if we are to solve matters, injustices, we should give them systematically. And here I agree with Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, when she said that injustices must be corrected no matter how much they cost. And here I agree. And I also agree when she said whether it was a million or ten million. I admit, I don't even really know when I'm looking at numbers in front of me – getting a study and serving a military term. However, I have information – and I hope that the people of PIZ will explain this more precisely – that, above all, in that year 1992/1993, most of these cases and the desire to get a study and to get a military service, because, let's be honest, it was also the cheapest at the time. And the question is whether this number I have here — 55,000 people — is whether these people are still alive. Because, as it may be said, people think about retirement 50 plus, at least those who think seriously, not those who say, ah, because if pension is, it will, if it does not, or will not, or many of the younger generation say it from me, because I will not wait for it, what I will do and put in pension insurance or any other kind of insurance. And when we talk about solving injustices, we have heard today that we are restoring confidence in the rule of law. Yeah, about a thousand of them will get their trust back in the rule of law, we hope, but they still won't get that trust from all those who will ask again why you're partially solving things again, rather than systematically. And these people are not interested in why all the funds are earmarked, whether the PSI is for real purposes, or whether the pension fund should be cleared of those matters that have no meaning with regard to the working age, the insurance period, or whether it is in the State budget for other nonsensees that we give either as a pre-election candy or as a means of purpose to certain investments or something else. In short, the amendment makes it quite easy to propose that the situation of those who have reached retirement age by the end of 2012 be equal to those who have been voluntarily insured. It's just to make amends. And respectable, if another extraordinary session is needed, but if we all agree, as we did in 2012, I am sure that if we call for an extraordinary meeting tomorrow afternoon, it would not be a problem, because the rules of procedure are quite flexible, but I remember the days when we called extraordinary meetings on 23 December; not only festive, but also very substantive, when we confirmed matters. And if the problem is one hour or three hours of democracy or our effort to solve the injustice that we have done ourselves – and I repeat again here, we have not done it – I don't think there is a problem here. But if money is a problem, and I'm going to end it, and I'm going to express the words of one of the prominent government representatives who said if money is a problem, then there's no problem. Therefore, I ask our amendment to support all those who want to have what we have taken from them in the issue of military and study years or months to listen to them and to correct injustices. If we do not do this today, we will write a law in the SDS Group, where we will also say that injustice must be corrected and confidence in the rule of law restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u33	Mr. Luka Moon, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u34	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I'm going to try a little more elaborate than I already did in my position to explain our amendments. As we say, we have two amendments. One to Article 1 and one to Article 3. What do we suggest? In the first article, we propose that the injustice should not be corrected only for those who paid who were voluntarily involved in the payment of pension and disability insurance before 2012 – until 31. 12. 2012, but also those who continued to pay it did not know that this right had been forfeited to them. Why are we doing this? This was precisely because of the cases referred to by Tomaž Lisec, who was among those Members at the time who voted on this amendment. If you listened to him carefully, he said: In the middle of 2013, people started walking and showing what was going on. So, people weren't notified on the 31st. 12. 2012 – From now on, you do not have this right, regardless of whether I mean it or not, you decide again whether or not you will continue to pay this insurance – but they have continued to pay in good faith and on the belief that everything is the same. [[…]] They have not been informed of all the implications of the reform at the time, and we therefore suggest that those who, say, started in 2010 or 2007 or end in 2012 pay this and continue to pay it, continuously from 1. 1. 2013 to recognise the possibility that they have not been informed. Unlike that, for example, someone who became involved after the entry into force of the law, say on February 1, 2013, which was informed by officials, and he knew exactly what he was paid for and what was not taken into account. This would not apply to him, but to those who, before the adoption of the reform, started to pay and probably had not known exactly what had changed for a few months. This is what we want to achieve with the first amendment. However, the second amendment to Article 3 has an easy purpose, and this is that the payment of contributions would remain within the country's domain and thus be more effective. In view of the arrangements now proposed, the following will happen: an insurance institution which is included in a compulsory work relationship insurance if the employer does not pay the contributions, then the institution sends a notice to the worker and the employer that the employer has not paid the contributions for it. Then from there it is essentially on the employee's side that the matter regulates to give initiative and so on. We propose what has been originally written in this Act, namely that this notification also implies that contributions to pension and disability insurance in the event that they are not paid within 15 days of receipt of the notification will be compulsively recovered in the enforcement procedure to be managed by the Financial Administration on the basis of a notification from the institution. Thus, we are instituting automation – if they are not paid, the execution process led by the Financial Administration will begin. This achieves two things: there is no need for a worker to worry about paying the contributions that the employer has to pay, and secondly, it also has a dissuasive effect. Look, the penalties you're about to anticipate are very small. In this article, for example, it is specified that a smaller employer – the law does not show what a smaller employer is, only states that he is a legal person, a single entrepreneur, or an individual who carries out the activity alone – gets a fine of 450 to 1000 EUR 200 if he commits the offence, so he does not pay any contributions for his employee. From 450 to thousands of euros for an undefined smaller employer. I don't believe this will have any deterrent effect. In such miserable punishments, we often run into people who simply calculate: If I don’t pay the contributions, I will get some symbolic punishment, but it pays me more to pay this fine than to pay the contributions. Easy. According to our proposal with this automation, it is said that if contributions are not paid, not only will you be hit by a fine, but we will recover you; the systematisation of the recovery of contributions, which is not only good for employees, but also for the country. To conclude, I am calling once again on the Group of Members to consider both of our amendments. In fact, they are very technical, but they improve in both ways the meaning and purpose of this law that we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I ask my colleagues whether there is still a desire to discuss it, so I ask you to sign up for the debate. [[…]] The application shall be made. First of all, Mr. Marijan Pojbič gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must first say that I will support the amendment we have drafted in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The amendment is very clear in the first sentence of the explanation: “With the amendment it is proposed that the situation of those who are 31. 12. 2012 have acquired a retirement age equal to those who were voluntarily insured.« So a very clear diction tells us very clearly what we want to achieve with this amendment, and I think we should not go on with the things that happened when this reform was adopted. This reform was then adopted in 2012 with the aim of changing things for the benefit of our insurers, i.e. pensioners, pensioners and, in general, addressing the problems facing all countries, and these are suitable pension solutions, i.e. as a reform that will endure what is happening in the long run. We all know that we have very big problems with age increasing and so on and so forth, so that we do not explain these matters. The fact is that the pension reform had to be adopted, the reform was adopted, and thank God that at the time the parties were able to understand so much that they unanimously accepted it. Not only parties, including employers in the Socio-Economic Council, were trade unions present and all policy. So, everyone agreed with the changes to this law, all of them. The unions, too. This is very important and very difficult to understand right now any of these groups that would say that the injustice is on any of those who have passed this law. I am always in favour of the solutions being adopted and the right solutions being taken, but you can never know in advance any dots from A to Z, what will be the consequences when this legislation enters into life. When she came into life for once, there were also problems, including all those shortcomings that were recorded in the marriage when it came to life. And when we found out that, of course, I am also saying that it is only a little late that this coalition did not propose this before, it did not propose this solution. That's right, that's what bothers me. That this, as I have already said in the parliamentary group in the first place, is six months before the elections, anyone can understand or not, but why it was done. But well, look, thank God, the point is that things are being resolved and things are going in the right direction. And today, as I have heard, basically the whole policy in this National Assembly is once again the only one in this direction that this law can, I think, be adopted unanimously. And I don't think there's any problem that we can't work with this law again, so that we don't work together, as I would say, systematically all of these solutions, as my colleague Lisec has said before, why and what is the difference between those who have acquired the pension period and those who have been voluntarily insured. What's the problem here? Why not, I do not see any normal argument here that both of them would not be entitled to a solution as enshrined in this law. And I think that this is a move that we must make, and we can do so with the proposal of our amendment. If we accept this amendment today, there is no problem, and those who have reached retirement age will be equal to those who have been voluntarily insured. And the other thing that seems very important to me here is to say when we're talking about the amendment tabled by the SMC. We will not support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will vote against it. Because we're sure and now I'm going to relate to what colleague Han said, he said two things very clearly. [[…]] One is substantive, it is crucial to me, it is, in substance, that it does not commit itself to an employee to determine whether or not his contributions have been paid. This must go on official duty – whether it's Furs or it's a PIZ. And it's settled in the marriage that this is the thing in the P.I.S. And I think that this is a just solution, that this is the right solution, and that we will not continue to burden workers who already have major problems with their lives – because you see what salaries they have to spend from month to month – and that we will also impose on them some additional bureaucratic things that the state has to resolve on official duty. That is why I think that this amendment tabled by the SMC is unjust and I still claim that it will not be adopted and that the law, as it is prepared, will go on and that today such a law will also be adopted in this reading. I'm sure. And I would also like to say that it is not a matter of political speculation, it is not a matter of political reliance here on this or on that side for such and other reasons. I am convinced that this time we want to achieve what has been done wrong in PIZ-2. And no matter who was sitting in the National Assembly at the time. I said the arguments and the reasons why the law was adopted in this way – since it had to be adopted, it had to be adopted. And those who did not sit in this reference at the time are clear, however, even the current government coalition has adopted a whole bunch of legislation that the next governments will have to correct, and this must be clear to you, those who sit in the National Assembly. Because when the story enters your life, you only see the mistakes you've made. What's important is that you don't make any mistakes in advance. And I am sure that all those who voted for it at the time – because they were all present, all parties, unions, etc. — no one purposed to make any mistake in that marriage. However, that law was of paramount importance to the stability of the pension register. It is also of great importance for the future so that in future pensioners can also receive adequate pensions, etc. You're all aware of that. All of them. And how difficult it was to find a compromise between all political parties, let alone trade unions, employers etc., etc., not to explain. I think whoever did this, we have to take the hat down before him, all right? It is our duty, however, to find that anything is wrong, to change these things to the benefit of our pensioners and pensioners and, in general, our country, all citizens and citizens. That's our job. And if we think like that, if we don't think about which party is less important, which is more important, we will do what is crucial, and that is to help people solve problems. People here have pointed to problems, alerted us to problems, and it is our job to regulate this law in such a way that they will be satisfied. That's why we're here, not the other way around. And what we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party in our amendment, I think this should be included. By the way, my colleague Tomaž has already made it very clear that we will be entering our marriage as soon as possible, including for that group of people, even for that group of people who have bought up the years. And it is not fair for them not to be affected by what applies to this second group. I think if we do this, we're gonna fix things in both groups that shouldn't have happened. I hope and speak well-intentionedly and do not speak politically, I speak in the interest of the Slovenian people and Slovenian taxpayers and Slovenian pensioners and pensioners. And I think that's right and that we have to defend this principle, this sense and this path. This must be our task, not whether someone is left or someone is red, who is yellow, who is black and so on; this must not lead when we adopt any legislation or change legislation. And if we understand that, then we have the opportunity, then we have the opportunity of the Slovenian people, we will come out of this mess, out of this, I will say, to the cubicle of the thieving country in which the poor people of Slovenia live. And all these little things that we can help them, at least in the National Assembly, let's be so right and do it because it's our way to better Slovenia. We have this option, we have this right, and we have this duty, and let us take this path forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u37	Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am pleased that we have received this proposal in the procedure of the National Assembly, but I want to take some further steps, after all, the whole of the Left. To this end, we have also tabled two amendments for the benefit of both working people and later when these workers become retired. We do not like the way it was handled itself, but we have received a lot of O.K. proposals on the table, which is still relatively good, but it has been constantly working in the procedure back steps. Initially, this proposal stipulated that for a period of time, contributions from the employee's point of view are also considered if the employer does not pay the contributions, but is at the institutes, i.e. the connection between ZPIZ and Furs, to recover these contributions. And that's some procedure that's supposed to run automatically, and that's the right thing to do. We now have a somewhat adjusted proposal ahead of us, where the working time is still considered even if the employer does not pay the contributions, which is still the case. Well, recovery only happens if a worker requires it. What is the meaning of this provision, I do not represent. I am pleased that the working man is not still the one who remains empty-handed and is still deceived by the fraud and fraud of employers, but I think that then the state and its institutions – more precisely Furs – should still take automatic action to ensure that unpaid contributions are made, that unpaid contributions are still transferred to the cash register and that the employer is sanctioned. Which brings me to the amendment of the Modern Centre Party, which I don't understand at all and I won't support. However, following this proposal and following this amendment, the period for unpaid contributions which the employer has covered up does not count at all unless they are required by the employer and all recovery proceedings are initiated by him himself. This, for the first time, is wrong and, for the second time, is at odds with the basic meaning and the reason why we got this law into Parliament at all. And it's another case of redundancy between a duped worker on the one hand and his right on the other. And this is some practice that, in our country or, rather, the social state has the domestic right mainly at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but apparently adopted it with this amendment by the SMC and wants to transfer it to the pension system. And then some person who is not too literate, usually with lower incomes, in papers and in trade with the state, finds himself in some maze of paperwork forms; he doesn't know how to act, who to turn to, what actually happened to him. And under the line, the only purpose of this action can be to save itself from the naivety and fear of working blisters, while — at the level of psychology — it naturally builds or heightens the sense of powerlessness for workers. If we understand this proposal ironically, his authorship could be attributed to Mr K. from Kafka's process. In fact, I would take another step back here in the trouble of these bureaucratic mills. In fact, already in this current proposal and in its previous proposal, I do not understand why information is given to each other by PIZ and Furs, why it is not already Furs who already has all the information available to him who, after official duty, would recover contributions and everything would be at the end of O.K. Why should it go like this: Furs gets information, goes to the institution, then the institution informs the worker on the one hand, initiates procedures or initiate recovery procedures with Furs. I really don't understand this giving away the collection of unpaid contributions between the office and Furs. However, if this burden continues to be passed on to the worker, it is certainly unacceptable. That is why we will vote against this amendment prepared in the SMC in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u39	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the ministries, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Initially, it might have been defined as why it even came into PIZ-2 this provision, whereby contributions or voluntary inclusion in pension and disability insurance were not considered to be an entry right to a pension and was considered only a right to a pension, but you had so much higher pension; I think that because of demographic changes. Slovenia has an ageing population, and the European Union itself knows what we have also written in the Long-Term Society Strategy that we must strive to ensure that our pension system is sustainable, which means that we must achieve a later retirement. And I think that Minister Vizjak was very skilled in this legislation, in preparing this PPIZ-2, when, instead of extending the working time for admission to a pension, a decision was taken unanimously not to count this period paid by voluntary inclusion in pension insurance, as a period of retirement or if a person retires, he will only be able to retire early with large deductions. Of course, what is not stimulating is that many people have learned at the last minute that they will not be able to retire at the time of their calculations; they have not been able to retire; and they have to remain in a working relationship or even unemployed or retire prematurely with large deductions. I also think that this means a loss of confidence in the rule of law, which is why I am also a great advocate of correcting this. Just as the law is now ready, I think it is perfectly okay for these people to be satisfied and no longer have confidence in the rule of law of this country. I also know from a close relative, as well as from the working environment, the cases of people who paid for it and then said, "Well, what? I also stimulated my two sons who were currently unemployed to pay and voluntarily join the insurance. I just told them, "You're going to have a higher pension," but it doesn't mean anything to a young man, it's important to him that he has money then. However, many had to dispose of it because the people who were involved in voluntary pension insurance at the time were indeed the ones who were the most socially weak. That's why it's okay, I'm sure we can fix it with this law. However, I certainly cannot agree with the amendment proposed by the SMC, this is with regard to the REK forms and that employers do not account for contributions to violate these fundamental rights that they must fulfil so that they do not pay personal incomes, unless they do make calculations. In one piece of data, I noticed that there were about 50,000 such employers, which Furs had warned that they had not paid, that they had not made the REK form, that they had not accounted for these contributions to pension and disability insurance, and that 30,000 had responded. Twenty thousand of them haven't responded. Isn't that a huge number? I know, I remember that in Desus a while ago we had warned that Furs should be much more effective in obtaining contributions for pension and disability insurance and taxes. And if the current legislation isn't right, we should just fix it. I certainly think it is extremely wrong that employers who do not account for these contributions should now be placed on workers after this amendment of the SMC; on those workers who are already disadvantaged. And these are mainly workers who are more employed in lower jobs who are afraid for their jobs. In short, we should protect the workers, not these female employers. In that sense, as my colleague Kordish had already said. Therefore, I will certainly be happy to support the law and certainly not to support the SMC amendment to this third article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u41	Mag. Matthew Tonin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u42	Good afternoon, Members and Members of Parliament! They're paying us contributions for our pension. Some — among whom I am alone — receive these contributions directly from their salaries, and some have paid for these contributions themselves. If we look at the final result, we could say that the result is the same in the final stage — those who account for our salaries and those who pay themselves are paid in any case. And so today's law that is before us somehow eliminates this injustice and double treatment of those who account for it for our wages and those who have paid it for themselves. And that is why we will also support this law, which is before us today, in the New Slovenia Group. But I have to admit that the version that came before us isn't entirely good and missed a few minor details. The law provides for this matter to be taken into account, therefore, to be considered as years without a sum for those who have done so up to 31. 12. 2012. However, after this law had already been introduced into the parliamentary procedure, we were warned by many individuals that, despite all of this, there were some such individuals who had done so since that date. And if we did not adopt this law to create new injustices, it would be wise to support the amendment that eliminates this problem. And here we have at least two amendments, which are substantively very similar, and we have the opportunity, with the support of these amendments – either both of them or one of these two amendments – to correct this inaccuracy or the flaw. Then there is another amendment in the game, which I think, by some common sense or by common sense, we should support, namely, the amendment, which says that contributions that the employer does not pay to his employees should be recovered by the State. I absolutely support that. Absolutely. And I think this amendment is certainly worthy of support, and I hope that it will receive the majority support, at least our Group of Members will support it. Why am I telling you this? I'm sure there are quite a few people in your constituencies, too, citizens who may have stopped by your electoral offices and pointed to this matter. At least in my election office in Kamnik, a person who worked at a volcanic center who, although regularly received a salary, after he was due to retire, was informed: Her and your employer have not paid contributions for four years and therefore, unfortunately, you can't retire yet. Of course, this man was extremely unhappy, nothing to blame. And when he went to his dishonest employer and mentioned it to him — you know what the employer told him? "What do you care, it's none of your business, I don't owe you anything. I paid you all the money. This is a thing between me and the state." But here I think he also said unfairly, because, of course, this non-payment also has concrete consequences for this worker because he cannot retire. But what this unfair employer has said, that this is a matter between him and the state, it seems extremely important to me that the state enters the game here and those employers who do not pay the contributions also recover. But don't tell me, those of you who will object to this amendment that this is not possible because of such or other restrictions. I recall some past discussions in New Slovenia, when we suggested that those who are absolutely obviously cheating and setting up new and new businesses and chaining businesses, that if a country gets them to ban them for 7 years to open any company, then officials would explain to us that this is not possible and that this is possible for a year at most. I can't agree with that. But I do not want some officials to explain to us in this pension case the same — that it is impossible for the state to recover contributions from employers. I say it's possible. Why? I was an espouse myself, and I remember well when I calculated myself; when you pay your contributions through these online tools, the tax administration has given you an extremely quick warning that you owe so much and so much, 15 Euros. In short, I'd say it's almost a cost of information more expensive than the debt itself. And they'll tell you very quickly that if you don't pay for it, they'll go into execution. So, I wonder if this is possible in such cases, why this would not be possible in the case of contributions. And, of course, this amendment would also impose some additional work on the financial administration. In a way, in a meaningful sense, we would go back to that famous SDK that we all sing and praise how good this system used to be. And if we are to protect our citizens, it is clear that we must use such tools and in some way also by means of this amendment to ensure that the country recovers these contributions from fraudulent employers. Because otherwise, these sad stories will still appear. I don't want to hear excuses today. Today it is clear that we have the opportunity, the amendments on the table, but of course everything will depend on our fingers, whether we press one or another button. Today's debate is in one way or another linked to the whole pension system and to what pensions our citizens receive. I am pleased that in this mandate we have been able to do – even with the help of trade unions – here it is necessary to say that no one will say that we are pinning our medals on ourselves – that we have, however, enacted that for 40 years of hard work there can be no lower pension than 500 euros. That's something absolutely good. When this term is concluded in a few months, we will all be able to bring this medal here, and I think we have done something concrete here. But these 500 euros, of course, if you compare this with what the country tells us with its statistics, that the threshold of poverty or the money needed for a normal life is 617 euros, mention that there are still considerable steps to be taken here to ensure that pensioners have a decent life. If I add one more thing that I'm very much talking about, it makes me terribly unpopular: that demography is, unfortunately, unmerciful. Whether we admit it or put our heads in the sand or pretend to be stupid, demography doesn't work for our benefit. If there were 3.5 more workers per pensioner when I was born — in the 1980 ’ s — or if I say domestically that 350 workers worked for 100 pensioners, this pension system could work. Today, there are 137 employees for 100 pensioners and the circumstances are quite different. I know that six months before the elections, no one is able to go into some serious change in the pension system, but for the next term, it will be necessary to take this story first, of course, if we are honest and if we want to provide our pensioners with decent pensions. Because the longer we delay the changes, the more painful they will be. As I have predicted, the New Slovenia Group will support this law, and we will also support the amendments, with the exception of the SMC. This is our decision and, of course, we hope that everything will end happily.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u43	Mr Matjaž Han, representative of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I hope I don't trigger the replica because Matthew is running out of time. It's not my intention to replicate Matthew, but for the public's sake, I just want to repeat two things. We talk a lot, and so do I, about this injustice. But generally, when we adopted the previous reform, so-called Vision's, we have done a general injustice for all people in this country, including demographics. We have reduced, I will say, the rate or now, after the last reform, people receive substantially smaller pensions than they did when people went before that reform, because we are aware that we have an easy older society and that we will have to work longer. So that we have done wrong anyway, and whatever we open today, we will do one wrong. But we must not do anything — that we do not do something with an amendment today to make it easier and better to retire than before 2000. And here, though, I would like to be a little careful — despite the upcoming elections. Now around this amendment of the United Left. [[advertising from the hall]] Left, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. Left. I think we're basically speaking one language right now. The key thing that we have brought in with this article is that people who do not have paid contributions and who do not know that they do not have paid contributions so far will, in any case, be counted in retirement. We all agree here, and I think it's relatively good. Secondly, now whatever we're just talking about, you want automaticism and Furs after this proposal – believe that we're not so smart that we wrote it, that people at the Ministry of Finance wrote it, and we've had a little fight with them, and at the Ministry of Labour – we have to send a decision within 30 days that they're not paid or that they're not paid contributions, both to employers and to workers, and it's going to be in some way automaticism, and then Furs will be able to go into execution. Now, as far as this punishment is concerned. Yeah, they can be big punishments, but sometimes we have to be careful. We have employers, we have employers who get in trouble. And sometimes in serious trouble, unfortunately, it's not right, they don't pay contributions; they pay some kind of tax, they pay the supplier, they don't pay any contributions. And because of this, Furs is going to sue or collect the money they're going to have up there, and he's going to give the penalty. So sometimes we have to be careful. So I think we're on the right track. And since I represented the law in the State Council yesterday – and the State Council is made up slightly differently than the National Assembly, you have employees there, you have unions, you have representatives of the local community – all of them supported our basic proposal unanimously. So the more problem is that we're going to be united, as Matthew said, after a while when we're all going to realize that our clock is beating as far as this demographic is concerned. Thank God we're getting older in some way, in some way people are living longer, I hope they live better, but the longer they live, it's great somewhere, but of course we have problems because we have too little, I'll say, those who pay in cash, and in this regard we're going to have to do something. And if we argued a few years ago that 62, 63 years too old, it's going to be soon, sooner or later, I'm going to say, one digit that we can't even pronounce today is going to be normal in a few years. But for now – I also thank Desus, who helped us in this story – I hope that we will come to a positive story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u45	Before we proceed with the debate of Members and Members of Parliament [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The replica, Matthew Tonin. The Secretary of State and Mr Luka Mesec also spoke. Let's start with the mags. Matthew Tonin, and then we proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u46	When we have on the one hand a limited number of people paying contributions to the pension fund, and when we have on the other hand the number of pensioners growing that number when we accepted this pension reform, no one was interested in extending the working time. [[…]] The only way was to reduce the dose rate. And in fact, it is true that some have a lower pension today than their peers who have retired 10 years ago. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u47	Second replica. A replica? Mr. Luka Moon, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I'm just going to replicate this part where Matjaž Han was talking about employers who got in trouble, but now Furs would still be looking for them. Look, I think the current problem in Slovenia is reversed. It is said that the state, the judiciary and the supervisory authorities are simply too lenient. And as was said at the Odessa yesterday at the 99th anniversary of the beginning of the sentence on behalf of the people in Slovenia – the problem with confidence in the rule of law is that people do not feel that when someone does something wrong, it is also punished that when someone does not pay the contributions, the state enters and recovers them that when the employer is self-confident in one way or another, the state comes and deepens it. And our proposal is, of course, stricter in this sense, and more strictly, precisely for this reason, it is said that laws are actually starting to be enforced in our country. Because if we give again some kind of fine in terms of €450 to €200 for small employers who do not pay contributions, I am concerned that we will continue, as I would say, with a mercy approach for lawbreakers, which has been too often in practice so far. We therefore propose what we propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u49	The text is by Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I'd only give a few brief explanations, because I think there may have been some false arguments in some of the reasons. The first thing to point out is that – and here I will refer mainly to Article 3 and also to what are the amendments proposed by the SMC, by which I think they show a certain understanding of this matter, especially in the direction that I will then specifically point out – we are talking about those cases or only those cases where the pay has not been calculated. If you do not have a pay account, the obligation regarding taxes and contributions does not arise, which means that the Financial Administration does not have a legal title to enter into enforcement. And, it is said, on the basis of some notification, that the Financial Administration will have a basis for its implementation – it cannot go, it is not that. When we talk about when someone is admitted to insurance, the salary has not been charged, but in this case the IRSD is the one that says the Labour Inspectorate is going to see whether payment of wages has been fulfilled or has been made in black, what has happened, and then the action is taken and then the Financial Administration grabs. Which is the beauty or meaning of what I think SMC has tried to bring into law with its amendment; if I make it very simple, they come with a proposal that says that we can say that: let Furs help workers gain rights, not only that he has a retirement age, but that he also has a basis from which he will be given a pension. That's what we're talking about. A higher pension, one that belongs to him. This is an operational solution that will lead to an epilogue at all. Otherwise, we will have another solution that works as little as a toothless tiger, which we already have many. And in addition, it is said, the subtone of this goes in the following direction: we are at a time of conjuncturing, we are at a time of increasing employment, and let us already clean up the labour market of unfair employers. And we can only do this together. It follows that the employee to give certain information on the basis of this information is only possible to start any measure, because then it is established, it is said, the salary has been paid, it is said, the duty to pay the salary has arisen, the obligation to pay the contributions and taxes has arisen and at that time the complex apparatus of the Financial Administration has been seized and carried out the work necessary to ensure that the workers have access to the rights they belong to them. Maybe another one. The figures — 50,000, 30,000, I do not know exactly where they came from, was mentioned by Ambassador Desus. I'd like to point out the next thing. According to the information I have, before the Financial Administration's action, which began in September, 8 000 800 cases were detected when workers were reported to be insured, and the salary was not charged, which certainly does not indicate that they are a violation, but based on the Furs website's publication to be monitored, this figure fell to 3 000 400, says about 60%. It was further subject to controls, where it was then also determined whether the payment was paid or not. And that's what this is all about. With this solution proposed by the SMC, automaticism is ensured; the system will grab and help workers, if we look at it, to acquire those rights that already belong to them under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u51	Representative of the proposer, then Mr. Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u52	Secretary of State, that's what you said. However, if we were a normal country and we were a normal country, I will say from experience in entrepreneurship. [[…]] Furs is monitoring a company for years and years, and if the company is operating years and years, it knows exactly how this company lives, whether it pays taxes, traffic and so on. And to honest employer Furs, normally the sixth day after he paid his wages, if he doesn't pay his contributions, he's already on the phone with that lady you're working with at the tax office, and you can't give an absolute next salary because Furs is already sitting on your tab anyway – right? - if it's normal. The problem was, and this is what we do when you remember that in the Rogaška Glass for five years — and the state owned — did not pay the contributions and the workers did not know because they could not even imagine that the state-owned company was not paying the contributions. And when these people went to retirement, or when they started their retirement, they just didn't have five years. We'll stop it with this law. The way Furs or the Bureau will recover from this is his business. But at least here we set Furs, when he finds out, has to issue a decision within 30 days and inform the employer and the employee. Is that right? And then it's gonna be a glass thing. Yeah, that's how I read it, that's what it says. However, the SMC amendment suggests that if the worker does not initiate the case himself, it is not considered to be an issue, and that is not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u53	We have two replicas, we start with Mr. Miho Kordish, then Mrs. Levicar. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. Yeah, I'm just gonna replicate it, because I think the debate of my colleague Christmas has been tanning to a great extent what I've been saying. See, the worker’s comment on the salary and his height, that he is involved in this process, is a matter both of our proposal and of our amendment as well as of the proposal that we have on the table, and that is what we keep with our amendment. So this right is not denied to the worker at any point. But what the SMC Amendment does is it turns it into an emergency. So if someone doesn't get personal, some worker realizes that his contributions aren't paid and goes to complain, he's gonna lose them, and he's gonna lose his pension, as if it belonged to him. And that's the problem with this SMC amendment. And it is not true that Furs cannot recover certain contributions and that there is no basis for it. I mean, that's exactly what we're putting on the table, so our proposal provides the basis that Furs, as a competent institution, can turn around and recover these contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u55	Mrs. Marinka Levičar has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to Mr Tiln Bozič, State Secretary, when he mentioned some of the information cited by Mrs Desus. From my explanation for the SMC amendment, I read or read, and I thought of the numbers earlier. Furs also checks the REK-1 forms submitted monthly if they show salary payments for all employees, and in the event that REK-1 shows that wages have not been paid to all employees, it also sends a written call. This number, now pay attention, in the period from 1. 1. to 30. 9. In 2017, Furs sent 58 thousand 820 calls for the submission of the REK or the missing REK form. On the basis of the calls sent, the undertakings submitted 35 000 247 REK forms. There are still more than 20,000 missing, almost 30,000, as I said in my debate. In other words, I agree with the predecessors, what they said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u57	Mr Jurša, only Tillen Christmas, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, and then I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u58	Yeah, just for a little while. So this solution is kind of like a two-component adhesive. It has to have two components, if not, no. It's like jumping across a river; in one jump you have to go across. And that's why it's about that. I would be here when the Lady of Desus, the Member of Parliament, also said - hold what you said. For the matter that you have mentioned; I understand that you are targeting other data, it is said, not proposing in this case. This is about something else you're saying. These are calls, it is said, REK, if someone does not submit, of course it is sent, but this is not the basis that you, as a financial management, will be able to recover this debt. For this you must know, it is said, to have either an account filed, either from anyone to obtain information that the payment has been paid, and this is the other part of the two-component glue. This may also be the case here with regard to what Mr Kordish said. So you have one solution that you've said and it's very complementary to it. But in the first part, one thing is written, it is said that recovery would take place for that part, and that is exactly what I am talking about, that it is not possible, until the financial administration has exactly that data, that it is either paid or paid. If we don't have any of these, he can't react. And that is why I say that in this case it is necessary to ensure that this body has an extra tooth so that it can seize the matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u59	Mr. Franz Jursha, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I had no intention of starting a debate like this now. In fact, I just have to warn, I think, the author – this is the Ministry of Finance, as well as the coalition group of SMC – that the State is obliged to establish a system of social insurance, pension, health care and care for its functioning in accordance with Article 50 of the Constitution. For this function, the distinguished gentlemen of the Ministry and the lady, as well as fellow Members and Members of the SMC, will not worry about this as long as we sit here in these parliamentary benches. You cannot and must not tolerate this obligation to an employee who is in a worse, weaker state against the State. Now for the part I was gonna talk about. I will support this marriage. Of course, because this is the law that we and the SD have proposed, and we think it eliminates the injustice that has been done to humans. Now I have to start from the other end. Why? Because I was sitting in my seat at the time — not in my seat, I don't know what number, I was in another seat, but it doesn't matter now. In the beginning, let me also say this: no reform, such as this and otherwise, in our country brings any benefit to the citizen. Let's be real and be honest. The pension reform we adopted in 2012 was not bad and is not bad and sustainable until 2020. At that time, we will actually have to think a little earlier about how we will deal with these things in the future, but in any case, we have to worry about the decent life of our older population. Pensioners, pensioners must have a basis for normal survival, not to live below the threshold of poverty. That's what we know what it means. If I may mention one more thing here. Earlier, someone had said that this matter did not entail the financial obligations of the State, and then immediately thereafter he said that it did. Look at the way you take things. That's up to it now. We know that the pension fund needs to be complemented by funds from the budget and that it is a billion 400 million. This is a relatively very high amount. Of course, we need to give this more when fewer people are employed because fewer people are paid into the pension box. But dear and respected, because in the final stage, this is not just a question of us sitting here. It is a question, but someone who was once the most responsible for this policy said that in 1997 we will give half of the contribution that employers had against workers to develop the economy in our country. That's right. There was enough money at the time, and there was a good amount of money in the pension register. But now things have changed, and in the final stage we can say, "No, this is going to go from the pension fund, and it's going to go that far from the state treasury." If the government doesn't want it to go any more, then let it change things, but there's no government that I'm not going to say, what I'm going to do, because it's afraid of the consequences that will be triggered by employers. If we're talking about populism, I have to say that's not exactly a populist proposal. I wouldn't agree with that. Respected and respected, let us not forget when we had the economic crisis, when we had it, what year we started to say that you were gone. Or did we not, at that time, go into giving pensioners a regression that we coordinated pensions, and on a regular basis extremely, we started these things. And here and today, I must say that we will continue with these matters and want to correct all the injustices that have been done. Here I am thinking mainly of those backlogs that pensioners have not received in the past, and we should get them. Pensioners paid so much of their obligations through their work, their lives, 40 hard labor, even in their retirement allowance, that they must actually have this opportunity at their old age to make a real or normal living. It must be the State that has control over whether contributions will be paid to the pension fund by employers. Once again, a worker cannot be responsible for this matter. I mentioned the Constitution and the article of the Constitution earlier. What you wrote at the Ministry of Finance, along with your colleagues from SMC, doesn't hold up, and I have to say this, and I personally, the parliamentary group that I belong to, will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u61	Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. All in attendance, everyone! Today, in fact, we are quite united about the purpose and purpose of this law. We all agree that this indiscretion or error that took place in 2012 must be corrected in order to preserve people's confidence in the rule of law. This proposal highlights one group of people for whom this would happen, but here we find that there are still some groups of people who, also because of such inconsistencies, may have lost confidence in the rule of law. We talked earlier about those who voluntarily entered the pension insurance by purchasing a single amount of study years or military. We also talked about those who were involved in insurance after 2013 because they were not legally trained — as legally ignorant citizens — what this means for them to remain voluntarily involved after 2013 in insurance. So there will certainly be a very important consideration here, which are all those groups which must be addressed by this law. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Group of Members on how to ensure that contributions would not only be accounted for, but that there would be a much greater likelihood that they would be paid, the following would be said. In fact, I find that all the parliamentary groups are opposed to this amendment. I would just like to lighten this matter from one other point of view, namely that there is quite a practice in us that does not pay this part of the salary, because our legislation also makes contributions part of the salary. And if the worker does not get paid and tries to achieve that this anomaly is eliminated, that is to say that he demands the protection of his rights, we are already regulated in the Labour Relations Act so that he must actively turn to the labour inspector himself and apply. And if none of this is to be rectified after certain procedural deadlines, he must also make a request to the court to ensure that these rights are protected. So that all unnecessary bureaucratic procedures are unacceptable to me, but we should also look here at the worker from this point of view, that this is part of his salary and that it is normal not to view him as a passive object, but an active entity who will enter into this dialogue to have the full salary paid. And why do I think that's so important? For the first time, because we know what limitations all our cash, not just pension, including health, contributions to child care and all kinds of contributions are in these contributions, which would then be accounted for, but not paid. And it seems to me that this is also one aspect that we must pay great attention to. And if I go to this individual aspect of an employee who's not paid my whole salary, I think he's kind of carefree at some point because his retirement period is running out. But what's leaking to him? He's got a retirement period that doesn't give him an entire pension. This means that we are somehow helping if we do not push any more, that the contributions are actually paid, that after a few years such a worker is conscious and realizes that he only has a pensionable period, not a retirement period without a sum. That means he'll have a reduced pension to have deductions. I think that it is certainly here to count with least bureaucratic procedures and I think that this amendment is written in such a way that it foresees some minimal, very simple activity of an employee to give this information, that then there is a greater likelihood that these contributions are paid, not only accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u63	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for the floor. I am very sorry, honourable Members, that my speakers are no longer among us, because I would like to speak to some of them a little, so that I hope they will accompany us in some other way. So, where does the whole thing start and where are we today? The whole thing begins with the intention of proposing to eliminate injustice. As far as this is concerned, no one in this room has a problem. All injustices should be removed — either with PIZ-2 once and for all, or with any other law that corrects all the injustices that have been committed so far. And as my colleague Pojbich said before, let's get this over with. And, of course, what kind of work do we make mistakes? But sometimes it's not necessarily mistakes, but of course it's deliberate behavior and then, of course, we change systems. This is perfectly normal, of course, as in this case, even in any current case, which is also currently running in the National Assembly. But, as my colleague Pojbič says, let's grab the bull by the horns, see what the proposer or what the SD and Desus have grabbed. Of all the people affected, we have heard of data on 55,000 insured, either on the basis of military or on the basis of study years we have acquired a working age. [[…]] Where are all those to whom the SDS reminds us and colleagues Lisec kindly presented us, to whom we could all address the question and eliminate injustices or errors, whatever we will call them, which have been done so far also to farmers, to those who have worked abroad. And what all of you are silent about is that you are full of mouths to eliminate injustices – where are the differences between employees and unemployed disabled persons of the second and third categories of transition between 2012 and 2013? You've all received a letter, or at least the representatives of the candidates, you've received this letter, you know about this case, and nothing happens. Of course, you have operated in the data work so far, for how long it has been for some – so respectable the Secretary of State, who is among us today and has very little time and will find it difficult to answer the questions that I have for him or the Ministry of Labour and, of course, the respected Director of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, Mr. Papež. This is where inequality is addressed. And I'm sorry, the Left has a nice proposal that's very moving me to remove, as far as we're concerned, mistakes and injustices for those who have been paid as unemployed persons by the end of 2012 – why not continue? But unfortunately, she misunderstood and manipulated and, of course, SMC accuses us of wanting to do something bad for the workers. And I am also very sorry for my colleagues in Desus, because I do not know who misled them and on what basis they express what they have said today that we want to burden the worker. Please. Let me read No before I read it. [[…]] Who is the one who has to take care of the worker and make sure that the state protects the worker in this country? Please, if you'll answer me. Who is the person responsible for the position of worker where he is protected as a state in cases of employer infringements? We have also heard a little today about the fact that, of course, it was not in any way accepted that those employers who fulfil not only the statutory obligations but those that they themselves have accepted, because the employment contract is also appropriate, or indeed when it comes to fulfilling obligations, were we in the crisis for any other reason than because of not having fulfilled the obligations that people have undertaken, contractually, at their will? [[...]] And when you talk about how we want to burden workers Please, the Ministry of Labour website, family, social affairs and equal opportunities; the application can also be anonymous when it comes to reporting infringements. [[…]] Under the Labour Inspection Act, supervision of the implementation of laws, other regulations, collective agreements and general acts governing labour relations, wages and other benefits from the employment relationship, employment of domestic and foreign workers, participation of workers in the management, sentences and safety of workers at work shall be carried out by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, unless otherwise specified by the regulations. The worker may report violations of the labour law to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. In order to carry out the procedure effectively and effectively on the basis of the application provided, all applicants need as much information as possible and therefore request that in the application: for the first time, they provide as much data as possible on the offender (the employer is usually the employer, so they should state the full name of the undertaking, the seat, the address, the post and the place) or the legal person, or the name, if the employer is the independent entrepreneur of the individual, the individual acting independently or the natural person, and their place of business or residence of the natural person); for the second time, they describe the infringements (data of the type of infringement and the dates and place of the infringement); for the third time, they attach any evidence indicating the suspicion of infringement services (for example, photographs, documents, data on witnesses, workers who have been violated specific rights and so on); evidence may also be provided by electronic means of the online form and so on. I expect, as I have also said on the working body, that you will intervene in labour legislation and relieve the worker, as you say today. If I read just a few provisions. Article 111, second paragraph of the Labour Relations Act: "Before the extraordinary termination of the employment contract, the employer shall be reminded in writing of the fulfilment of his obligations and of the infringements in writing by the Labour Inspectorate." What we've been listening to. Article 200, first paragraph: "If the employer considers that the employer does not fulfil the obligations under the employment relationship or violates any of his rights under the employment relationship, he shall have the right to request in writing that the employer removes the infringement or fulfils his obligations." Article 201: "Employer and employer may also agree, within the time limit referred to in paragraph 2 of the preceding article, to resolve the dispute with the mediation." Article 216: "If the employer fails to comply with his or her employment obligation within eight days of the worker's written request, or does not remedy the infringement, the worker or the employer may propose the intervention of an inspector in a dispute." I don't know where in the world you can find in the documents we have, and in the proposal of the amendment of the Modern Centre Party to have the worker fill out the REK forms, please! Who let you down so badly? Let's take a look at what the amendments SMC are talking about, and not talk about it. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Škoberne, you will get your word right away, although you have less time, but I will be happy to then answer you further when you get the word. To whom, according to your proposal now before us, should the Pension and Disability Insurance Office inform the employer that he has not paid his salary? Yeah, well, if it's not the employer, who knows? And when the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has already informed in writing about the fact that it has detected in its system that salary obligations have not been settled, why should the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance keep them informed in writing? What's that gonna mean for the employer? What the hell is this? And now it's coming from two sides, because I've already answered one of them, why the other is writing to me. And then the question of who he's gonna be and why he's gonna call him. Who, if not a worker, protects the amendment of the modern center party? We also inform the worker on this route that no obligations have been paid for him, contributions to him; that he has not received a salary, he already knows. This is not a problem that we refer to below. We're addressing what you're being irresponsible about, and I've already said that, and you're insisting. Until the proposalant's representative threatens me. [[advertising from the hall]] When you wonder at what — that the law will not be enforced if one of the amendments is adopted. I'm asking you nicely, to the fullest extent possible. The legislative procedure is clear when the proposal has been tabled and the procedure is ongoing. We're dealing with him at an extraordinary session. Every thing stops somewhere, and I'm sorry that we have only one representative in the National Assembly, which, of course, talked about liberal principles, that we have to make responsible decisions. What can we do if we accept the amendments of the Modern Centre Party? We will achieve a very clear goal, which is that, as has been said, contributions paid as well. Not only do we face the challenges of an ageing population and everything that has been mentioned so far. Unresponsible behaviour and allowing employers to pay their workers a salary at hand puts them in exactly the position you are talking about to protect them from it. This is what my colleague Tonin was talking about; I was only sorry that he started so well and because he could see that what he was talking about is also being laid down by the amendments proposed by the Modern Centre Party. I thought he was talking about supporting them. And then he finally said you wouldn't support them, so I don't know what position he's in, and I'm sorry he's not here because I could clear this up. But let me tell you what the basic proposal was, why didn't the Modern Centre Party sign up and go to the proponents' side of this bill? That contributions no longer have to be paid in order to be paid by those who seem to him, because all the other workers for whom contributions have not been paid will be paid out of common interest, as you have said before, that you wanted to save 2012; and this part we also respect. The sustainability of the pension system, the pension fund. That the pension will be charged to the average wage. And what did the Secretary of State point you to earlier? To the simple thing we're talking about. Therefore, the employer does not need to be reminded that he does not know that he has paid either wages or contributions. He already knows that. We are now alerting the worker and the minimum that I expect from him, not what we expect under labour law, but in this case just to say what kind of salary it is to step on what Mr Tonin was talking about, and I am sorry that he is not here. Of course, the fact that we have a number of workers who get paid by hand can also be satisfied with this can be due to their weaker position in this working relationship. And, of course, the moment and when it is placed in a position to form a month and a month, it can survive, but the consequences await it for the rest of his life. And then, of course, Desus will say that he advocates pensioners, that pensioners must live with dignity. Today, when there is an opportunity for us to get the funds to secure pensions, to ask the employer to settle and pay the obligations, that the insured person has the contributions paid, from which, as the colleague has said, it will be possible to determine the working time without a sum and also establish the basis for calculating the pension, that he will, of course, be able to receive a decent pension in the system and that we will at the same time take care of the sustainability of the pension. It is easy to connect with a small budget, the funds are provided, no problem. And like I started because you were talking about a small job. You are talking at a maximum of 500, trying to minimize that this is not such a problem, while in the Constitutional Court decision that you referred to in your proposal and in your discussions, it is about 11,000 insured people. I hope someone from the Ministry of Labour or the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance will tell you what number we're talking about. And of course, the Secretary of State, since there is no other, I ask you: in the case that he was first proposed, in the case that we have before us today, what will be the basis for calculating his pension? So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u65	I see, Dr. Horvath, you've triggered a real wave of procedural and replication. First it has a procedural advantage, then we'll continue with the replicas. Dr. Matić, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u66	Mr President! I closely monitored the debate of my colleague Mitj Horvat. During the discussion, his colleague Škoberna was intruding him and tried to argue with him, so that Mr Horvat had to calm him in the meantime. Those who debate must have peace so that they can debate and that others do not talk about it or disturb it during its debate. That's why we have a chairman. If we didn't need it, if we only needed it to announce those who will perform, we could have a machine. We have a president to maintain order in the debates, in the public hearings we have here, in public meetings, and I ask you to try to maintain it, Mr President. The same was repeated by Mr Trček, Mrs Godec and Mrs Bratušek. I don't know what it's turning into here, but seriously, please try to do your job. Because now, too [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Here, Mr. Prickle has something else to point out. Best we put beer on the table and we'll have a bar here. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know if the Members can't calm down, but let them stop all of this for half an hour, let them go, let them breathe some fresh air, let them come to their senses, that they may gather. Mr. Chairman, this isn't going anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Dr. Matic. Because I understand that this criticism goes first and foremost to me, I will take it into account. Otherwise, to be perfectly honest, I didn't think any of them were, I'll say, a variety of comments are much louder than ever before. But I'll follow your advice and I'll try to be from now on a little bit more [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, we've got a procedure. But I'll try to be more understanding. We have a new procedural and replica. First, he's got a procedural doctor. Franz Ducky. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't want to go to that ping-pong, but it's not nice to lie. That's my procedural proposal. Don't lie. It's been a lot rougher here. In particular, I had to calm down on many occasions when we proposed something or someone else from the opposition was on this side a “flooder” and in fact there was no action. But I'm glad that after three years, SMC realized that he was in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u69	I don't know if we got along. I don't understand why you told me I was lying, but I think we got along. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I wish it wasn't so loud. Okay, okay. All right, let's continue with the replica. Mr. Franz Jursha, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u70	Thank you very much. In my debate, I also mentioned article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Under the conditions laid down by the law, they have the right to social security, including the right to a pension. This matter is governed by the Constitution in accordance with health, pension, disability and other social concerns. This is said to be the case, under Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, under no circumstances is the State and the obligation, if I understand this matter correctly, to the weaker, it is the worker.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see that there is still interest, so I invite you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. First of all, Mrs. Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I have already discussed on the committee on the basis of what we are discussing today – the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, namely the voluntary inclusion in pension insurance. In fact, it is only right that injustice is being corrected, and that is what we have all come up with. It is wrong that rights are somehow being abolished by some law and then a change of law is reinstated and reinstated. This means that I still believe that it means that citizens or citizens cannot trust in the system because rights are being abolished too quickly and then allocated to them after a period of time. [[…]] In short, I believe that it is certainly necessary to be more careful in the elimination of rights and in the allocation of rights. This certainly doesn't bring, I'll say, citizens' trust in the system. I would now like to touch in particular this amendment tabled by SMC, either in relation to compliance or by sending a PIC form on whether or not the worker has paid contributions. The debate said that this form would be the only guarantor — the only guarantor, it was said — to protect the worker from having paid contributions. I do not believe that this form will ensure that workers have paid contributions. Why? Why not? Since most employers — those who do business well — are already essentially issuing REK forms to establish a system to pay their contributions. If they're not up to 18 in the month, there must be wages, I'll say, paid up, the REK form must be given. [[…]] The person who fails to deliver it receives a notice that the REK did not submit the form. This also happens when an employer forgets such a formality. And when he gets the notice, he has this as a warning and, of course, then he gives this form, which means that it is the basis for the calculation of the contributions. But if he doesn't pay the contributions – now I've talked about the bill – he gets it right away, after five days it's now after we've adopted a package of legislation with 1. This year's 1st, and he gets a reminder. He gets a reminder on the eDavka portal. And if, now, I don't know here, but within fifteen days, the interest starts to run for the first day after that five-day period when taxes are not paid, these contributions are not paid, of course the tax administration approaches enforcement. And that's it, and then all the sanctions follow. Now we're talking about those who don't do it at all, that's what they say, don't give away the REK form. And if they don't broadcast the REK form and they're not perceived as the entities that should be passing the forms, of course, then it can happen that somehow by paying the salary, I'll say they're stalling. Then we have employers, those who are, I'll say, in financial trouble, and the workers are patient with them, and they don't have the first month's pay. All of this is actually happening in the field. But I would like to point out in this that out of 213,000 employers are practically those who don't submit forms, I'm going to say, I think I have some data, about 57,000 we've heard before that they weren't committed, but I have information that about 8 thousand 800 were not submitted forms actually delivered. Because that delay in the target doesn't mean it wasn't charged and it wasn't paid. That's why this system, I'm going to say you can't just simplify and say it, now we're going to solve it with this form. [[…]] And then there are companies that are in a forced settlement, and they're basically in a time when they're in a forced settlement, they just don't give out these forms, and they don't have to broadcast these forms, yeah. And that's why he can't even recover. In short, here are some other things that aren't covered. Now that you've talked and discussed that it's very important not only to charge contributions, but also to pay them. Why? Because if an insurance period is recognised on the basis of contributions that are only invoiced and will be fictitiously recognised, then this worker will have only a pensionable period, which means that if he has unpaid salaries, even for three years, this will happen in the overall pension age when the base is established for 20 or 25 years, he will also have a lower pension, he will be recognised only as a pensioner and will also have a lower pension at that time. And that's why we have to try each other somehow, I'll say, even the workers have to somehow realise that when they get the notice that there are no contributions paid, that somehow, whether they get paid or not, they somehow confirm Fursa. Why? In fact, in order to eliminate at least what could have been paid, I will say that we capture those who have received paid salaries but have not been paid contributions or paid payment in hand, because the salary must be credited to the transaction account. And I think by confirming that workers are broadcasting this form, which they get as a notice, if they're broadcasting it, by writing it, whether they get paid or not, then Furs has the basis to recover contributions from the employer. And that seemed important to us, too. The tax administration, or the Ministry of Finance, also proposes this because this is the basis for the recovery of contributions. And I think we need to be committed not only to admit that the contributions are paid, but also to pay. In fact, as Members, we should not care whether the contributions are paid or accounted for. I think that's where these concepts get mixed up in some way. I'll do it again. For if Furs has information that the salary has been paid but not only charged, then the tax authority may impose and recover obligations on the employer for social security contributions. It follows from the amendments of the SD Group and Desus that contributions should only be charged but not paid. If the contributions are accounted for only, this shall be included, as I said, only in the insurance period and the contributions paid shall be included in the pension base and the worker shall be entitled to a higher pension on this basis. I don't know why [[…]] On the other hand, we see that pensions are already so low, especially with this ZPIZ-2, when 57% of the benefits are essentially the basis of the pension. And that's why the pensions are so low. And then there's another way that contributions won't be paid, and this will make the pension, the basis for that 57%, even lower. That's what I'd like to point out. In fact, the worker is required to do so, and this involvement and cooperation in essence ensures the exercise of his right to pay and strengthens his right not only to retirement but also to a higher pension base and thus to a higher pension. This proposal also provides public funds for the payment of pensions – and, as we have heard before, not only pensions, including health contributions and all other contributions. And by making the cash paid from the contributions, both cash registers, we will make it possible to do so. The amendment we are proposing provides transparency and a basis for employers to actually pay contributions from paid salaries and not only to propose bills. I would, I would say yes, and I might add that. [[…]] I really do not understand why this proposal is also intended to inform employers on the eTax portal. In fact, the employer is informed on the eDavka portal of all unpaid taxes. And I'm basically purely out of practice, given that I'm from entrepreneurship, I don't know what that would do to the employer if I received a return notice on the e-Tax portal. I really don't get it. I really don't understand why I should do it again. Because I'm this form that you all kind of want, I'm taking you know how I take it? [[…]] So you all want to be liked in some way by the workers, what will be done for them. In fact, workers will continue to wonder in one year's time how Members have adopted such a law when these rights should be recognised, and in reality this will still not work in practice. This is because this form will not contribute to the payment of contributions. Sadly, though, when a worker retires, he understands what has been cut short for him, that he does not have the pension he thought he would have, and that he does indeed belong to it. That's why even when you're touching this, since I still have some time. [[…]] Even this correction of this injustice that we have on the table today; but you know, because this calculation for an individual is also a question of if everyone gets a higher pension for this. You know why? Because the insurance period when you pay a voluntary contribution doesn't actually give you a basis for better pensions. You can only retire early. But 30 years, and if you've only paid this pension period for 10 years - those, I don't know, 50 euros and 60 euros, because it doesn't matter what height it was - you had a zero base on the calculation. [[…]] Nothing. Do you know what that means? To spread all of this out over the years, and it's 40 years old. Now tell me whether the base is important or not. And we're, in fact, kind of just being over-like with some suggestions. It bothers me in person, and I will do so in person now, because I was also disturbed by all 25 years of politics in Slovenia, that it never really came from the bottom up systematically and actually. What does that mean for people? There's always just some grades, and then they do what? They do, they fix some injustices to one group of people, and then you do the wrong again to another group, and in two years or one year or four years from now, another group will recover. And then people don't know what's right to pay and what's wrong with paying. And even more unacceptable is the fact that 2013 was allowed to contribute further, even though it was from 1. 1. 2013 knew that this pension period would not actually apply. I don't even understand what I heard in the debate today. I have to say, I don't understand how this could have happened. You see, and none of this is done systematically. And it is true that then things are being resolved for the good of the people we want to be today. The nicest thing to do is to take something in half, and now you like it on TV because, yes, now you've done something, and then people are, you know, disappointed when it comes to calculating your pension and they see that it's not like that, or it's not what they expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On one occasion, Zoran Predin, on one of the contact shows led by Uroš Slak, said that everyone had the right not to understand. Similarly, Plato also advocated this thesis in the State – I think you all know what kind of work I'm talking about – but the movement is made up of a familiar path, which is what it is, and everyone has the right not to understand. First of all, a sincere apology to a fellow Member of Parliament, Dr. Horvath, because, yes, I have disturbed his debate, but sometimes these differences in perception of the country and our role here are so great that from the values we come from, there is a more violent reaction. Once again, my sincere apology was not meant to be disrespectful. However, the purpose of this law is something that I have understood from the introductory positions of the parliamentary groups that we all agree on and that we can say that it is a reliable rectangle. But when I listened to the debate and in the debate in question, my colleague Horvath, it seemed to me that he was showing me a rectangle and explaining that it was a circle. I know for a fact he's a rectangle. And the purpose of the law at two points is to ensure, through the prism of the country's role, that the rights of workers guaranteed by the State – even through the obligation to be included in the insurance system – cannot simply be transferred to the burden of an employee who is against the employer, the capitalist, can also be expected by a weaker party and rightly expected to be adequately cared for by the State for the obligations it imposes on it, with all the apparatus it has. And if today we have come to the point that we are discussing that a worker must have data that Furs has, that the state knows about default, that the state itself is executing the execution, but now we will tell us, but still, a worker, preferably on a minimum wage, let him watch himself; even though we know, we will let him know, yes, but let him worry. But we don't agree here. I do not see the role of the country in that where it can help, where it actually protects its primary interest because the payment of contributions is in the interests of the country more than the worker. [[…]] Since the state has a mannequin in the cash register where it goes and the state should make sure that it recovers from the non-payer, but not that it imposes this burden on a worker who, on the one hand, is to deal with the fact that he does not have a recognised working age; on the other hand, it should also fight to ensure that the State receives in its own register the money owed to the State by its employer. Yes, there are also differences in the political spectrum and you will find, respected colleagues and colleagues, some that today, with the exception of the middle, exclusively the middle of almost the entire spectrum – O.K., colleague Christmas exempt – understands the role of the state in the same way. But someone with an amendment is trying to say that it is right that the state, the state bureaucrat, the state apparatus does its job avoids and puts it on employees, on workers, on workers, whatever you want. And at the principle level, I cannot agree with this and therefore I cannot support the SMC amendment. Besides, I think we're doing the right thing, and if the problem is that instead of saving thousands of 500 wrongs, we're saving 8 grand or 11 grand, then it's certainly not something we should be ashamed of. Shame on us. Maybe we're not saving any more. And yes, Comrade Horvath, we can also go into the details of who and why he put us in a position when we wanted to gain support for this law, that we had to take steps back. Fortunately, there are correspondences, luckily, there are original documents. And I think it's right that we have different views of the country and it may be good that we have, even after three years, but we have come to a point where we have found where our fundamental disagreement exists. I think the role of the state is to do more than it should, especially where it has to protect a citizen when he is in a weaker position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Mitja Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Scoberne, I never thought for a moment that your apology was necessary. I understand the reaction, and I also understand that I caused it with my own debate, so I have no problems and even if there was no excuse, it would be accepted and there would be nothing left between us in the air. But I have to say from the replica that you misunderstood me. I wasn't talking about squares and circles, and I wasn't saying that the square is a circle and so on. But what I have said is that this comes from what you have just said in the end, but something else, which was in the undertone, is not explicit and you certainly couldn't understand me or, as you say in the introduction, because everyone has the right to understand the reality in his own way, to be wrong and to understand something else. That's why we're here and that's why there are so many different parties and so many different views within the parties. And what is on the table here today and what we are talking about in the second reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance is, of course, that we are breaking opinions, arguments. On all sides, there has been a misunderstanding of what we have with the amendments Because it was not possible and you have been offered, both in SD and in Desus you have received our amendments and you did not want to submit them. [[…]] Because you didn't want to understand them because you didn't want to hear the arguments for them because you didn't read them. As I said before in the debate – I don't know who has misled you so much and I will leave this rhetorical question and I won't answer because I know who very well. What I would like to stress is – and I understood this in this part, as you mentioned before the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members, as the colleague of mags said. Alenka Bratušek, as I said before, luckily there is at least another liberal in this national assembly who understands the need to make socially responsible decisions – we have not imposed any burden on the workers, we do not impose this proposal on the table in the form of an amendment, for which a respected colleague Han said that if we take it, then this law will not be enforced in time and that no amendment should be adopted today. And of course, because you didn't want to understand, you misunderstood me; it's not about imposing additional obligations on workers. If we are to protect the worker as a country by various authorities, let him tell us what to protect him about. All we want from him is that after he gets the notice that he wasn't paid for, because he obviously knows for his salary — except when he gets his hands on it — that the state has detected and only asks him what kind of salary he's getting and what kind of salary he should get [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u77	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u78	but he didn't get it. [[…]] If we want anything at the Modern Center Party, it's to protect the worker.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u79	It's been three minutes, Dr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u80	But I could go up on that question and wonder who else would want a SMC in this case. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u81	Dr. Horvath, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u82	and to protect the worker in general. [[…]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Unlike most others, I'll try to be non-pulsistic if I can. And at the start, I can say that this is how I feel: either I kill myself when I cry or I kill myself after I somehow cry. Why? We are here talking about some of the people who have been literally fucked by some of the previous political configurations. I used to talk to Hanzek. He was here. This is the subject that Hanzek dealt with when he was the Ombudsman. And he came to the government that was before Janša's government the week before, and he was talking to Janša's government, and Hanžek has not been the Ombudsman for ten years. And yes, Vinko says it's okay. Okay, Vinko won't be able to be an MP anymore, and we'll miss him. But okay, let's be serious. Another fact is that we are six months before the elections and that 36% of the elective body is pensioners and pensioners. Now you're going to pass out, because in fact the pensioners and the pensioners are going to elect us. We don't have policies for less than 40 years, my generation is already raising their hands over us, asking me how it is given to you and no one is asking, first, how this injustice happened and when I listen to it, and then the form down the form up, I ask myself, with Zeus God and Mrs Štefki Kučan, where I live and in what century I live! [[…]] In the 21st or in the, I don't know, period of cuneiform. Natasha Trček – who is not related to me, at least without me knowing – said because we have everything, because we see everything, we know everything. Then what's the problem? Yeah, and now you're nodding your head. You're the Secretary of State, sir, you have to be careful that with the shovel taxes fly in. The problem is that we also have a "and this is" tax policy. Serious countries have a tax policy as an instrument for development, but tax policy is too costly for us. We have a tax policy: cut the man until he can be cut. And after three years of what I am rocking, this peak may have been seized by the SMC before the elections, so that the vast illogicality is actually said in between and that now they cannot live when once their amendment does not go through. Well, "fucking the sun," I can't say anything else, I've been stuck here for three years, and most of us don't get over it. Don't warn me, buddy. Then I should be here, I don't know, 500 times already, snarling so much that I don't know what else to start the dispatch centre in Slovenia, compared to Mr Mitja, who I hope will be a good opposition member if the half-life of the law for SMC. And now, the opposition would usually cut itself, where more Esdesians are, how are you now in the coalition by the end of your term of office? But we should be killed, I can't tell you anything else, and we're dealing here with people who barely survive. For about a decent life in Slovenia, the pensioner should have EUR 800 pension at least – 73% or 72% and still lacks EUR 800 pension. Right now, we've been reading OECD data all day. Yes, the minimum wage in Slovenia is too high, it is too close to the median. Yeah, why is it too close to the median? Because three-quarters of a folklore, which still has chess, earns less than the average wage. I'm afraid I'm also the perfox who taught this for years. And those are the problems, and that's someone cooking. And he says, Mr. Fox, yes, we were wrong. Okay, we're wrong. Hanžek became the Ombudsman in 2001, we are in 2017. Another type of injustice that is now mentioned So you're pinging a little, one against the other, it's more of a coalition; it's an explosion to me; I don't have it because of that, too, I don't have it on purpose with me; my work cell phone, where my e-mails fly in — and all these injustices. [[…]] Yes, injustices must be removed, but the reasons for the injustices must also be removed. I was part of some entrepreneurship, too. Sit there in the SMC lady who can confirm that. And once we didn't have money for wages, and I gave it to the Smurf to pay the workers. I too have this experience that I won't always listen to, sociologists just tease, up and down. And we were honest in that sense. I have told many times, when a good friend tells me, a lawyer says because she deals with these exploitations of workers: I feel that in Slovenia most of the business starts already in the beginning as a stretch. Well, then it's simple. You're going to put a loss on one company, you're going to get a bonus on another company. And we know it all and we see it again, Natasha Duck, we see it all. And why is this happening? Now something you blame one worker I mean, now this logic as you explained in the SMC, I will fall out of Parliament, I will lick stone as they tell me in Maribor those who love me. [[…]] Vinko will retire, then we'll go into one business, it's more off, he'll give me something on hand, then you'll call me, Ducky, or Vinko put it on your hand. Yes, it is. Yeah, I'm sure I'll tell you that, yes, Vinko gave it to me. I mean, where do you guys live? This is mockery from these poor workers who work in this way. In Bosnia, almost the whole economy still works in this way because they have 50 or what, 54% of the unemployed. And I asked them, well, how do you live, and they explained it to me. But why are we going against such economies rather than against other economies? This is essentially a question that we have to deal with. You'll sell everything to strangers. What, the aliens are gonna be better? The "kid" will be better. Why would he be better? 2% will be better, and profit will get out. NNP's looking. Dude, do we understand what we're talking about? Better than GDP. I'm not gonna explain this right now. I don't have time. When we're a big client, I'll give you a lecture on that. And these are some things. Now let's get high here. Slobber around these pensioners. If we are not radical, I apologize to the pensioners and pensioners, change the economic model, there will be no where to pay pensions, and with such a snuggle, even from Vinkot's pension, I don't know how big it will be. He's gonna have to have some cornfields over there, and he's gonna have to plant something. And that's not funny. These are the things you've cooked in a quarter of a century. Now, one key question is, are we going to have an economy to cut sausages from people, or are we going to start acting responsibly? A man goes to work so he can live a decent life. Cerar has a mouthful of dignity. So he can afford something after all. It is our job to provide him with these terms of reference. Since the Left, formerly the United Left in Parliament, we have always been looking in the balance sheet of the budget, where to find money for more people in the labour inspectorate. This does not interfere with the fiscal rule, but always SMC tells us: “Yes, we have a fisscot, we have a fisscot.” It's an insult to the intellect, you know. I'm moving something from one point to another. I'm not lifting anything. Yeah, it's not. And you always turn us down. You'll probably run these amendments over this year. Now you're going to push something up and down here. These are the facts. These are the facts we know. If a person wants to rent a loan, a Swiss loan, or something else, will he have to do a doctorate in finance and a Ph.D. in suspense? But the worker will have to, what — to watch, to watch, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to see, to whom he is not being I mean, the task of the National Assembly is also to ensure that the human being has the right to regeneration, right? [[…]] Then she will say to the MP from the SMC: Then just before retirement she finds that so many and so many contributions have not been paid. Natasha Duck, SDS quota, I think SD, sorry, maybe even a little Desus, we have all the data. [[…]] Then give me this logical surgery. [[…]] Is it that hard? You probably have to look back at the burden of proof, and you have to look back at something you prescribed for your ex-lover and someone else's cold cousin. But I have no illusions here. Did the gentleman who has this in Germany over said: "Look, 30% will then prove themselves to us in the end." Because they have successful lawyers. This is where we touch the lawyers' parties, and now I wouldn't name anyone here who's been a human rights doctor. These are essentially the things we're dealing with, and this is the core of this problem, but not here now, you're going to be beating whether this form is one way or another. Don't let this fly on my student personally. I'm a basic science-mathematic technician. I've mostly sprayed it, but I'm not talking about two-dimensionality. Spherical geometry of the Lobačevsky and so on. We live in perplexity times, and such people must also be in Parliament. But not to talk, I don't know, the bottle stands like that or the bottle stands a little bit different. I'll say, some way this debate is going on now and how you woke up six months before the elections and how you're going to solve something and how you're going to do something between you if someone else has some bone marrow, I mean, such policies and such parties belong to a political history dump. [[…]] Yeah, bone marrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u86	Thank you very much, colleague Hainz. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, first of all some questions and answers. Is this change in PIZ making a deviation from the existing pension uniform established by 1. 1. 2013? The answer is very clear — no. Next question: why are we making a change to this PIZ? The answer is very simple. We work because we change the law because many people believed, trusted in the laws, trusted in the system of pension and disability insurance, and were deceived, disappointed. In the same breath, of course, let me say that I do not criticize here the pension reform adopted at the time and at the time, with the deadline of entry into force 1. 1. 2013 and there is no criticism for all those Members who have simply overlooked this matter. Today, we are trying to pull together, to join forces, so that we can fix what has been overlooked in one way or another. We are working to fix, yes, I will repeat, the injustices to all those who have been committed, for the first time, to restore people's confidence in the system, in the rule of law, both the current pensioners and those who will enter the pension scheme over the years, and, of course, for the third time, to provide higher pensions to those who have paid voluntary contributions to pension and disability insurance. Third question. What population was affected? The population of the most vulnerable target group was affected, who were unemployed, receiving cash social assistance, some 100 euros, 280 euros, and of these 280 euros were collected and paid 60 euros on their own, voluntarily for the purposes of pension and disability insurance. Of course, money did not go to nothing, it is necessary to know; it was possible for them to have gone to retirement earlier, to have received a pension before, but this pension was lower – 0.3% per month, it could have borne up to 15 and more percent less than it would have received. And by doing so, we are allowing repairs, revitalisation, that is to say, recalculation and pensions will, of course, be raised here. When we did Ali did and the last question. [[…]] [[…]] Is that retroactivity? I don't think so. But if anyone wants to demente me, yes, let it be retroactivity; last but not least, they have paid in the past for something they cannot benefit from today. So if it's retroactivity, thank God it is. But I say it isn't, and if it is, so be it, but it's about justice. When it comes to financial implications, financial assessments of the amendment of this law; at the moment there is no loser, there is no hero who can accurately assess what these financial consequences will be, how many people will run the calculation request again, the recalculation of pensions. If there is not 2 million here and something that we have foreseen for the amendment of this law, perhaps 5 million, there can be more; the budget, calculate how many miles this is, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is about 9.6 billion, and this is a few million. And when it comes to justice, honesty and correctness to the most vulnerable target groups, forgive the expression, I think these couple of millions of assets. [[advertising from the hall]] Today, the Social Accounting Service, the so-called SDK, was mentioned. Yes, today we no longer have the pity of social property. But the job that was here, I'm going to risk saying, fear and trembling in some previous system and doing my job very correctly, and I think today is the last time we're going to set up something like this. It can also be called something else, it can be called the SPK, the Service of Fair Accounting, but the state has enough institutions to allow people to be charged contributions, paid contributions, and that there will be no such thing as under the table, above the table, between the table and so on and so on. Let me put it another way. I don't have much time. With the amendment of this law, both employers and trade unions agree, and this is an important information in this area, an important information, and at the same time I do not want here Many times during the discussion was mentioned, and those ugly employers who do not pay, and how many of them, and how all of them fly to the workers. [[…]] I believe they are also such employers, but at the moment there is no witch-hunting, not hunting them and not looking for them with a magnifying glass, but simply through some systemic solutions we are trying to find that people will be decently rewarded for their work, for their tightening the belt, even in the past and even today, that they will not be rewarded, paid for their work, so that they can live decently and after 30, 40 and more years of tearing from their mouths and proper and concrete work can enjoy the fruits of this work in decent and decent pensions. At the end. We will by no means allow in Desus any additional burden on weaker parties in the process, that is, workers, we will not let them prove that they have been played and we simply cannot support this amendment proposed by colleagues in the SMC. However, I hope that we will unanimously support the law amending pension and disability insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Nice greetings again to the representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues and all those accompanying this meeting! Let me say that from the very beginning, it is clear that Members of the SMC Group will support the basic law. We also confirmed this by voting on the committee. There's no doubt about that. We were just pointing out the fact that it's gonna happen to us because you're already getting and getting emails and calls during this session, and what about us, and what about my case? People will ask us why we haven't fixed other things. It's a lot of things. That's what we talked about. Basically, we're going to solve one part of the problem, and there's going to be a lot of things left to solve. Here we're going to cause some additional problems so I don't talk about injustices now. And that's it. And now we're going to our amendment at 3. the amendment of the SMC Group of Members. I would like to say clearly and loudly that we all want to achieve the same result. This is that after the pensioner has been paid, the worker will have an adequate contribution to the pension fund and will then have a pension so that the cases as they have happened will not happen. But we do have a different view of how we actually achieve this effectively. And that is all we want to present in this amendment, to say, because we have our own opinion, and on the basis of some of the experiences that many of us have in practice with recovery, including claims, enforcement of claims, we are sure of some things, and we are trying to present these arguments. And that's all we do. We want to make the best, most effective arrangement we can think of. We think it can be done now that we have the chance. If you disagree, you will vote against it, but the purpose is to tell us what we think about it and what we think should be taken into account. We want the amounts to be paid – because the law talks about the bill if the employer does not charge the contributions – and they also pay to take account of the actual height, because, like the colleague and here there is no question of some forms and sheets, then the question is how much pension base and the question is how much pension base will be taken into account and how much pension will then be at the end of the pension. [[…]] After all, we all want the worker to have as much pension as possible, this is the one that will correspond to how much the worker has paid to be charged and paid for. If he's not paid, then the state will recover him. Is that right? And we have our position and we represent it, and that is why this is not an ideological question and I will also explain why I think it is not an ideological question and we represent it, we want to present it, and this is the whole story. In particular, we have received warnings from the Ministry of Finance that this is a lot of time to pay hand in hand. That this is a case where the employer gives the employee a hand-to-hand payment and this is a grey economy. And we all want to fight it. And so, among other things, we tabled these amendments and gave this opportunity to the worker, and we suggested that we give the worker the opportunity to do so. Of course, we agree that the worker must receive a notice from the institution that the employer did not account for the tax evasion. What's it say here? That he didn't charge for the tax evasion. And after receiving this notice, we do not say that the state is not obliged to do anything. And with this proposed solution, of course, we agree. Yeah, he's gonna get a notice, and it's wrong that he didn't know it didn't happen. And then he'll be able to call Furs, write on Furs; there's not a single hand in which he'll do something. But why, why? In order to have a higher pension base, because we now do not know what the pension base is in the law or that it will tell us what the actual salary it received — this information to the employer — or that it will allow Furs to exercise control and then in the process determine how much the actual payment was to take into account in the calculation of the pension, the pension base. One more thing, we say the state will recover.O.K., we will recognize the worker's pension base, settle it, and then the state, if the employer doesn't pay, will recover it. Now, please, this is not an ideological question, this is something I know for sure from practice, and my colleague Trček will believe me – if you don't have the amount of claim, if you don't know what the amount of claim is, you can't recover it. Excuse me, you can't do anything; the first and the main thing is to know the amount of the claim you're recovering. Do you agree? It is the amount of the claim and for this reason, because we want to get this information from the employee, it seemed reasonable and effective for us to give this information to the employee Furs. This is the only reason that then all the information that Furs and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance must be derived from this to be accounted for and, if necessary, recovered from this contribution. If you don't have the amount of the claim, you don't know what you're recovering and you can't recover. I accidentally recovered quite a few claims in court and no amount of claim, which is one of the grounds for recovery. And see if we can't recover from the assumption that we're going to recover this, we're going to return the contributions that haven't been paid; if the worker doesn't do it, the country will. [[…]] Okay, but if we don't figure out how we're gonna put this back in the state budget, can you tell me how we're gonna get it back? We won't or what? Who's gonna pay for this? All of us. If we don't have the amount of the claim determined, we won't have to recover it, but convince me otherwise. If you can sue someone to recover the claim, you have to have the amount of the claim. Height, me height! Among other things, this is not just the foundation and height, it is the basic thing we have. Therefore, this debate is intended to do so, that if only what is proposed by the proposer is accepted, then these matters, which you want to make work the way you want, will not work. And once again we will accept something in good faith that we have accepted a good solution, just as you have accepted the ZPIZ-2. Okay, well, I probably would've taken it back then, because everyone thought it was necessary, I don't see anything. But now we're going to do it again because we think it's a great solution, and we're going to take it. But our thought is that it will not be true and that it must be complemented for these reasons, which may seem technical but not technical, are substantive and contribute decisively to the future recovery of the claim and the calculation and calculation of the pension base and pension. I understand it in this way, and I am now warning you, frankly, without any intention whatsoever, that I do not know what is involved in an ideological debate or anything. Just to act responsibly, if you want us to act responsibly and really make sure that we have made a decision that will have a significant impact, that we will not then say, but maybe we should take it and then we will fix it later. I don't know, I mean, I know, that's why I'm saying it now. Then, if that changes, we can just tell me wherever we are, we're taking it, but it wasn't accepted, okay. And now, as far as the worker is concerned; this is one of the main themes today, this ideological charge that I don't want at all. Yes, of course, the worker has the right to special protection in our legal order. They also have a contract of employment, which is not an ordinary bond contract, but is subject to a special regime. A special regime where, of course, it always takes care of the rights of the worker. The worker here is the weaker side and they are appropriate This is what the state has done to protect the rights of the worker. [[…]] But always, with all this protection and care, and in this form, which we will introduce by official duty and all records, it is still a worker who must take care of his rights at one stage. We will not make it clear that everything will be recovered and regulated by the State for the worker on an official basis. To call on Furs, writes on Furs something, is entirely in line with all the other obligations that the worker has and is not charging now I don't know but it is in his interest to allow the state to know the amount of that claim that will be taken into account in the calculation and in the recovery of this claim. [[...]] That is why we want to make it easier for the worker by means of this form that we are introducing, but also by allowing him to obtain a higher pension, a real pension from the actually calculated and paid contributions from the actual amount he has received. And here I do not think that we can have one obligation that is not disproportionate to the actual benefits it will have from this. This is our proposal, this is our opinion. We can agree or not, but there is no ideological debate here at all, because we already have the rights and obligations of the worker covered in the legal order and this one, which we are proposing, is absolutely nothing beyond what the workers already have. If you don't agree, you don't agree, but there's a risk that you'll deprive the worker of certain things when this thing starts to happen. And I really doubt that this arrangement without this amendment will work as you want and as we all want. That's all it is. And that's why I'm going to support the SMC amendment. This one really hurts, official logic. Official logic may exist, but this is not official logic. If you know what won't work in practice, despite the best of intentions – that can be the question, yes, one call, one sentence in marriage – and you know that this will cause consequences that you don't want, and in fact, you're telling the intention to fix one thing and you're actually going to achieve 50% of that or even less, then that's not official logic, that's the logic of a good master. Firstly, we want to take care of the worker, as I said, that he will have his pension accounted for from what was actually paid. Only he can report this in most cases. And we also want to see that any unpaid contributions that the State has to recover can actually be recovered. This is the logic of a good master who cares that we will all have pensions and that the worker will also have a higher pension once he is retired. I don't know why we can't express this, why we can't say this, our concern, based on all the experience we have in some real world, in real life. We think that this thing will work better on the basis of our amendment, but that we will not really burden the worker, as is now claimed, disproportionately, and that now he will be some great poor man here whose system will not work. Just the opposite. And for these reasons, I will support the SMC amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Look, because I mentioned it. Firstly, the relationship between work and capital is a key ideological issue of capitalism. And we live in capitalism, whatever it is. Secondly, Jasna said very nicely where the key problem was. The key problem is that we have legislation that is not even so bad but is not implemented. Thirdly, what you want to do in the SMC is, in fact, we will continue to have such a political economy that will be half-deceptive; because Furs knows, “mother dear”, how much someone has. What if someone gives someone their hand and we have to ask ourselves why they put it on someone's hand? Maybe I'd pay the prize, but tax policy is wrong. Maybe it's some kind of activity, maybe someone cheated on the owner, someone else can't. You don't even understand the economy, and you're taking it the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Pogacar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u92	Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u93	Excuse me, Ministry of Labour. / laugh in the hall /
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u94	Today is very important, yes. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. However, when I listened to this debate today, I recalled once again how extremely difficult matter is the issue of pension law, and I would like to explain to the debaters just a few things, because it was exposed, but not that I wanted to teach anyone, but it was necessary. See, with the applicable law of ZPIZ-2, the rate of pensions was not reduced compared to the previous law. The lowering of the dose started with the 2000 Act. The 2010 law, the so-called Svetlik Law. 2012, Visionary's law, which was then actually adopted, stopped the fall of new pensions. This is essential, perhaps for discussion. Mrs Shergan was very much in favour of the fact that those who had voluntarily paid their contributions to have nothing on the foundation. The basis is zero, but the period during which he paid voluntary contributions is not included in the order of 24 years for the calculation of his pension base. This needs to be stressed because you've talked about 40 years, and how many years it's going to take, it's not like that. Well, these are the details that are important, but I think it's best that I just warn all the Members of Parliament about them. But these are really technical things, but it's still the right thing to say. Thus, the same applies to cases where contributions have not been paid. The periods in which contributions have not been paid will not be counted to the insured person for a period of 24 consecutive years for the benefit of the pension. This is also very important for the debate. When I compare the proposal of the law that is here today and the SMC's proposal for commitment, I would like to explain only this – also the proposal of the law that is before you today, it is said, which was drafted with the amendment on the home committee, that is essentially the same. The notice to the worker is very important. The employee of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office shall inform that the employer did not charge contributions for him. That's the first thing that informs him. Secondly, inform the worker of the consequences; this is important for the worker’s awareness that the worker knows. Thirdly and for my assessment, the most important issue: precisely, it will be a clear institution – we will make sure that the information is not technically complicated – informs the worker of the possibilities he has for securing his rights. You can contact the court, you can contact the labour inspectorate, you can contact the Financial Administration, all of these options, and at the same time call the insurer, this is now in law, in this proposal, which was formulated on the home committee, an invitation to the insurer to make a payment, including its height. The only difference is that this obligation under the proposal that is before you today, if a worker fails to fulfil this obligation, does not affect his right to recognise the pension age, only that is the difference. The amendment, however, speaks of the need for him to react, must inform him, otherwise he will not have the recognized right to a retirement age, just that. But the present article, which is being considered here today, speaks of the fact that the office of an employee who has not been charged by the employer will inform him of this. Because I'm running out of time, that's all I'd say. This article, which is here today, I hope that you will accept it, of course, is very important, no matter how technical this exercise will be. But you know why it matters? Since it is important that it is accepted, otherwise workers from 1 January 2018 who will not be paid contributions will not have a recognised retirement period. That's what the National Assembly wants to avoid. I hope I haven't been too long, so thank you very much for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u96	Thank you very much. For three and a half hours, we've been discussing for almost four hours – you're debating because I'm the first to speak about – the amendment to one article. I mean, we in this composition of the PIZ-2 would never have taken it that way. The Secretary of State has now replied something. However, I expected him to say that this amendment was unnecessary or that the rights of workers were even smaller if this amendment was adopted. So I now understood the answer that the worker is committed to doing something compulsory and the rights remain the same. I don't know why three hours doesn't get someone to call the Legal Service and tell us who's right in this room right now. You've been fighting for three hours. They say something here, they say something else here. I mean, people, if they're watching us, they're gonna say we're not even full moon. [[…]] Really, someone have the legal and legal services come to explain. But as the Secretary of State has said very briefly now, I understand that everything is in fact the same, only to take away an obligation from the worker. In case he forgets to report that what he's got is true, he has the same rights. Well, then we impose an additional obligation on an SMC worker and, if he accidentally lets it go, he will be deprived of certain rights. I hope we all understand this the same way now, and that's how it is. And if that's the case, I hope the SMC doesn't support it either. You may have misunderstood, but let's be smart and finish the debate on the law, the content. It's a good purpose, but today, with all this three-hour talk, you've really failed. It's okay for people to come back. It was a mistake. I voted for it. That's when we weren't warned. And let us really talk in a way that we know what we are talking about. And if it's a dilemma, I think we have a legal-law job in the National Assembly, and we could have asked her a few questions earlier. That's why they're probably with us to help us clear up certain things and certain dilemmas without arguing with different explanations here, and I don't know who decides. The law is good, the law is necessary, and let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I think the State Secretary's explanation was clear, so I think that and actually deals with 24 hours a day, we can almost say, with these problems. [[…]] [[…]] Okay, does anyone else want to talk about Article 1? Don't you? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the debate. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, I would like to put to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SMC Group of Ambassadors. [[…]] Anybody want to talk? Don't you? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes the first item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the application of rights from public funds. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members, first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Ivi Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u98	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Initially, I would like to point out that in New Slovenia we are working to separate family policy [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u99	I'm asking for a little peace so the lady can read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u100	from social policy. [[…]] Family policy must be separated from social policy. However, Cerar's government has repeatedly shown that it does not value the family as the basic cells of society and does not want to adequately support and protect it, as the Constitution also imposes on it in Article 53. The fact is that savings measures have already been released for all areas except for families. Not only that; many areas receive high additional funding, not to say pre-election candy, but families should find themselves alone. And when we emphasize that families and children are the greatest wealth of our nation, we will not stop reminding ourselves of the injustices that are just drifting from the past. It is unacceptable to save on the shoulders of students, students, children, and families, while 5 billion taxpayers’ money is invested in banks that have apparently laundered money. This is why we have already tabled several laws in New Slovenia this year to eliminate austerity measures, such as free kindergarten, assistance to young families in the first resolution of the housing issue, and in June we have tabled amendments and amendments to the law that we are considering today. Please understand them as measures to eliminate inequalities and discriminatory treatment of children and families. We propose four main solutions. First solution, re-introduction of the child allowance for all income classes. The second solution is not to take into account the child allowances of younger brothers and sisters in the State grant calculation procedures. The third solution, the reintroduction of a state scholarship also for families belonging to 53 to 64 and the new 56 to 64 percent of the average monthly salary per family member. And for the fourth time, our proposal for a solution, the abolition of non-conformity with the constitution in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the law. In the absence of a 75 % gross minimum wage, this article attributed the so-called fictitious income to the socially weakest, culturally employed and other forms of espionage. As a result, their access to social transfers was hampered, making their social situation worse. These solutions follow the constitutional principle of the protection of the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth – Article 53 of the Constitution – and the principle of the best benefit of the child, the principle of long-term sustainability of the pension system and fair distribution of goods. New Slovenia is a party that can listen to people and fight inequality and discrimination against families. These proposals are the result of initiatives and calls from many citizens. We believe, fellow Members and fellow Members, that families, especially children, will not be denied support. We have proven several times that in the field of work, family and social affairs we know how to go beyond the political parties' borders, step together and support solutions for the benefit of citizens, particularly those who are weak. I ask you to support the law, and I propose that you support it and support it together in the first reading, and then we will carry out a second hearing and adopt it as soon as possible. Our families and children deserve a just society where everyone will have equal opportunities to develop their potential, which means that they will have equal access to education.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u102	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Certain measures introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act are still in force today, in accordance with legislation, including the year following the year in which economic growth exceeds 2.5% of GDP and, at the same time, the growth in employment rates in the 20-64 age group exceeds 1.3 percentage points. According to the official data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016, which was published by the end of September 2017, the economic growth was 3.1% and the growth in the rate of activity was 0.9, which means that both so-called anchors for the release of all austerity measures in the previous year have not been met. However, regardless of this, due to economic growth, due to increased income from the fact that today 50,000 people are more employed than they were three years ago, certain austerity measures in the area of family benefits have already been released. From 1. 1. In 2016, the children's allowance in the 5th and 6th grades is thus higher by 10 %, and in part the last 5th Income Class for State grants has been released, so that investors are entitled to a state grant where the average monthly income per person in the previous year does not exceed 56 % of the net average wage before the application is submitted. The law on scholarships is from 1st. 1. In 2014 he also reintroduced state scholarships for underage students, half as planned for students. The release of the entire 5th income class would mean that the grant is justified by investors whose average monthly income per person is between 56 and 64 % of the net average wage. The basic amount for scholarships of €35 and €70 for the 5th Income Class should also include all other allowances: an allowance for stay, an allowance for success and an allowance for special needs scholarships. The Government has prepared its proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, which already implements the Constitutional Court decision and proposes, inter alia, a partial release of austerity measures. The introduction of informational calculations on annual rights is an essential novelty brought by the proposed law. In this way, the exercise of annual public funds rights for all beneficiaries will be significantly facilitated, while at the same time employees at all social work centres will be significantly relieved. The proposal has already been forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. As already stated, due to the state of public finances, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can only phase out austerity measures, and therefore the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds proposes the release of austerity measures in the child allowance, which means the reintroduction of the 7th and 8th Income Class. In addition to the above, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already sent a new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits to the Government for confirmation, proposing, inter alia, the abolition of austerity measures in respect of the rights to support the birth of a child and the allowance for a large family. Dear Members, the best position of children in Slovenia is our common goal. On the basis of the provisions of the Family Code, Slovenia has already established a permanent professional consultative body, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Children and Family. For the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it performs professional and consultative tasks and provides assistance in the preparation of regulations and monitoring of the situation in the field of children and the family. For all of this – because of the proposal already tabled by the Government, the Government has already forwarded it to the National Assembly, which is releasing some of the austerity measures, because of a proposal already submitted to the government procedure, and because of the financial implications that the proposal from the New Slovenia Group would have had – the Government does not support the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Members, Representatives of the Government and other Members! Since the economic crisis is over and since we are recording even one of the best economic growth in the European Union area today, it is time to relax the measures that we have also had to take in the Republic of Slovenia over the past seven or eight years. Savings have been widespread, excessive for several years, and, of course, has left the seal most on those who have been on the brink of survival since before the crisis. We therefore agree with the proposal for the amendment that, after three years of continuous favourable economic and public financial indicators, it would now be time to establish the situation ahead of the implementation of the austerity measures in all areas: children and families, all the remaining social transfers, salaries, pensions and so on. However, the austerity measures were not implemented at once, and the social security of the people was affected by a different degree of intensity. I will not say anything wrong if I say that we are in economic prosperity today and that the country is in a much better economic and financial condition. However, it must also be confirmed that individual austerity measures have indeed begun to relax as soon as positive trends have emerged. In the Desus Group, we understand that it is safer to phase out measures gradually than to expose ourselves to the risk of re-blocking the economy and thereby re-impairing public cash registers. At the same time, we note that this bill refers to the same content as the amendment of the same law already drafted by that government or coalition. The solutions in the government proposal, which we will address in the National Assembly this year, are more appropriately regulated and even more widely set. Unlike today's bill, the government proposal proposes a gradual release of austerity measures, following a formula for the release of austerity measures in the field of social or family policy; in 2018, not all the conditions for the full or single release of all measures have been met. However, the re-introduction of the children's allowance for families classified in the seventh and eighth income classes will be reintroduced, while the child allowance for secondary schoolchildren is still somewhat limited, but it should be stressed that the recipients of the child allowance will be given a new 50 thousand more. With regard to the proposal for a new law that we are considering today on non-compliance with the child allowance in the procedures for determining eligibility for the State grant, we are Members and Members of the Desus Group of Members of the single opinion that such exceptions cannot be supported. The concept of income determination must be the same in our belief for all rights. In our Group of Members, we are pleased that there are also major developments in the rest of the area of measures relating to family policy. In view of the new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which also brings a gradual return to the previous standard of remuneration in this area. This will, for example, improve the amount of parental compensation during parental leave and child protection. Mothers will also benefit from a new way of using a father’s leave, which will be more flexible and therefore kind to the whole family. Both draft laws also eliminate a finding of non-conformity with the constitution in work, which refers to the assumption of taking account of income from activities of 75% of the minimum income. As we are aware, social work centres should already comply with the decision or with the views adopted by the Constitutional Judges. Of course, this does not mean that there is no need to correct the legal provisions, but we trust the profession in this part, so we prefer to rely on what the Government has drawn up in its proposal. In view of everything, we can conclude that in the Desus Group we are more pleased with the proposal for positive measures for family policy prepared by the Government than with the proposal for a new law that we have before us today. For all the reasons mentioned in the Desus Group, we will not support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources, which we are considering today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u106	Hello, everyone in the hall! So, respectable, today in our first reading, we are considering the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, in which the applicants envisaged the following solutions: reintroduction of the child allowance for all income classes, elimination of the consideration of the child allowance in the procedures for determining eligibility for the State grant, and reintroduction of the state grant for families belonging to the 53 to 64% of the average monthly salary per family member. For several reasons, the government does not support this novel in its opinion, which we also attach to our parliamentary group. We will not support the proposal because the legislative process already has a government amendment of the same law, which touches on the same areas in a certain part. In its proposal for a new Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, the Government is also implementing the Constitutional Court decision and, inter alia, proposing a partial release of austerity measures. The introduction of informational calculations on annual entitlements is an essential novelty brought by the government proposal, as is the case with income. Certain austerity measures in the area of family benefits have already been released. Since the beginning of 2016, the children's allowance in the fifth and sixth income classes is thus higher by 10 %. In part, however, the final, fifth income class for state scholarships was also released. The government of austerity measures shall phase out. In its proposal for a novelty, it also proposes the introduction of a child allowance for the seventh and eighth income classes. In addition to this, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has also prepared a new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, proposing, inter alia, the abolition of austerity measures in respect of the rights to assistance at the birth of a child and a large family allowance, which means that all families will be entitled to these rights, irrespective of the material situation. However, a number of measures remain, but the conditions for the release of the other austerity measures are expected to be met in 2019. Many words have already been said regarding the inclusion of a child’s allowance in the family’s income. We're probably all united in order to exclude this, but unfortunately it's not as simple as it sounds. The Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia also proposes in its analyses that the child allowance should not be considered income, but points out that it is necessary to take a systematic approach to this change. Therefore, the way to change the order of application of rights and the new definition of the distinction between the development and the social part of the child allowance should be based on accurate calculations, based on the different aspects on which the proposed novelty would affect. For all of this, we will vote in the Group of Social Democrats against the conclusion that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights and Public Resources is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u108	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Members of New Slovenia will, of course, support our proposal for a law. It is also the last law in the New Slovenia family legislation package, which we discussed this year in the National Assembly. The bill is due to the fact that Cerara's government is releasing a number of austerity measures while at the same time increasing budgetary expenditure in many areas and forgetting the family area. We've invested billions of taxpayers' money in the banks. The government has recapitalised SDH and DUTB with public money, and we are still saving in families – and we have been hearing about a significant improvement in the economic situation in the country almost every year. In Nova Slovenije we estimate that the release of austerity measures should start right in the family. Also due to the extremely poor demographic picture of Slovenia, which is one of the worst in the European Union. We are also reminded of this in our assessments by the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. For the normal functioning of the country or all of its subsystems, it would take about 30,000 births per year over the coming years. At the moment, we're not even reaching 20,000, and the trend is declining. The relationship between working citizens and pensioners has also deteriorated rapidly and the country must do much more in the area of family policy. Among the reasons for the decline in fertility in Slovenia are, in our view, also inadequate social and family policies. We believe that Slovenia cannot afford the absence of family policy and carefreeness to the problem of birth. Family design and the quality of family life are influenced not only by family policies in a more narrow sense, but by family policies that cover very different areas: from tax system to housing policy, education and scholarship policies, employment, service services, child allowances policies, etc. Currently, in the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, a discriminatory and constitutionally controversial state grant scheme is in force, under which the child allowance granted to younger children affects the granting of a state grant to older children. At the end of the children's allowance for children of all ages, the Government has made clear that a State grant is taken over for children of all ages who are studying. It is therefore totally unacceptable that a child’s allowance to younger children results in older children receiving, or not even receiving, a lower State grant in the same family. Such an arrangement means that family benefits, which have an entirely equal role, are treated very differently. As a result, children from the same family are treated differently in the same income situation. This is an obvious and grave violation of the principle of equal treatment of beneficiaries who are in the same situation or who are obviously and gravely discriminated against by children of full age compared to minors. This discrimination and several other anomalies our current amendment and the amendment of the law eliminates. For all of this we will, of course, support the proposal of the New Slovenia, because we care about the family and the existence of the Slovenian people. I hope so to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. The Left will support the removal of the harmful measures introduced by the other Janševa Government in 2012 with Zujf, with the participation of today's Novi Slovenije proponents. Such austerity measures reproduce poverty and social degradation in general, but do not bring economic development, and they do so precisely. However, let me draw attention to the following. The defrosting proposed by NSIs would benefit mainly families with over-average incomes, it is said, mainly the higher medium layer. We do not really oppose this in Levica, but we point out that it would be even more urgent to improve the situation of socially disadvantaged families and poor employees. The parental compensation granted to unemployed mothers amounts to EUR 252 and this compensation continues to be frozen. We have social assistance, which is absolutely too low. And the latest proposal from the Ministry of Labour to continue to cover only 75% of the most basic cost of living is totally unacceptable. We will never agree that the poorest citizens would receive only 75% of the social state. That is why we have already tabled amendments to the budget, which would ensure at least normal survival for the 70,000 socially disadvantaged if the country does not give them a decent life. I also point out that the problem is much greater than the freezing of family benefits for families with above-average incomes in general too low wages. The minimum wage is absolutely too low because the current minimum wage does not allow normal lives or single workers, except for their families with all the costs that come with it. Well, that's why we left Members at the end of last month's amendment to the Minimum Wages Act, which proposes to raise it to €700 net, is saying, for a good €80 more than it is now. And there is no doubt that raising the minimum wage is more important than getting a four-member family, in which each of the parents earns €3,000 200 per month, an additional €50 child allowance. The list of measures that are much more necessary than the defrosting of austerity measures for families with above-average incomes is still very long, but I will not mention it; I will simply point out two that directly concern unemployed and socially disadvantaged families. The minimum wage for the unemployed remains frozen at 350 euros gross, which translates into 270 euro net, even less than social aid and substantially, significantly too little for a normal life. And such a policy not only harms the unemployed directly, i.e. the unemployed themselves and their families, but it harms the whole society, because in this way the state maintains a pool of cheap labour which is forced from the pressure of bare survival to accept every job, including the most cost-effective and most underpaid, often even illegal. And, of course, employers in such situations pay unpunishedly low wages or jobs or no more, but they take them through the exploitation regime of espies. Well, and the government makes this systematic exploitation possible, including maintaining minimum wages below the poverty threshold. The government of social dumping is implementing rather than preventing it. The second acute problem that I have to address in this position is the children's allowance for socially disadvantaged families. When these families apply for social assistance, the child’s allowance is still considered an adult’s income and therefore these families receive significantly less aid, and the funds to be used for the welfare of the children must be spent on the emergency expenses of the entire family. And that's not right. That is why we have already tabled and proposed, at the beginning of the year, a change in the area law, but that change was, of course, rejected. But the coalition has promised an alternative solution. So far, as is so often the case in this mandate, this alternative solution is obvious to wait for because it has not yet been prepared at the Ministry; for a year they have dealt primarily with themselves, with reorganisation, with staffing, with their basic activity – social protection – but they have forgotten a little in this process. Why, will you ask yourself, am I listing all this? In order to make it clear that the NSI proposal is acceptable but does not in any way solve the most acute social problems in the country, which is not, after all, the applicant's stated intention. The aim of the applicants is not to improve the lives of socially disadvantaged children and families, but to increase the number of births. And this increase in the number of births is just a means of reproduction of the labour force. And here the family policy of the right opposition has the same objective as the social policy of quasi-left government, it is that a thousand and one ways of ensuring the labour force of capital. The only difference is that social policy provides the workforce for the present and family policy is supposed to provide the workforce for the future. In Levica, such a naturalistic policy of human cultivation is totally rejected because we will never agree to reduce a person's labour force. The economy must be at the service of the people, not the other way around. And family policy must allow all citizens, including those at social risk, to decide for themselves how many children they will have if they have them at all. It is said that a good family policy is one that provides children from poor families and from less developed provinces with the same opportunities as children from privileged environments. And from this point of view, more importantly, how high the minimum wages are, how high the social benefits of the most neglected population are, and how much more important it would be for a family in which each parent earns two average wages to receive 50 euro supplements. Finally, New Slovenia has not proposed any measures to finance the implementation of this law. Moreover, they constantly put forward proposals on how to cut taxes, how to radically reduce incomes with the consequences of a half-billion-dollar budget deficit. On the other hand, they ensure that money is being spent to promote the state's weapons, and they also want EUR 45 million of additional resources in this proposal, while the revenue side is running low. And to promise higher household incomes, without at the same time taking care of the country's higher incomes, is in fact a simple demagogy and pure propaganda populism, if you want, an operation. To conclude, I should be determined by Article 14 of this Act. This article is important for recreational workers, in particular for forced espacies. When we addressed a constitutional complaint on the Labour Committee, we opposed the opinion of the Government, which advocated unfair regulation. Well, this arrangement later fell in the Constitutional Court. But most espies can only dream of earning 75% of the average wage a month. It is therefore totally unacceptable that they were not granted social benefits on the basis of actual earnings. Under the line, they received significantly less aid than they would actually need. Thank you for your attention. I'll see you in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds aims to improve the socio-economic situation of families through three solutions: reintroduction of a child allowance for all income classes, elimination of the consideration of a child allowance in the procedures for determining eligibility to a state grant and reintroduction of a state grant for families belonging to the 53 to 64% of the average monthly salary per family member. However, with a thorough reading of the text that we are considering today, we find that the proposal for a law offers only partial solutions to legislation. The system of determining the material position or income under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is uniform for all rights. This means taking into account all the income that is taxed in the law, including the child allowance. On the basis of these revenues, for example, an income scale has been created to obtain a state grant, which would be affected by the proposed amendment and would require its adjustment. Such adjustments also entail the responsibility of developing comprehensive and precise solutions. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we agree with the proposaler that the release of austerity measures should start with families, especially with the most vulnerable population group, that is, children. Nevertheless, we believe that solutions need to be introduced in a deliberate and comprehensive manner, so we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u114	Thank you, Vice President. All in attendance, everyone! Thank you for your word. The Public Finance Balance Act has introduced austerity measures in many areas, responding to the country's adverse economic situation and also as a result of the economic crisis. The proponent states in his explanation that the economic picture in Slovenia today is undoubtedly more optimistic than it was years ago, and that the time has come for the release of austerity measures, particularly in the field of family. The amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources, which we are considering today, proposes the reintroduction of a children's allowance for all income classes, the abolition of the consideration of a child's allowance in the procedures for the application of eligibility to a state grant, and the re-introduction of a state grant also for families belonging to the 53 to 64 % class of the average monthly salary per family member. These measures should also have a positive impact on the demographic picture and on improving the socio-economic situation of families. Undoubtedly, the demographic picture of Slovenia is not optimistic. Slovenia is, as most developed countries today, an ageing society. We also know that the economic situation in Slovenia is more favourable than in previous years. The economic situation, as it is said, is improving from year to year, followed by already released family benefits austerity measures. In part, the fifth income class for State grants was released, the child allowance rose by 10 % in the fifth and sixth income classes, extended the range of eligible children to benefit from the grant for lunches and lunches, the child allowance as income for the following rights in terms of the order and subsidies is not fully included, but taken into account by a reduction of 20 % of the amount, in the coming year the fathers will be entitled to a total of 30 days of paternity leave with the father's compensation and also the use will be more flexible. In early October, the Government adopted a new Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, which, due to a favourable economic picture, provides for the early termination of austerity measures, including in the area of the child allowance, so that children from families in the 7th and 8th grades will be entitled to a new year 2018, which is an additional 45 000 children. We are very aware of the importance of family policy and the importance of addressing the demographic challenge, but we believe that the change in law will not adequately address the issue of long-term fertility in the country. The resolution of the demographic problem must be comprehensively planned, taking into account the financial sustainability of the country, and cannot be based solely on the issue of fertility. At the same time, the design and implementation of family policies should aim in the long term to ensure social security for the widest possible range of people. Therefore, in the SMC Group of Members, we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Good evening, everyone! The adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act was necessary at the time of the biggest crisis, and unfortunately, in view of the situation at that time, the only option or only possible solution was necessary. It has been a great driver of dust, and it has certainly helped to stabilise public finances themselves in these years after its entry into force. However, it is important that all the austerity measures in Zujf were only temporary in nature, and it is also difficult to explain why some austerity measures have been waiting so long. Now we know that this government has been convincing us for the second year to drain honey and milk. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we agree with the proponents that the release of austerity measures should, of course, start with families, for the reasons they state – from a poor demographic picture, population ageing, gender decline to inadequate family policy. The law in front of us therefore enforces the following solutions: reintroduces the child allowance for all income classes, eliminates the consideration of the child allowance in state grant eligibility procedures and introduces state scholarships also for families belonging to the 56 to 64 % class of the average monthly salary per family member. On the proposed changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not have any additions and we fully support them. However, we regret that we are only considering the law today, it is said in November, although it was already introduced into the parliamentary procedure early in June, and as such it would be possible to make changes with the start of the school year 2016/2017 and 2017/2018, if the Government were to realise, of course, that the release of austerity measures is necessary for families and, of course, for families and small people. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the proposed changes will at least slightly improve the quality of life of children in many families, so of course we will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before I give my word to Mrs Ivi Dimic, let me just read the names, that is, those who are left behind, because many have checked out: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mr Janko Weber, Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Since the list of panellists is quite short at this meeting, I do not know if I would comment on the views of my fellow Members in the parliamentary groups and, of course, what I think is worth stressing. True, the government has prepared its package, its law of family policy, even children's allowances and so on, but one key matter has been forgotten by the government. She also forgot to help those to whom we repeatedly repeat in this National Assembly that we understand them and encourage them for a thousand and one ways — obviously only through words — and that they are our greatest hope in the future; these are students. Here, when students need scholarships, the matter is over. And it seems to me that it is right to raise the children's allowance in the 7th and 8th grades, but it seems to me that there is also a need to understand the students who have actually rectified and now up to 65% of the net salary is taken into account. However, this is not the whole of the 5th income class, we have not yet decided to remove the austerity measure, of course. However, it seems to me that a somewhat outdated assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of the new social legislation, the 2013 final report, however, shows what needs to be done in the future in the family and, of course, in the field of state scholarships, points out that the new legislation – the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds adopted by the then Minister Svetlik – has, however, overly affected both the recipients of the scholarships and those who then reduced their children's allowance. [[…]] Nevertheless, despite such warnings, there is no obedience and simply a government coalition as if it had forgotten what it had promised in this area, do not execute. It seems to me that, above all, it is important to stress that, in view of the proposal made by the government party or the coalition or if it has been prepared by the Ministry of Labour, it is particularly important that we have tabled this proposal before the parliamentary holidays and that it has waited for parliamentary treatment for as long as the Government has not done something similar. You have also mentioned that the New Slovenia proposal is completely unnecessary because the government has already prepared something itself. Of course, because you have held back so long from considering our proposal for a law that at this time you have drawn an approximate picture of our proposal. Whatever. It seems to me that it is not being taken into account and that inequality and discrimination in the area of receiving scholarships is too high and that, as I said, has already been alerted by the Social Protection Institute in 2013. It is inequality and discriminatory treatment of families, as it is in the area of families that government measures are released most slowly. Everything else has started. And you say, yes, they need to relax slowly; yes, I don't know why it takes some gradual relaxation in this area, when in fact these people need the most relaxation and, of course, ensure that they come alone. We need to remember what we did in the field of students, recipients of scholarships. We have recently considered in this national assembly their desire or demands that certain things should be arranged for them. However, I can say that I also missed a greater commitment by the students at the time, that the area of scholarships should also be regulated. Especially since we students are practical with the adoption of a law that during some educational period they can only pause or prescribe or benefit from an educational system, they are given one year So, in fact, the indicators show that student work in Slovenia is decreasing. [[...]] I am pleased that it is shrinking, which means that students will begin to study much more regularly. But then there are those students who do not receive scholarships because you say that our marriage is not suitable for further consideration, because those who live in the place of education have different conditions than those who have to stay and live outside the place of education and, of course, have to live in student homes or student homes and have a higher cost. When releasing the criteria for scholarships, there is inequality between the children of the same family. Why is the child supplement up to 99% of the average wage, a state scholarship which replaces the child allowance for children of all ages – these are the words of Dr. Svetlik, the minister who adopted the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds in 2011 – and only up to now 56%? It seems to me that this is completely illogical because in fact the cost of students living in a different place where they are educated and, of course, students is certainly higher than the cost of younger children. It's right to get, but I would expect you to always say in a coalition, we'll systematically arrange, I thought you'd get a systemic approach here, you'd raise one pay grade in kids, and of course you'd release the entire sixth grade in kids or fifth grade in scholarships, and that's not the case. I think that the issue of scholarships I have been exposing in this National Assembly since 2012, when we suspended state scholarships under 18 years of age, and then it was seen that a mistake was made here and then a reduced rate was given to them. Suddenly, I don't know if we want to help those we are talking about to enrich Slovenia in the future and to drag us down and, of course, develop some new technologies that are going to be jobs of the future, whether we want to, I don't know, give some other government candy, but at the same time there is no problem when some banks need to be saved, even if they are privately owned. It seems to me that we are going here in some way, a policy that does not actually treat all citizens equally and is even discriminatory to students and students. I would like to see fewer findings on how things will be in the future and how they will be gradually relaxed by 2019. But you know what? These people will have to survive until 2019. It seems to me that if there is ever a suitable time, it is a good time to realize, however, that there is also a need to provide scholarships, which, in fact, is the question to what extent they provide a decent study or the survival of student days. [[…]] I think it is very important what this assessment of the effects of the new social legislation on the different categories of the population has also said. Well, if we all read that, then we'd know that our marriage, the proposal of our marriage, has to be supported. Here they warned which families were most affected by the new social legislation: single - parent families, families with loans to solve the housing issue and families in rented homes — but we also filed this law in recent months, and it was not adopted — and families with students and large families. So, we are talking and we are considering and our proposal is addressing a topic that actually shows by all the indicators that it needs some solutions. And if it's ever the right time, I'm sure this is the right time now. That we're at a time when we're talking Not like my colleague Kordish said the country has a deficit, I don't know, half a billion. [[…]] No! No! In the first half of the year, there were one billion inflows to the state budget. There was no shortage. But I think you just don't want to hear everything. And one more thing to say was I am happy, but at least one parliamentary group will support our proposal, and everyone else obviously like ostrich head in the sand that people don't need or students don't need scholarships. [[…]] [[…]] But let me put it this way. There's been a speech that we want to help those who have a lot, that I won't say the most in this country. That's not true. Our proposal for a law goes hand in hand to those who are practically lost in a layer — that is, the middle layer. We talk about those who have much and those who have little, and our proposal for a law saves those who are the middle layer. Because this layer is virtually gone, and as it turns out, no one needs it either. Our marriage proposal also saves or helps in the field of scholarships, I'll say, to a medium layer. I can tell you two teachers who have two children. It helps. And if you think they're rich, that they have good salaries, I don't know if we're all sitting in the same Parliament that we're discussing. [[…]] Or some middle-level officials. These are the ones he's touching. Maybe these, I don't have a number right now, will tell the Secretary of State whether there's too many. This means that there is an even greater need for assistance and the elimination of austerity measures on them. This layer has actually gone somewhere and we want of course I want and it is right to get those who are single parents. [[…]] We've been doing this a little bit. You all said that he raised 10% of the children's allowance, but 10% were already low and I think we should start talking about two types of policy in Slovenia: family and social. [[…]] There is always this confusion – social policy. Social policy must help the weak, and this should help significantly. Family policy must, however, give children the right to equal access to education and education. Yeah. And no one wants to hear this divorce that there is a need to separate social policy and family. If I keep going. Those who have actually been severely affected by austerity measures in order to relax have otherwise been affected by another austerity measure, which has been reintroduced in Novi Slovenije for the past fourteen days and talks about the income scale for dependent family members, which is not aligned with the growth of living costs. Here too the middle layer was most affected and also here, colleague Horvat reasoned, and here you did not have listening. I am sorry to see that something needs to be changed in the country's family policy, that you are aware that it is necessary to listen and seek solutions, how, in the end, we will not even encourage or provide in the future for those who can care for us at an old age. However, your proposals do not go this way and I can say, I am sorry that you do not understand that much assistance is needed in the country, that, of course, it begins with helping the one who needs it and that families and, of course, students and students without scholarships are certainly one of those who need to be helped.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u120	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman! That's all I wanted to say. I know the state doesn't record any deficits now. I'm not stupid, and I didn't say that either. But I said that you, as billmakers, are defending a very funny line. On the one hand, let us give money for the nativity policy, for the labour force for capital and give money for weapons and for similar state-owned measures, and on the other hand, we would continuously cut taxes that could finance such measures. That's all I've pointed out.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Yes, thank you very much. Okay, the word is mag. Tanya Zink. Let the final debater prepare in this general work, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mrs. Tanja Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u122	Thank you, President. Nice greeting on my part, too! I agree that the change you are proposing in New Slovenia is important for Slovenian families. Nor do I object to stating that today the financial situation in the country is significantly better than it was in 2012. But as has already been said in the position of our Group of Members, unfortunately not all austerity measures can be released at once. It may also be difficult to justify a poor demographic picture in the country by comparing it with other developed European countries, from which Slovenia does not differ. However, it is important to be aware and to stress that the proposed amendments are only a partial solution. Such solutions usually do not yield some major long-term results. Studies already show that such measures have negligible and, if generally, short-term effects. The release of austerity measures has started in families in the past years of this mandate. Several measures have been taken: the children's allowance in the fifth, sixth grade has risen to the starting point before the reduction with Zujf; the child's allowance is also not fully counted as income after the following rights and subsidies, but reduced by 20% of the amount, extended the range of children's benefit to the grant of lunch and lunch, was partially released from the 5th Income Class for State grants, and the following year the fathers will also be entitled to a total of 30 days of paternity leave with a father's allowance, and a government proposal providing for the release of the 7th and 8th Income Class in relation to the right to a child allowance is pending consideration. It is stated in the Government's paper that there is an amendment to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which provides for the abolition of austerity measures in respect of the rights to assistance at the birth of a child and the allowance for a large family, which means that all families, regardless of the material situation, will be entitled to these two rights. So it is not true that Slovenia is carefree of family policy, as you write in your proposal. It may not be all done yet, the situation in this regard is not yet ideal if it is even easy, but some progress has been made. In one of my discussions, I drew attention to the research report carried out in Slovenia in 2010 by the Institute for Social Protection on this topic or the topic of fertility. And this report shows that the downward trend in fertility is characteristic of all European countries. And it is only supposed that social and demographic policy measures have an impact on the level of birth and also do not change the trend. According to Eurostat, the higher birth rate of the Scandinavian country is interesting, i.e. those who emphasize the policy of equality between women and men, who also have one of the highest levels of employment of women, thus enabling them to harmonise their professional and family life. This year, we finally adopted the Family Code, which requires the Government to draft a resolution on family policy, and this is also an important document. The one you have looked at in more detail is defined in a very specific direction. For example, the return of all family policy measures to the level ahead of Zujf, the introduction of at least a minimum child allowance for all children, the raising of the parental allowance, in particular for the youth category, i.e. for students, students, active job seekers, the introduction of a family card to enforce the benefits of purchasing goods and services and could still be listed. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia was also established for children and family, also on the basis of the Family Code. If I finish. All of the above in essence clearly indicates that the Government intended to improve the situation of families by means of measures. And not just meant to. She's done a lot on it, too, but unfortunately it's not all at once. After all, we must not forget the fiscal rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I would first like to thank my colleague Tanja Cink; at least two of us are involved here in a general debate that we are not on the proposaler's side or on the government's side. However, the views of the members of the groups are mainly written by the professional co-workers and read by the MEP, better or worse. Therefore, I can conclude from this that family policy in this mandate is disproportionate to the number of debaters in this law, which is a contribution to improving the situation of our Slovenian families. My colleague Tanja served with demographic data; here I add the research you find on my table of sprintana published last year by the Institute of Joseph Stefan. It's true, we have 1.5, and the nation is preserved, and we're going to need 2.1. We in Novi Slovenija are in the interest of preserving the nation. If anyone's not here, I respect his opinion. Here we have also heard the position of one of the parliamentary groups that, if I paraphrase it a little bit, they are not for the culture of life. And if you're not up for a culture of life, you're up for a culture of death because there's no other intermediate phase. I am pleased to belong to a group of Members who are ahead of the number of legislative proposals in this mandate that improve family policy or improve if they are adopted. But the situation is such that it is also obvious to this government and somehow I am offended, indignant, better said that there is no minister here who is responsible for the families. [[…]] I count her deputy, a friend of Peter Pogacar's, but speaking of family politics, there must be a minister here who is responsible for the family. She's not, as a rule, she's not. I would also like to personally congratulate her on the recognition she received from Mr Putin, now it is not important, but in the armor which is a strict opponent of gay families, but it does not matter now, let us leave. Our policy, New Slovenia's policy is and will be in the future, if I may say it in two words, a family at the forefront. Family first, now that it's so important, it makes it easier for some to get in the ear. [[…]] Yes, the family and the children must be at the forefront. I am also bitter because this law of New Slovenia was introduced into the parliamentary procedure – I must say this to the Slovenian public, which probably does not read our laws – on June 6, 2017, well before, long before parliamentary holidays. And today is November 9th. June 6th, November 9th. It took so long to lead the National Assembly, here with my finger pointing to the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, who, of course, kept this law in his drawer for speculative reasons. Why? Because it was known that the government would come with some proposal of its own that would be worth the attention. And then, if this marriage were to go through in the first reading, then in the second reading, we would have a hybrid. That seen, déjà vu. For example, with – as colleague Iva mentioned – our Income Law, which also waited for many days and weeks to see the light of the world of the government's Income Law, and then we considered it all together as a hybrid, and, of course, our marriage was brutally betrayed. Ladies and gentlemen, children are equal, the child is equal. It doesn't matter whether he was born to rich parents or he was born to poor people. I think we need to adopt these postulates, axioms once, probably in the coming term or future mandates, and only then will we be able to build some good family policy. And once again, the family and the children in the front, in the front. Family and children are our great happiness. If two people stand by and take responsibility, they contribute to a human and stable society. Everywhere people take responsibility for children and their upbringing, this is a valuable contribution to our Slovenian future. Supporting marriages and families remains one of the most important tasks of the country. This should be the case, which is why marriage and family are particularly constitutionally protected. Colleague Iva already mentioned Article 53; he is excellent; he should probably have written it if we were to speak in front of families and children. Perhaps we would once introduce that we would have special posters here on these empty walls of the National Assembly, so that we would have a little bit more in our eyes, but also in our brains. We do not prescribe families a special model of family life and respect different forms of life together. People should decide for themselves how they will shape their lives together and organize their daily routine. And we too will work harder in the future, focus even more heavily, and invest in our efforts for families and children. We cannot accept, ladies and gentlemen, and we must not accept the poverty of children. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr President, can you create the conditions for discussion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u125	The conditions for discussion are, in principle, one where more listen to you, but we cannot create them. But I can demand that there be peace in the hall, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u126	Thank you. That's exactly what I wanted. Thank you, Mr. President, Dr. Milan Brglez. We advocate that all our children, regardless of their background and the life situations of their parents, receive the best possible education and care. We don't make a difference. All, as we say, all children are equal. As a result, special models could also be made to promote family policy and help parents raise, educate children. And such very simple models exist and are tested in some countries that give something to families. We want families to have enough time for themselves and family life so that they can consciously design and enjoy the best time of their lives. We also want young families to be able to buy their own apartments for themselves and their children more than ever. This housing policy is an eternal theme. And many of you have rightly said here, yes, we are aware that family policy is not optimal, it should be more and so on and so forth. Of course, these include the housing problems of young families. But for God's sake, then let's get something out of this! If we were just talking, uh, this New Slovenia law is just fine, but we're not going to support it. Why not? Yes, because it's the law of the opposition. This pains me, and until Slovenian parliamentary democracy is so mature, it will not look at who the proposer is, not to see that the first signed lady is colleague Iva Dimic and that the solutions are good and that she will see that the solutions are good and that she will accept good solutions. [[…]] And right now, when we're all sort of, above all, a coalition, when coalition ties are loosening up, that's always the way, not just in this current coalition, one would expect to look more at solutions, not at the political color that the solution has proposed. We have to unload our families in the future. We need to significantly improve the financial situation of young families. And we're doing it. I already mentioned the Income Act. But together we could find some optimal solution or greater relief for family members, children and so on and so on. Because no one ever tells me that, say, today is compulsory, so primary school is free. That's not true. And once again, colleague Tanja Cink said what has been done in this mandate, changed in the field of legislation. But look, when you look at the numbers, then you get disgusted. I must now, I hope that I will not be punished in any way, tell the case that I am dealing with, and thank the Secretary of State Peter Pogačar, who has helped me solve a situation that is not normal for a country to have a local social work centre issue my fellow citizens, a student who has 2% vision, a decision to get help – do you know how much? - 100 euros. She's a student in Maribor. This is 80 kilometers from us; the same scholarship was in high school as it is now. Plus, the golden prom girl. 100 euros. Then my mother complains because my mother follows all these matters well and complains to the higher body, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which says that my mother is right and that the first-degree body, that local centre for social work must decide. My mother comes to me, if you don't mind, the messenger will figure it out. The messenger can't understand because the system is so complicated. And luckily, someone at the Ministry of Labour who can call him is knocking on his sleeve. And thank you, Mr. Peter Pogačar, we have studied how to solve this matter now. Well, the Centre for Social Work has now reissued the decision that 100 Euros of assistance to this student will be sufficient. That's how our affairs work in this country. You know, I get tears in my eyes when I explain here. We're talking numbers. Let's talk about numbers. Not that, I've improved that marriage, and that's that, that's that. Look, at the final stage, we people who sent us here have to ask what people have to do with it. What do people have to do with us improving that marriage and the third marriage, and I don't know what it's all about? And when we look at these numbers, when we're on the ground, in the village, in the countryside, meeting people, with our families, then we just see how the social state works for us. If you're resourceful, if you're not ashamed, I'll speak straight home, then you'll go and even if you need to simulate and get help, you'll get some disability pension and so on. Those good, hardworking ones who have the habit of getting up every day at five o’clock, being at six o’clock, are also afraid to go to the hospital because maybe if they go to the hospital for a long time, they will come back to the company, one way or another, and someone else will sit or stand there. That's how things work. And if we look at our society and again about numbers and Gini's coefficient, let's say that the measure of decomposition or Slovenia does not apply to decomposition, is the egalitarianity of society; unfortunately, we are an egalitarian society, not on the floor, I will not speak so dramatically, but we are egalitarian in poverty. [[…]] [[…]] And here, of course, when we talk about social policy, when we talk about family policy, when we talk about scholarship policy, we automatically generate many other issues and one of them is probably where to provide more money, so that we can have a good social, good family policy, so that we can encourage what is in favour of the people, the country and so on. And then we land where? We agree in the business environment because we know exactly where and how the social treasury is being filled, if I may say so, the health treasury – yesterday we had a dramatic meeting of the Health Committee, we received dramatic information; I will not repeat it, God forbid – then we all know how to fill the pension register. But we don't know, or we don't have this will, the political will, or maybe we don't know that we would actually start where the money for social policy is created. No, it's not. It seems that trends are such that we would support another company so that every time there was a policy of ink and had an ATM with no cover. These are problems that some countries, which, even a good quarter of a century ago as Slovenia, have passed from another social political system to a system of parliamentary democracy that has long since graduated, have resolved for the benefit of their own people. And we're kind of doing what we're doing, changes in legislation are more or less some cosmetic corrections without some tectonic shifts. [[…]] And yes, you said, the Slovenian society is growing old. We've known this for a while. What do we do now? The European Commission, this also means Slovenia, also Slovenia has its Commissioner there because, at the will of people, we are a member of the European Union, and in its so-called recommendations, it always writes to us that we are the Slovenian society within the EU 28 which is the fastest to age. And through financial optics, this phenomenon is an extremely high fiscal risk. Extremely high fiscal risks. We also have some good European solutions. Recently, on the Committee on Finance and on the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, we have discussed the regulation, i.e. the direct one, we could say a direct act of law that allows for a different, better, more reliable pension system, fully compatible with our proposal, with the proposal of New Slovenia. I'm not going to talk about it now because it's not a topic, but it's a so-called three-pillar or, if you want, a third pillar in the pension system. Until we adopt this, there's no other way, we'll have the poor among the pensioners. That's a fact. For us who are there five, ten years before retirement, it is already too late, but for those who enter the market today, these should motivate them to save at least a little for their old age from the first salary. And maybe then it's easier to help your grandkids that I'm back with the kids. I regret that, according to your statements, dear colleagues and colleagues, this proposal of the New Slovenia Act will not even be given the opportunity to improve it in other readings together, you will just shut it down today. I truly regret this and hope that the next term will begin as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u127	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u128	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! To this debate and, however, I will say, to the very correct explanations of the bill's proponents, I would, however, have given before we conclude this debate, some additional explanations, perhaps from the very opening opinion of the Government, which, however, is limited in time, were not fully accurate. With regard to the first part of the proposal for the content of the law. This is really not about who the proposer is. The decision of the Constitutional Court must be implemented irrespective of who is proposing this law. However, here we would like to point out that the Constitutional Court's decision itself is technically extremely complex; the centres for social work throughout Slovenia are already informed and are already acting in accordance with this Constitutional Court decision, while the proposal for a bill of motion, which is currently under consideration, we believe that it does not take into account the exact content of the decision. Therefore, I reiterate that the Government has prepared its proposal for a law, its proposal for the implementation of this decision by the Constitutional Court, and in fact this is not about who the proposer is, because the decision of the Constitutional Court needs to be implemented. I think that there is no one — not the Government or Members of the National Assembly — who would not have tried and wanted all austerity measures to be taken without delay, especially in the area of family policy, which we all know is children, children's allowances, state scholarships; this is what generates some kind of family well-being. We all know that the Public Finance Balance Act, which reached out to a number of areas in the time of the financial crisis, is later aimed at releasing austerity measures when two elements are given: 2.5% of economic growth and growth in the rate of employment between 20th and 64th years, when it is higher than 1.3%. The fact is that in this year, these two criteria were not met if you want to last year, so there can be no release of all austerity measures. Nevertheless, regardless of the very good economic indicators, due to the very good state of the budget, which, of course, is still in the stage of fiscal consolidation, the Government has proposed, gradually, in the last two years and in the following year, the re-release of certain austerity measures. In particular, I would like to draw attention here to the already tabled proposal for amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which restores the right to a child allowance in the seventh and eighth classes, at the same time introduces a very important change in the informational calculations for annual rights – this means in the children's allowance, the State grant, the reduction of the payment of kindergarten and the subsidies for lunch and lunch. This will be a very important change that will significantly simplify not least the very life of these families. The Ministry of Labour has already drawn up a proposal that is still in the government procedure to eliminate family austerity measures, including the rights to help with the birth of a child and the allowance for a large family, where these austerity measures still apply in part; we hope that we will succeed. It is worth noting that in the family area in the following year, fathers will be entitled to an additional 5 days of paid paternity leave, resulting from the application of a 15-day paid paternity leave which began on 1 January 2016. Perhaps only with regard to the key proposal most discussed by the applicant with regard to the abolition of the inclusion of the child allowance in the eligibility procedures for the State grant. Here we want to explain the following. The concept of income-recognition in the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is uniform for all rights. What does that mean? It means that all incomes listed in the legislation are taken into account, including child allowances. On the basis of these revenues, so-called equivalent scales for monetary social assistance and income scales are created. For example, this is for a state scholarship. And the amendment proposed by the proposer in this law is not possible without a change in the income scale in the state grant, it is also said, technically not a completely corrected proposal. Nevertheless, something is a technique, and the other is not the last thing. As many rights as possible must be governed by the same rules if the system does not actually become, as Mr Horvat said, imprecise and complicated, but perhaps unfair. All rights must be governed by the same rules as they are included and, last but not least, by how they are recognised. Not least, I'm just stressing this. The social transfers we're talking about are only poverty alleviations. Social transfers alleviate poverty, reduce it, reduce the risk of poverty. The key to the situation of families is job growth, new jobs and wage levels, but this is what needs to be said. Maybe that's all. The government estimates that this bill, in addition to the financial implications that the Government has already proposed in its law, has significant implications for the state budget, which are not guaranteed in the State budget for the coming year. In line with the foregoing, the Government considers that the proposal for a bill does not support it and suggests that Members do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u129	Ms Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u130	It seems to me that we all know what needs to be done, but we try to avoid it in a different way. Perhaps the Secretary of State – but we also often talk, I would say, in the halls of the National Assembly – seems to me that you understand the matter, but still if we have drawn up a law that is not immediately acceptable, yet if you have the will, you have the power to do so and you have the apparatus, the knowledge and you can change it. Perhaps at least for those remaining part of the fifth income class in scholarships this could be relaxed in some way. In conclusion, however, what was essentially the driving point, that we said in New Slovenia, that if austerity measures were to be abolished everywhere in all areas, however, the family must also come in line and we made several proposals this year. From incentives to first solve the housing problem of young families to free kindergartens. So we said, let's get the maternity or baby-care benefits back. There have been a lot of such proposals that have not been adopted, and you will now include them in one piece. I am sorry that despite the fact that the report I have here before me said that underage students and students are, of course, also mentioned by some centres for social work in Slovenia, the worst, especially those who live in student or student homes, because the cost of schooling is higher for them than for those who live at home during school. It seems to me that important information is also that a large number of students have been enrolled, but I think it is right that, in the event of such economic growth, in the financial recovery of the country, we will still apply the principle that should be that all have equal opportunities for education and knowledge, regardless of where Slovenia comes from. It was pointed out that those who come from faraway places, students and students who have to stay in student homes or in student homes, are the most affected. It seems to me that student work has shown yet another interest in recent times, if you follow this — that they are mostly working. And obviously because of such laws or non-relief and because you do not listen to them, those who live outside of education must work and thus create unequal opportunities for access to education and knowledge. All I'm saying is that it doesn't matter where the student and the student come from, but that the state has to give them equal opportunities to access education and knowledge. If there were also relaxations in the area of scholarships, I can say that we would guarantee these equal opportunities and that these options are not guaranteed. And, of course, they will gradually relax somewhere I cannot be satisfied and it will obviously be necessary to go on with this agenda, because I hope that all those who receive this discrimination will now come forward and that you will still be overlooked in the ministry and still find the sense that they need to be helped. [[…]] Once again, if we want to have a healthy, predictable family policy, then this policy must be pursued. Nevertheless, social policy is extremely important for those who cannot work, who are on the verge or have such low incomes that they need to be helped in a cost-effective manner. And when we're all ready to come to this solution in the country, it'll be better; otherwise, we just postpone and say, second year and second year. With this in New Slovenia, we are not satisfied and I regret that you will not support our marriage at this first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u131	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Nobody. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on higher education in the short term. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members and first-signed Mr Miho Kordiš. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Micha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Chairman and a nice greeting to all present at the final point of today's session! We have this item on the agenda because, with the beginning of October, 2,000 students experienced serious injustices. On a beautiful day, they opened a mailbox and awaited a letter from the Health Insurance Office informing them that they had been deprived of health insurance, both the basic and the supplementary ones. The problem arose as a result of the adoption of the amendment to the 69th Article of the Higher Education Act in December of the previous year, and the question raised was not only the right to health insurance but also the other rights relating to student status: the use of subsidised food, subsidised transport; some students had to move even from student homes. We know one very specific example because then a person went on to a student home, even at an economic price. In short, about 2,000 students found themselves in a social vacuum. In Levi, we responded without delay and, among other things, the fact that we have today's agenda and I am pleased that our proposal to amend Article 69 of the Higher Education Act, which gives students their rights wrongfully, enjoys the majority support of this National Assembly. In addition, I am pleased that an amendment has been adopted at the Committee's hearing, which guarantees the rights withdrawn, is also retroactive. Thus, from this month or two, since the problem arose, until the moment the legal changes enter into force, we have been able to give the students their rights back. What we have failed to do, however, is to change the opinion of the Ministry of Education, which still insists that the amendment of Article 69 does not result in a mistake, but that it is part of the fight against fictitious entries strategy. This argument must be rejected at two levels. First of all, students who carry out their duties were injured, often performing them with a medal – students of the successive study. You can, colleagues, colleagues, Members of Parliament, read about their tribulations in the letters they addressed to us, and you will see very quickly that this is not about any slackers, but about students who have become disenfranchised, that they do everything on a regular basis. Secondly, one step backwards, but at a more principled level, the Ministry is dealing with the problems of fictitious entries at the wrong end. Fictitious entries are mainly generated by the use of student work, but this is only a survival strategy, not a luxury strategy; it is not affronting, laziness, delaying with the transition to adulthood or anything like that. No, it's a naked survival strategy. And if we really want to address fictitious entries, then we have to offer young people suitable jobs, and the problem will disappear on its own. Only then can we talk about bureaucratic dealing with “fictionists” because the current administrative cutting of people from their survival strategy can result only in students finding themselves either “social” or going into opening their espionage, not as entrepreneurs, of course, but as unjust reprimands, or, after all, to bump their heels and go abroad. To conclude, I would like to point out further the Ministry's assertions that it is not in fact 2,000 students who would have been harmed. Look, the Ministry practically operated every other day with a different number of affected students. And according to them, there were these students at the beginning of about a thousand, then about 500, a little later than 400; well, when we got to the board this week, the figure had fallen to about 300. And here the Ministry deceives because it represents only the number of those who, due to their age, are not entitled to health insurance. However, Article 69 currently in force also interferes with the right to food, transport, accommodation, which also affects older students. In short, by deleting the disputed appendix to Article 69, all the rights of the returnee listed and by means of an amendment which went through the committee, we have also ensured the eligibility of those rights back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u133	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! At its 34th urgent meeting on 7 November this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on Higher Education, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordiš. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 109th regular meeting on 17 October this year that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service from a legislative point of view. Her representative, however, said that the opinion had drawn attention to the lack of a transitional provision that would define the proposed novelties to the consequences that had arisen for students whose situation was to change again with this amendment. The draft law was also supported by the Council of State and his representative proposed to the applicant and to the Government that they agree on such a text of the amendment to Article 69(1), which will be clearer in terms of legal certainty and social rights for students during the course of the study and will also make the provision in force for the return. No amendments were tabled within the time limit and proposals were submitted for an amendment to the committee by the coalition parliamentary groups and the Levica Group. Following an introductory presentation of the bill by the representative of the proposer, the Government's opinion was presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. At the same time, he said that according to their records there are thousands of 971 students who took advantage of the option under Article 69, which represents 3% of all students. Only 609 of these students are under 26 years of age and these students would be out of health insurance regardless of the legislation in force. Of the 609 students, 92 students were copied twice, and the recorder is a student who has been prescribed six times, so the current situation is not a result of a situation that would arise at once. He also explained that only 384 students under the age of 26 are less than the age of 26. The discussion followed, in which it was pointed out that the rights and benefits deriving from student status were already regulated by other special rules falling within the competence of other ministries and, as such, not originally regulated by the Higher Education Act. However, some discussions were still about the transitional provisions of the bill. After discussion, the Committee adopted the proposal for an amendment to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes amendments, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u135	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Let me also briefly present the Government's opinion on the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act. In doing so, I will be relatively brief, as is the short entry of the first paragraph of Article 69, proposed in the procedure by a group of Members with first-signed Miho Kordiš. Taking into account the fact that the rights and benefits arising from the student status, as stated or defined by the existing 69th Article of the Higher Education Act, are already regulated by other special rules falling within the jurisdiction of other ministries — for example, the right to health insurance of students is governed by the Health and Health Insurance Act, and thus, as such, it falls within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, the right to study work or scholarship, falls within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, as well as the relevant sectoral legislation of that Ministry — we stress that such rights, social rights are not originally regulated by the Law on Higher Education and, in this respect, we can find that the proposal for a new law actually makes this distinction even more clear, so that such rights, social rights are not originally regulated in the Law on Higher Education, and in this respect of other branches of law, which are governed by the law. In line with that, we therefore agree or do not object to the provision of Article 69, which takes full account of this system of rules, stressing that the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme is also sent to these places through the proposals for measures. In an opinion drawn up by the Government, some of the concerns or proposals for improvement or, above all, editorial changes proposed in Article 69, which we note have already been taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee. It is precisely because of this fact that the Government does not oppose the arrangements we have, as you have before you. At the same time, we want this amendment of student legislation or student rights legislation to help the most ambitious, the most capable, to make full use of their study potentials and thus to help bring about the transition or consolidation of Slovenia as a knowledge society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u137	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, welcome! Despite the fact that not only the political but also the general public participates in the drafting and adoption of laws, there are many shortcomings in the implementation of the law in practice. Even if they are unintentional, it often happens that he tries to justify them in various ways and avoid correcting the wrongs he has committed. We are glad that the problem we are dealing with is different this time. One of the aims of the New Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in the National Assembly last November, was to reduce smallpox, quickly integrate into the labour market and reduce study time. In view of this, a number of measures have been proposed to promote a reduction in the average duration of the study, some of which, as demonstrated by the implementation of the law in practice, have gone too far. A group of students studying longer for justified reasons than provided for in the normative restriction were encroached on rights from healthcare, subsidised nutrition, transport, scholarships. Even so, they faithfully and in their own hands. In the Group of Social Democrats, we stress the importance of a quality and accessible higher education system. Therefore, in the context of the interpretations of the law, which were not consistent with the purpose of ensuring accessibility, the competent ministry has called for the clearance of the various positions, if necessary, including by amending the legislative text, so that all students who had rightly expected to enjoy the uninterrupted use of rights from the student's status are also guaranteed. In view of the importance of accessibility to education, it is unacceptable to reduce the possibility of education for all those sincerely seeking appropriate education by limiting potential abuses. The adoption of a proposal on a committee submitted by the Government in the form of an amendment to the law follows the intention of the proposer and remedys the irregularities identified. As we understand, the fruit of the agreement between stakeholders, which is particularly important in terms of trust and further cooperation with others, is at least such important issues in this area. Let us not forget that the Higher Education Law is still lacking in the work that defines public service. It should be recalled that we should implement both the Constitutional Court's decision and the decisions of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and establish public service, its scope, the way in which individuals are carried out and financed, the conditions for access to higher education within the public service and the conditions for public service providers. The lack of this creates other negative effects, which the Ministry also recognises, raising tuition for exceptional students. The issue of tuition for exceptional studies is also one of the criteria for the accessibility of higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new law on higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u139	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which is Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! On Tuesday's Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, the politicians were united in considering the novel of the Higher Education Act and that is a good thing. The proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act solves the problem of the deprivation of rights by a group of students, with the last amendment of this Act. According to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, 1971 students took advantage of the 69th section of the Higher Education Act, which represents 3% of all students. Of these, 384 students are younger than 26 years of age and would be entitled to the rights arising from the student status before the last amendment of December last year. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the problem of fictitious entries is not only the regulation of sectoral legislation that will limit it, but also the need to enable young people to enter the labour market more easily. In order to limit fictitious enrollments, some students who carry out their duties within a period of less than 26 years are disadvantaged. It seems unacceptable to us that because of the restriction of fictitious enrollments, students who perform all their duties within a period of time and do not take advantage of the status because of the benefits, but their only “error” was that during the course of the study they found that the profession for which they had decided at the beginning of their studies was not happy, so during the study they decided to write to another university. Among the disadvantaged students there are also many of them who are learning in parallel; in the second year the student enrolled in parallel studies of archaeology. The law study was successfully completed in the previous study year and continues with the study in archaeology. Although she has the status of a regular student and has not yet reached the age of 26, she does not qualify as a student, such as health insurance, student food vouchers, the possibility of staying in a student's home and so on. So, in our desire to limit fictitious entries, we have also deprived very good and successful students who carry out all the obligations within the deadline. On the committee, reason and decision prevailed that the new Higher Education Act should be amended accordingly and that students should be reimbursed for all rights arising out of student status, from 1. Ten. 2017. In the New Slovenia Group, we point out that it is also necessary to arrange for students to stay in a dormitory who have lost this opportunity because of the law in force, and now this right will belong to them again. We call on all involved to take a responsible approach to solving this problem and to solve cases individually. Members of New Slovenia will unanimously support the law amending the Higher Education Act, because we are not looking at who the proposer is, but we are looking at the quality of the solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u141	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u142	Thank you very much, President. All due respect! In Levi, we have insisted on calling this extraordinary meeting with this item on the agenda, because from the moment these problems actually appeared, this notorious 69th article of ZVis, when they appeared in practice, we have insisted that this should be resolved as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible, because it has simply affected a certain group of students. Given the unanimous support of the Committee, I expect and, of course, I hope that the law will be adopted today and that we will also restore these unfair student rights and ensure, on the other hand, the social and health security of students and students. In early October, some of them began to receive notifications at home that they were simply no longer in health insurance, although they had student status and, of course, they also regularly carry out their study obligations. Turns out it wasn't some kind of mistake, it was the result of last year's changes in the law. This change has limited itself to the status of the tied right and benefit to the duration of one study programme at an individual level and has forgotten or failed to take into account possible extensions of the status due to repetition or transcription or parallel or secondary study. Thus, since the beginning of the study year, some students have been faced with the fact that their unexpected and unannounced rights have expired, which have so far allowed them to study carefreely. Students, of whom almost 500 are enrolled on a regular basis and about 600 are registered on an exceptional basis, have been deprived of at least one of the following rights due to last year's legal changes: that is, the right to health insurance through parents or caregivers, to student diet or to subsidised stay and transport. This made their studies difficult, and their health and social security was, of course, at risk. By adopting this law, we will restore these rights and allow affected students to focus, instead of the legal provisions of the Higher Education Act and even more difficult correspondence with the competent ministries and authorities, on what is their primary activity or task, i.e. their own studies. In doing so, rights — and this is important — will also be restored. In fact, the Home Committee has adopted our proposal to supplement the law with a transitional and final provision, which guarantees all the rights withdrawn for the period from 1 October to the entry into force of this Act. This will grant affected students the right to reimbursement, both for their return to health insurance and for possible payments of health services. It is probably too much to say in the end that we will, of course, support this proposal in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u143	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At the beginning of the study year, many students found themselves in an unenviable position. In fact, with the amendment of the Higher Education Act, which was adopted almost exactly one year ago, students who, on the basis of Article 66 of the Higher Education Act, duly extended their studies or took advantage of the possibility of a copy to another study programme, were deprived of some of their extremely important rights for students: the right to health care, subsidised food, transportation, residence and work. All these rights are derived from student status and all students to whom these rights have been revoked have student status. With the novel of the Higher Education Act, which is ahead of us today, students will regain their rights. And I am pleased that, at the Committee's meeting, we have unanimously supported the amendments and the two amendments to the Committee. We will also give him our support in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Nevertheless, I must express a small disappointment, as I also expected representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs who did not respond to the call. I missed their position on the problem that will arise or arise once the proposed amendment has been implemented. In fact, all the students who had to move out of the dormitory by the end of October, while their room had already been occupied by another beneficiary, will be left without a possibility to stay in the dormitory in case of underprivileged housing. I hope that the competent ministry is aware of this, despite the fact that the treatment on the home labour body was not involved. Therefore, I call on the representatives of the Ministry, together with the Minister, to address the problem as soon as possible and to save students and students another problem that will reduce the valuable time spent on study obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u145	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u146	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Let me begin by saying that we have already supported the amendment of the Higher Education Act, which we are considering today, in our parliamentary group at the meeting of the parental committee and will give support to it today. Nevertheless, we would like to draw attention to some of the facts related to the adoption so far of this bill and the amendment to the Higher Education Act adopted by the National Assembly at the end of last year. Last year, the legal solution of Article 69 of the Higher Education Act followed the current Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2011, which provides for a single and transparent system of social transfers for studies relating to the right to use a certain number of years. The resolution itself shows that in our country we see a high proportion of students who do not complete the study and longer if not even the longest duration of the study compared to other European countries. Let us add that in 2016 the average age of the graduate was at the end of the second Bologna level of at least 30 years. This is not a combination that would have been invented by the SMC Group or the Ministry of Field Affairs; last but not least, the resolution in force was adopted in one of the previous mandates. Even at the time of the adoption of last year's novelty, the legal solution of Article 69 in the legislative procedure by interested stakeholders was not problematic, and for this time it was both at the meeting of the Committee and at the meeting of the National Assembly. The proposed law wrongly states that 2 000 students remained due to a government coalition without health insurance at the beginning of October. It should be known that, despite last year's amendment to the Higher Education Law without health insurance, some more than a thousand 100 students would remain because they simply exceeded the age threshold laid down in the health legislation. It is true, however, that an error in the calculation of the eligibility of possible years of use of rights and benefits has occurred in the students of single master study programmes and this error has been corrected by an official duty. Because of our awareness of the sensitivity of the problem and the various factors that affect the social status of students and students during the course of the study, in the SMC Group, we have taken a responsible approach to the amendment of the law and it will not be enough in the future to address the social problems of students only in the context of education policy; the causes and solutions will have to be sought at other ends. We agree with the position of one of the students' societies, which is close to the law's proponents, that the problem of students who have been enrolled must be solved in the context of unemployment, and that this, together with the scale of work through travel, civil law contracts, espionage also between students and students, is not a matter of education policy, but of social policy and of the department, which unfortunately works too passively in this part of the issue of young people. As a society and as individuals, we will simply have to answer the question of why we study and what our studies will bring to life. Let us not forget that the fundamental role of higher education in our society is, in particular, to strengthen and empower citizens for personal development, career and active citizenship and for the cultural, social and economic development of the community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u147	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This item of the agenda, as well as the requirement for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, would not be necessary if the coalition led by the President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, sometimes read something and, above all, looked at what it accepts. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal that the rights which have been wrongly taken from students and students following the amendment of Article 69 of the Higher Education Act be returned. I do not know why it was necessary to accept change and, of course, we did not support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because Article 69 was clearly written enough, for the rights and benefits of students and students such as health insurance, the right to stay, to subsidised transport, school meals and so on, it was also clear that they can apply even if the student makes a copy to another program, to another college or if the student repeats it; once at the time of study, he has the right and, of course, this right is given to the others, let's say the social rights that we are talking about today. And, of course, it is with some excuse that it is a fight against fictitious entries, although it has turned out that there is no effect and that we are far from it, the Government and the ruling coalition – the parties of the Social Democrats, Desus and the Party of the Modern Centre – has proposed that, despite the rights remaining in the study, this is called a prescription and repetition, that other rights and benefits of students can be exercised for the longest period of one study programme at a certain stage and then for the duration of the study programme from the previous sentence further in accordance with Article 36 and 70 of this Law. In short, you have caused about 2,000 students, as mentioned earlier, to be deprived of these rights and, of course, this right is restored by this law, which we support. However, I can say that the saddest thing is that one of the opposition's members has to propose that these changes be corrected, because as soon as the students and students learned what was going to happen or earlier, the Minister of Education should react immediately and the Government should be the one who made such a change and said, "Yes, we were wrong; whether we were not careful or obviously thinking that the effect would be different." If the memory is not mistaken, the same thing happened — I think somewhere with regard to the Law of the Sea — when we went to correct some of the nonsense that happened to the Minister of Labour Anja Kopač Dark when she proposed those changes. Well, they'd say, "We were wrong, we were wrong. It's not like he's waiting. At the time, the minister was still busy with the presidential campaign – and she is not very busy with this department – but we would expect her to react immediately when such injustice takes place, thanks to her and thanks to the ruling coalition. However, we have long since despaired in the Slovenian Democratic Party that something positive will change in the area of young people under the government of Mir Cerar. In the SDS we have proposed several measures in this mandate on youth issues: from student vouchers to housing issues, to traineeships, a dual school system and so on. The only thing that really happened in this mandate was the amendment of the law proposed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia and received in this Parliament at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Otherwise, as I was already talking about in this law, I said in my position at the time: one commitment under the coalition treaty, respected coalition MPs, was not realized under the leadership of Mir Cerar. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I said before, we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u149	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u150	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Higher Education Act, proposed by the leftist Group, which we have before us today in the form of an amended bill, will not be opposed in the Desus Group. Allow me to remind you that at the previous extraordinary meeting of the assembly two weeks ago, we also supported a proposal that in some way has already rectified the situation of the students. Although we were a little critical at the time, we were well - intentioned. And even this time, Members and Members, we cannot go beyond repeating today the facts and views of Desus in relation to tertiary education. In Slovenia, the number of all students in higher education and higher education is declining every year. During this study year, 79 thousand 547 were enrolled, which means about a thousand less than in the previous study year and 36 thousand less than ten years ago. Nevertheless, the numbers still show that about half of the young people are studying. Our universities and higher education institutions, whether public or private, offer a wide range of study programmes, and yet our educational system at this level has provided a wide range of rights and benefits arising from student status. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the population of students is well cared for by the state and that students have all the conditions to study successfully while at the same time standing in the position that students must take full responsibility for themselves and study seriously and vigorously and also study. Everyone has the right to a free or publicly funded one study programme. In our view, the student age cannot and must not be limited to the enjoyment of the rights and benefits offered by the student status, but in particular it must not be social remedies. Our higher education system often manifests itself for too long a study. This has been established by international evaluations or comparisons. That is why I believe that when we adopted the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, and especially when we adopted the last novel, which corrected this anomaly, among other things, by linking the rights and benefits of the students with the duration of the study programme with the additional year of use for reasons of repetition or transcription. [[...]] Today we put it back in its original state. So we step back, but this step is done at the wish of the students.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u151	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in 15 minutes in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this item of the agenda and also the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 8 p.m. and 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u152	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in the same order as the hearings. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the termination of item 1 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Left Party to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u153	Thank you, President, for your word. I'll do it again. 4. 12. In 2012, all Members of the Assembly of the State at that time voted in favour of 76 votes against and adopted a so-called large or mini-retirement reform. The law came to the National Assembly, in line with ZDUS, ZPIZ, unions, with craftsmen, economists and we were told, the law is harmonised, Members leave it alone, for any deviation from the agreed agreement will be regarded as an uncoordinated law and any agreement will fall. And I believe that the vast majority at the time did not even deal with what the marriage was all about, but we knew that certain changes were going on. As a result, soon after our adoption — at least those who were then Members — we began to see in our parliamentary offices or in the field that the law is unfair, that if you want to, the law is unfair to individual groups. And today we have a law before us that partially brings back what was lost, but it only returns to about a thousand people, according to the bill, what was taken away from them. And our amendment is very simple. We want to equalize what was already equal before. In short, the position of those who have acquired a pension is equal to that of those who have been voluntarily insured. You probably have everyone around you who, in the days before they retired, thought about gathering so - called military or student years. In 1992, this was more favourable, in 2010, in 2011, in 2012 it was less favourable. But people decided they'd give something to get into early retirement. But we took it from them. And if we want to solve the so-called injustices, we need to solve them systematically, and on this basis our amendment is ready. Our amendment is also prepared on the basis of what the drafters wrote in the bill – to restore confidence in the rule of law. In short, if we want the systematic elimination of injustices, if we want a higher level of trust in the rule of law, we will support this amendment. I predict, however, that in the event that this amendment is not adopted, we will, as soon as possible, introduce a law within the Group of Members, where we will listen to about 50,000 people who we wrongly apologize to, for which we once again apologize to them, take what is theirs, what is expected to be theirs. So in the SDS Group, we're going to support the amendment that we're trying to make possible for those who've bought years or months. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u154	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 36. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 33. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 3; if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Left Group to the same Article under Article 2 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u155	Good evening! I think that it was about this third article that today, in the debate, most of the words were turned around and most debated and even the most widely spoken. I will say quite frankly that the representatives of Desus, specifically my colleague Jurša, have warned me that this SMC amendment can practically undermine the intent of the law in order to prevent effective action against violators and against those who play the system that do not pay the workers contributions. On the other hand, today was debated by Member Horvat of the SMC, who has repeatedly referred to me in the debate and said that I am not exactly me and Desus. I want to clear these things up now, and I'm asking you not to call me. [[…]] Well, it would be very nice to have a voice in your explanations of what's true here, who's right now. Let me be clear about what New Slovenia will support. New Slovenia supports any amendment that would require the country to directly recover unpaid contributions from entrepreneurs and not that workers themselves have to do so. Let me be very clear. So it is the duty of the State to recover what is itss and that, because of unfair entrepreneurs, citizens are not harmed in a way that they cannot retire because they lack the years paid. I think it's an extremely important thing to do today. If there is, then we can take one important step forward in the pursuit of this very bad crime. I don't think it's wrong for me to go around the bend a little bit and use these explanations of voice to tell ourselves who's right now – either Desus or SMC. I would certainly like to know before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u156	On behalf of the MP? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleague Tonin, I referred to you for a simple reason – because you were talking about the grey economy. This was what I liked, so I also said, because there was still time to discuss that I am sorry that you have other obligations and I also understand them, because I was surprised that after you were against the grey economy, you said you would vote against our amendment. Our amendment is against the grey economy. Our amendment is designed to regulate things that are also constantly being pointed out by the Left in the National Assembly. I know I'm going to have a little bit of a show-off now, too, with my esteemed colleague of mags. Alenko Bratušek, that we have been discussing this issue for a long time, but it is necessary to know that we have two completely different matters in this law in this bill. One that relates to what we can do in return, and the other what we can do in advance. So I'm going to let myself think about what's going on in Article 1, and I'm very sorry that I also supported the proposal of the Left to Article 1, because I think that if we're already saving this part, and if we're eliminating what was said in the debate today, I've also supported and, of course, I've also called on others to support this amendment of the Left to apologize, unfortunately, we don't have a State Secretary here, who, I must say, for my taste, has been misleading in saying that both solutions are the same – those who are in the proposal of the law in Article 3, and what we have proposed by the Modern Centre Party to the Amendment. [[...]] [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u158	It wasn't before, and that's why I'm gonna let this end. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u159	Yes, it's very urgent that I say the following. In fact, what's going on is essential. What has been said is exactly the same if only the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia informs the worker or if the worker says: Yes, I got a salary at such a height and from such salary then what Desus also says is why I am sorry because I also said that he was misled in something and I am very sorry; what he refers to about the constitution is absolutely true. And that is what we want to ensure with our amendment. So, putting into the hands of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, for which it has been said on the home working body that they need to be given the tools into their hands, then of course the Financial Administration must also have data on which it will be able to act only on the basis of what it already knows. It may remedy irregularities and ensure payment of contributions only if it also has relevant information [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u160	Procedurally, Mr. Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Of course, we are obviously continuing the debate here, Mr President and I would like to ask that we do not debate because we have really debated three or four hours, I do not know exactly, but let everyone who rises say how he will vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or personally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u162	Now this. [[…]] [[Laugh]] I'll answer the previous questions first. [[…]] Neither was a clear explanation, but it's obvious for [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I say it all the way before I give you the next procedural one? Yes, you can. Neither was a clear explanation; a request was made here, it was an answer, given on behalf of the Group of Members under what can also be considered an explanation of vote. I just wanted to say that, that's all. Now for the record, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, as far as the procedure is concerned, I'm sorry, but I ran out of trouble for a few seconds, so I didn't have to go through with it. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] Gather your thoughts. I understand. [[...]] And obviously, because it was necessary and obviously still necessary, I could say the same thing over and over again and that's probably why I couldn't get my mind to the end. So, of course, for these reasons, if we are to continue to ensure that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been identified, will be [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u164	I'm not taking anybody's word, I'm not taking it in the middle, but [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u165	in order to ensure effective implementation in this field [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u166	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u167	the rights of workers and, of course, of employers, achieve the commitment they have under the law and under the contracts concluded, so of course we will vote in favour of this amendment in our parliamentary group. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-09-SDZ7-Izredna-51.ana.u168	Because it wasn't procedural, I'm giving you a reminder. But I've never taken a word from anyone before, and I can. Any other explanations? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 34. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 3. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 2. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Higher Education Act by a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
