ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Violeta Tomić, Erika Dekleva until 17:00, Andrei Potočnik, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 17:00 to 19:00, Irena Kotnik from 15.30 p.m., Vojka Šergan from 15.30 p.m., Suzanne Leup Šimenko, Marjana Kotnik Porotat from 14:00 p.m., Dr. Jasna Murgel from 18:00 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 17:00 p.m., Luka Mesec from 16:00 p.m. Alexander Kavčič, mag. Matthew Tonin from 16:00 on, Dusan Radic, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Franc Jurša, Tomaž Gantar from 17:00 on, Bojan Podkrodšek, Franc Breznik, Ivan Hršak from 15:00 on and Jožef Horvat from 16:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. Agenda item — Proposal for a law supplementing the law restricting the use of tobacco and related products, reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 23 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Saš Tabaković. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Mr Sasa Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, good morning! Today, we are considering the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products, which would allow herbal cigarette substitutes to be used for their artistic expression and production only on stage during the performance. Several members of both the coalition and the opposition have assessed that in the case of theatres at the last ZOUTPI novelty, when the ban on the use of herbal cigarettes in closed rooms was equated with a normal cigarette, it was overly restrictive to the field of artistic activity – we have already warned about this when the last ZOUTPI was adopted. It should be borne in mind that much of the Slovenian and world dramas of the 19th or 20th century, which Slovenian theatres are obliged to carry out under the constitution, could not be properly included in the repertoires of the season. Some theatres have also announced the withdrawal, some have already withdrawn certain performances from the current repertoire, as direct intervention or change under the current law would not be possible because dramatic works from this period simply stem from the time of society when smoking was an integral part of life or social patterns when awareness towards the harmful consequences of nicotine use has not yet been spread. Moreover, at certain social moments, an important part of the emancipation of social groups, a description of the situation and, in particular, of the individual's personality characteristics, followed, of course, by dramatic proposals. And the artist on stage only further underlines this situation. Therefore, smoking cigarette substitutes in these performances is a dramatic necessity and not a whim of artistic creators, as it has been heard several times by certain civil society. The use of other substitutes also depends on the aesthetics of the show itself, which has already been explained on the parent committee. Let me say that since 2007 when ZOUTPI was adopted, no smoking has been allowed in the theatre as a public space. The exception is the stage where they were used for the artistic production of herbal cigarettes. In this way, the repertoire choice of theatres did not collapse, but at the same time the community's decision to reduce tobacco consumption in public places was overly respected. With the amendment of the law, we are in fact merely preserving the situation in 2007, which in terms of proportionality has proved to be the need for artistic creation to be somehow optimal and, above all, to be the most appropriate in practice. I would like to point out that no one on the show is forcing the use of cigarette substitutes. The audience was also well informed about the performance on the stage of the incense before entering the hall. With this exception, we are not unique in Slovenia, including other European countries, some are listed in the bill itself, for artistic reasons despite the implementation of the European directive, which is the basis of the tobacco law, allowing the use of cigarette substitutes. Let me end by adding that it is true that everyone has the right to a healthy environment, and the fact is that no one objects. Nor are the signatories of this novel, but the theatre with all the elements that connect it is in the first place a space of social consensus between the performer and the audience. Keep it that way for the future, so on behalf of all the signatories, I ask you for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Branko Zorman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The report of the Health Committee is as follows. The Health Committee is at its 10th meeting. 5. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Saša Tabakovic to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 91st meeting, on 13. 4. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. Member Saš Tabakovic's amendment to Article 1 has been tabled to the draft law within a set time limit. The introductory explanation of the bill was given by Saša Tabaković. He stressed that the aim of the proposed amendment was to enable the realization of the constitutionally protected right to free artistic creation and expression and artistic freedom. The proposed amendment allows smoking in closed areas, which are intended for cultural activities by means of herbal products for smoking if smoking is part of the stage art play. The stage art is a common title for the artistic expression for speech, gesture, sound, movement with which the artist presents himself in the performance and includes ballet, dance, opera, pantomime and play. Smoking is allowed only on stage and during the duration of the performance. Only smoking of herbal products that do not contain tobacco or nicotine and which have no harmful effects on the health of both performers and viewers is permitted. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their written legal opinion and said that freedom of artistic creation, as provided for in Article 59 of the Constitution, is a special form of freedom of expression provided for in Article 39 of the Constitution. The constitutional provision contains a valuable principle and undertakes to maintain and promote artistic creation without any legal restriction, but this does not mean that freedom of artistic creation is totally unlimited. The restrictions laid down by the Constitution are permissible alone and the protection of the rights of others. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health. It stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the proposal for a reduction in the harmfulness of herbal cigarettes that do not contain tobacco. The government also points out that, in addition to the right to freedom of artistic creation, the right to a healthy living environment and the equal protection of fundamental rights and freedoms and equality from the law are protected by the Constitution. The opinion of the National Council of the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by mag. Peter Pozun. He stressed that the Commission does not support the bill and notes that NGOs are also opposed to the proposed amendments. Hereinafter, representatives of NGOs and the National Institute for Public Health presented their views on the draft law. In the course of the discussion, the applicant rejected the allegations of paid advertising by the tobacco industry issued by representatives of non-governmental organisations. Support was expressed for the bill by members of the committee. The Committee voted on the amendment to Article 1 and adopted it. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Jožica Maučec Zakotnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposed amendment to the Tobacco and Related Products Restriction Act provides an exception to the prohibition on smoking in all closed public and labour areas. It allows smoking of herbal products for smoking on stage during the duration of the performance in closed public spaces, which are intended for cultural activities, if smoking is part of the stage art play. The main objective of the bill is, according to the proposaler, to enable the exercise of the constitutionally protected right to free artistic creation. The Ministry of Health considers that the law in force does not constitute a restriction on artistic freedom, as there are props on the market for use in theatres. With the use of these props, it is possible to show smoking in performances. That is the case with cases of countries where smoking of tobacco and herbal products on stage such as Austria, Finland, Scotland and Wales is also prohibited. The amendment of the law within such a short period of time after its entry into force is an undue pressure on the revision of the regime, which was adopted by the National Assembly without a vote. In practice, legal solutions have not yet been fully implemented and therefore it is not possible to assess their appropriateness or effectiveness. This is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in its opinion, stated that the applicant does not explain in his explanation why it is not possible to illustrate smoking through props and thus ensure both free artistic expression and a healthy environment. In addition, we stress that the current regulation has high public support, as a recent public opinion survey has shown that more than two-thirds of the respondents support the law, and only 20% support it. The theatres, in accordance with the previous law, did not have any specific exceptions which would allow the use of herbal products for smoking as claimed by the proposer. The 2007 Act dealt only with tobacco products and herbal products were not included in the provisions of the law at all. Today, we know that smoking herbal cigarettes or exposure to the smoke of herbal cigarettes is equally harmful to health. The smoke of herbal cigarettes is similar to that of carbon monoxide, tar and a number of carcinogenic and health-related substances. We note that in addition to the right to freedom of artistic creation, the right to a healthy living environment is protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the equal protection of fundamental rights and freedoms and equality from the law. Players, like all other employees, have the right to a healthy working environment in which they are not exposed to the harmful effects of tobacco and related products. The proposed amendment interferes with the regulation of tobacco control in such a way that a particular group of employees reduces the right to smoke unpolluted air with tobacco and even forces it to smoke harmful herbal cigarette substitutes. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out the harmful effects of the use of herbal cigarettes and stressed that, in addition to the right to free artistic creation, the right to a healthy living environment is protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Nor did the competent commission of the Council of State support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law that we are considering today is not in force for even half a year, but it has already proved to be flawed. When we discussed the shortcomings of the bill at the time, the Social Democrats had a kind of problem and were even marked with lobbyists. The proposer proposes an amendment to the article complementing the freedom of artistic expression and restricting it to specific areas, as was the case with the amendment. This is a re-implementation of an exception which has been enacted in the previous law. In our view, the proposed amendment has been well-founded and we will also undermine it. But once we open up the shortcomings of this law, we cannot pass through the whole process of enacting the law, but not just us, that the definition of closed space is not appropriate because it will bring about the requirements for changing existing guest gardens and terraces. At that time, we were told that it would not be so that nothing would change for anyone. In particular, it has been pointed out that those innkeepers who had decorated terraces or guest gardens under the old law cannot be punished because there will be no change, since the changes brought about by the new law are still within the legal framework. However, this has not been the case, as has been shown in practice. In the first week following the entry into force of the provisions, the guests suddenly visited very active inspectors and began to write sentences. Not EUR 100 or 200, but also EUR 3 000 500 is fined because someone today interprets that flower pots are part of a wall or a closed area. Because someone interprets that now half a metre in height of a stretching plastic or wooden fence that borders a terrace from the road is a full wall. Such absurd cases are even more so, and such a guest is being punished with a fine of €3,000,500. Do we even know what this means for small innkeepers who have to work honestly and firmly for this money? We've been warning about such anomalies all along the adoption of the law. That absurdity is even greater, these facts are denied and it continues to be claimed that nothing has changed. Yes, it is. Because if it were true what is said, then people for terraces who are identical, as they were before the adoption of the law, would not be paying as high a fine today. And now we are likely to be the biggest lobbyists again, when we demand that this be corrected, to issue mandatory instructions to inspectors, which we have also warned about, and to explain to them that the new law has not intervened in this matter and that they are obviously acting contrary to the law when they issue penalties. But if these anomalies do not escape, we too will consider and submit a novel that, like this one today, will bring back an old arrangement that does not allow absurdity. But the damage that was done is irreparable. But unfortunately, a few months ago, we weren't heard. I just hope we're heard today, at least because of such non-communication, we're changing a two-month-old marriage. Once again: two months! Of course, we will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats, because we see no reason not to join it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the United Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we support the proposed amendment to the tobacco law. February's adoption of tobacco law has largely narrowed down the possibility of the promotion and sale of tobacco products and introduced better control over the components of tobacco products and related products. In some respects, however, the law intervened in the freedom of artistic creation, which we in the United Left had already pointed out during its adoption and put in place appropriate amendments, but unfortunately they were rejected two months ago. The new tobacco law has also restricted the use of herbal products and maintained the ban on smoking in closed areas and thus prohibited the use of herbal substitutes in the theatre. Today's proposal, which has also received support on the parent's working body, allows players to use herbal substitutes to stage characters that require smoking. In this context, the proposal specifies that the exception applies only to theatre, it is said, to premises intended exclusively for cultural activities and only for players during the performance. The proposal protects the constitutionally protected right to free artistic creation, without jeopardising the legitimate aims of banning smoking and advertising cigarettes. Smoking within the stage art is not performed in the role of the promotion of tobacco products, but art has its own function and meaning. It can serve as a presentation of the character, showcases his class membership, presents his social habits, and portrays the life of a certain time. This law proposes that the long-standing practice of the use of cigarette substitutes in theatre performances be maintained, as it is an important element for the implementation of performances which does not undermine the purpose of the original law. I would like to point out that the law prohibits so-called indirect advertising in its 29th Article, which means that the player must not display a pack of cigarettes with the label of the manufacturer. In the United Left, we supported new tobacco legislation mainly because it stepped on the fingers of large tobacco multinationals and limited their profits for the benefit of public health. In doing so, we have noted that the problem of addiction is largely due to social conditions and social relations. People don't die for cigarettes as much as they die for social exclusion and poverty. And we can't put anything like that on a theater show. In the United Left, we point out that over-prohibition and moralisation can discredit such measures to improve public health and achieve exactly the opposite effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u12	Dear colleagues, have a good day! Certainly tobacco products require their tax, a high tax, and therefore some statistics for the introduction. Every year 6 million people die from tobacco, in Slovenia on day 10, which means 3 000 600 a year. One in four died before the age of 60, many between the ages of 30 and 44. We could continue to list this statistics, as the proponents, the ministry and the coalition mentioned, when we drew attention to errors in the adoption of that law at first reading – I think February – and the issue. This is an important statistic, which is when we agreed. Surely we were in too much of a hurry at the time to adopt that legislation and then there were anomalies. We stressed that it is the individual’s responsibility to decide. We have therefore adopted in the National Assembly the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products, Article 39 of which prohibits the use of tobacco, tobacco products and related products in all closed public and labour spaces. The third paragraph of this Article also lists exceptions which do not allow exceptions to the field of art. At the same time, in the case of Novi Slovenija, we also drew attention to the problem. Also the problem that the innkeepers are addressing today is whether or not smoking is possible or possible in the passages and so on. Thus, in New Slovenia we point out that we are extremely careful when legislation is adopted. To a certain extent, a person may understand a proposal based on the right to free artistic creation and the application of an exception which, according to the applicant, is already known, or from the previous 1996-2007 Act, when allowing the use of tobacco products or herbal preparations in theatre plays. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Health said on the home work body that the law in force, according to the Ministry, does not constitute a restriction on artistic freedom, as there are props on the market for use in theatres. Using these props, according to her, it is possible to show smoking in performances. This is evidenced by the case of countries where smoking of tobacco and herbal products on stage such as Austria, Finland and Scotland is also prohibited. But the key thing in this law, when we decide whether or not to do so, is that the amendment of the law in such a short time is said to be in effect within a short period of time after its entry into force, is in fact undue pressure on the revision of this whole arrangement, which, while without a vote against it, was adopted by the National Assembly. In practice, marriage solutions have not yet been fully implemented, so in certain cases it is not possible to assess their appropriateness or effectiveness, we only receive warnings from the public, either rewarded or harmed by this law. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also stated in its opinion that the applicant does not explain why it is not possible to illustrate smoking through other props. The State Secretary also stressed that the theatres, in accordance with the previous law, did not have any specific exceptions which would allow the use of herbal products for smoking, as claimed by the proposer. The 2007 Act dealt only with tobacco products and herbal products were not included in the provisions of the law at all and today we meet them for the first time. Despite the opposition of the Government, professions, NGOs, this proposal was adopted at a meeting of the Committee of the Working Body for Health and was therefore supported by the Act on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products. In New Slovenia, for those reasons, for a key reason, therefore, too little time has passed to see the effects of the previous law, which was adopted in essence in January, February, too little time has passed, which is why we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u13	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The purpose of the amendment to the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products is to enable the exercise of the constitutionally protected right to free artistic creation and the application of the exception already known or permitted by the original law from 1996 to 2007. Since 2007, there has been a total ban on tobacco use in theatres and the use of so-called substitute herbal cigarettes has been permitted. The law did not then address herbal and other related products. The view prevailed that, for example, in theatres and other performances of stage art, smoking cigarettes, pipe and cigar is an integral part of artistic expression. Therefore, smoking of tobacco products was prohibited in theatres, except for the purposes of performances, where the performing parties could use substitutes for tobacco products, while the theatres adequately equipped the premises in which they were performing for smoke performances and the new law also prohibited the use of such smoke substitutes for smoke. The proposed amendment allows for an exception to smoking in closed areas, namely, smoking of herbal products in closed public areas which are intended for cultural activities. We do not oppose the new law, but we have supported it not least, but we note that, in addressing it, there has been a disregard for the exception mentioned above and that the restrictions, which, by reason of public interest in the field of health, may affect the communication value of works of art. While we did not want to raise the latter in the debate because of the multitude of more important issues, we did not want to make it difficult to adopt a law that was already under strong pressure. The amendment adds a new Article 39a to the text of the current law, which introduces exceptions to smoking in closed spaces. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, they would only allow smoking of herbal products, i.e. suitable substitutes for tobacco products that do not contain tobacco or nicotine and do not have such harmful effects on the health of actors and viewers. However, the exception, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, is in a narrower sense limited only to the stage and only to the duration of the performance. This exception will not apply to exercises. In performances of stage art, smoking can be part of the author's expression and thus the prohibition would extend to the very essence or integrity of artistic work. If the law in force were to be applied in an unaltered form, they should interfere with the works of art or their message value. The professional public notes, however, that Slovenian theatres present a major part of the classical parts of the previous century, when awareness towards the harmful effects of nicotine use was no enlargement and that the ban on smoking on theatre stage would significantly impoverish repertoires, since by erasing parts of scenes in some parts they would trim or destroy the components of the author's work. It is worth noting that the proposed regulation is comparable to those in some other Member States of the European Union, which, in spite of restrictive art legislation, allow for exceptions; it allows smoking of tobacco products or substitutes. It is worth noting that the amendment does not violate a prohibition restricting the advertising of tobacco and tobacco products, as works of art are not intended to promote smoking. For example, many dramas or scenes are often linked to smoking because they describe social habits at the time and so forth. For in stage art life is depicted as it is, and part of it is smoking. Allow me to use the debate of one of my fellow Members, my colleague Ivan Prelog, on the committee that supported the novel with the following words: "In defence, I must express to my colleague Mr Tabakovic the fear that such or such exaggerations will lead to outrageous absurd absurdities that will make our lives worse. I bet on a normal life myself, and I'm sure I'm not the only one.” We will therefore support the proposal in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Good day to you all in the hall! In February of this year, we adopted a so-called tobacco law here in the National Assembly. The law had high support in the procedure, both in public, in profession, in coalition and in opposition. However, after a good two-month period, a group of 18 colleagues, according to Members of the Modern Centre Party, have tabled a proposal to amend the law in order to ensure artistic freedom and freedom of expression. The proposed amendment should allow smoking by means of herbal products for smoking in closed public spaces, which are intended for cultural activities if smoking is part of an art play. The applicants base their request that this exception be limited only to the stage and duration of the performance in order to protect both the performers and the viewers as much as possible. Applicants state that smoking in performances of stage art is, of course, an integral part of artistic expression and that it can happen that the ban on smoking in performances will distort the author's expression, communication and that the prohibition will extend to the very essence of artistic work; and that is probably true. On the other hand, it is also necessary to take into account the right of an individual to health and to a healthy living environment, which is not least the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and requires appropriate measures from the legislator to ensure them. The Constitution also guarantees freedom of artistic creation without a legal reservation, but this does not mean that freedom of artistic creation is completely unlimited. Those restrictions laid down by the Constitution and restrictions are permissible in order to protect the rights of others. In the adoption of the tobacco law in February, we in this National Assembly rejected the amendment of the United Left, which proposed deleting Article 29, paragraph 7, of this Act, which speaks of advertising, but this Article 29, paragraph 7, of the existing law prohibits the display or use of tobacco products in the context of television content and public appearances intended for persons under 18 years of age, except in films, sequels and postages. However, this is only about television audiences, and the fact is that visitors to theatre performances are also under 18 years old. Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are also asked which group of artists or some interested public will, of course, announce itself as a candidate for the amendment of this law in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will vote in our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We will not vote unitedly on the amendment of the law restricting the use of tobacco products in the DeSUS Group. This is a complement to the so - called tobacco law, which would allow herbal cigarettes to be smoked on stage. Part of the members of our parliamentary group was among the co-signors of the bill and it is clear that they will support the law themselves, as they feel similarly as the proposer that by banning smoking on stage between theatre performances we can violate artistic freedom, especially since the exception will only allow the use of herbal cigarettes. The players themselves will be able to decide whether to smoke herbal cigarettes or to use alternative props that can be trusted to display cigarettes and are intended for performances in the theater. The section of the Parliamentary Group, which is not in favour of the amendment, agrees with the opinion of the Ministry of Health and NGOs, which strongly oppose the exceptions to the barely-adopted tobacco law, which, by the way, was also widely supported by the public and even the World Health Organisation. The biggest problem with the use of herbal cigarettes is mainly the display of smoking as something attractive, mystical, adult. This can also be an incentive that has an important impact on young people who can quickly resort to harmful behaviors after this proven health during the most sensitive period of growing up. With regard to the support of the proposal for a new law, which appears to be a harmless change, there is a great dilemma, and it also proves the Government's opinion, which has given us Members a direct responsibilities to decide whether they have a greater weight for a healthy environment and the interests of public health or the right to artistic freedom. The Ministry of Culture supports the novel proposal, while the Ministry of Health strongly opposes it. So different is the opinion of our parliamentary group, and, as I have already mentioned, our vote on the bill will therefore be uneven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of Tuesday's 30th vote. 5. 2017. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Health Action Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u20	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, which will make an important contribution in the field of health to the preservation of the social state. Why? Because with it we maintain a solidarity public health care. This means that our health is based on a network of public health institutions and concessionaries or private individuals enter the public system where they need a doctor and the public network does not provide it. I must point out that this law does not specifically regulate the status of private doctors for whom citizens and citizens pay for their services. A number of ministers have failed to attempt to amend the Health Act. That is why I am particularly pleased that my team and this government and the Ministry have succeeded in bringing the law before you, Members and Members of Parliament, to the National Assembly, where we have the opportunity to explain what the law actually brings. Because the opposition and criticisms of the law were very intense and often unjustifiable, sometimes misleading, especially when those who disagreed with the legal solutions tried to show the public that the adoption of the law meant a breakdown of the health system. On the contrary! This law is a health law for people. Not only because Slovenians put health first, but mainly because health in Slovenia remains public, accessible to all people, regardless of the level of income. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act regulates the organisation and implementation of health activities in the Republic of Slovenia, which has not been amended for 25 years, that is, since the adoption of the law, and our country and we have changed significantly during this time. What does marriage do? First, it determines who and under what conditions in our country may be authorised to carry out medical activities. It further specifies when concessions can be granted. Again, after the new award of the concession, it will not depend on the wishes of private doctors, as it has been so far, but on the needs of the people of Slovenia. Furthermore, the law regulates the health activity of certain social and educational institutions which have been released in the current law. It introduces different forms of control over all healthcare providers, which has not been regulated either. Finally, it regulates what forms of advertising of health activities and health services are allowed in the Republic of Slovenia; let me just remind you how many misleading ads there have been. Dear Members and Members! I am confident that the proposed changes for patients will mean greater quality and safety of health services and that our public health system will be more transparent and that people will have access to a doctor in public health institutions. Allow me to point out the case of Austria, which is much ahead of Slovenia, but we overstepped them when we had access to a personal physician. It was precisely for these reasons that the Government insisted on this law, although there have been many objections since the moment we presented the proposal. He was also part of the professional public and some medical organizations. One of their main findings was that we favour public health institutions in relation to private people in obtaining the right to provide health services from public funds. That is why I repeat again – from public funds. Our answer is, the state and the local level of the municipalities by establishing public health institutions exercise their responsibility and responsibility for the implementation of the health system as one of the providers of social security or the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe in the law that you will recognize and support the right solutions for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u21	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Miha Kordish is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Access to health services has deteriorated in recent years, which is most evident in the extension of waiting periods. Those with higher average incomes can afford self - paying services, and all others must wait for what can seriously endanger their health. This situation benefits one narrow group – these are the owners of health companies and insurance companies offering insurance for self-paying services. It's bad for everyone else. It harms patients who wait too long for checks and treatment in public institutions; it harms public institutions themselves because they lose income and personnel; it harms self-payers, after all, because they have to pay something that should provide compulsory health insurance. If we're going to solve this problem, we have to do two. We must immediately stop the flow of funds and personnel from the public system to the private sector, and in the medium term we must bring both resources and doctors back into the public system in order to ensure that the people get what they need in time. The following measures should be taken to ensure such a health situation. Firstly, physicians should be eliminated in order to do more work in the public system. This would increase the availability of health services, which are free of charge for all residents. Secondly, a moratorium should be introduced on new concessions and all existing concessions awarded without public tender should be abolished. In this way, a substantial amount of resources would be returned to the public health system, which is currently being drained from it. Thirdly, in health care homes and hospitals we should hire as many new doctors as possible and provide modern equipment. In this way, the excuses for granting new and new concessions would be waived. The government proposal does not guarantee all of this. The government says it regulates the field of concessions and afternoon work. Unfortunately, that's true, but in the worst possible way. The government proposal does not restrict concessions and does not eliminate the appearance of physicians of amphibians. This proposal only legalises the bad practices currently taking place in the Grey Zone. In the debate, we will highlight the specific provisions that need to be amended, and in the grave, I can say that the Government has done nothing that is necessary in order for the health system to normally perform its function. This afternoon's work by doctors from the public system in the private sector. How does this proposal regulate this? Instead of having a public-private separation on the table, the Government proposes that a doctor can work with a private person up to eight hours a week, which is 20% of his work obligation, and thus directly encourages them to do less in the public system so that they can earn more in the private system. In this way, waiting periods will only extend. Come on, concessions. The government proposes that concessions be granted for 15 years and that they can then be extended for another 15 years, following a simplified procedure. The concessionaires will still not have to pay the concession fee and will be free to make profits. Health care providers will be able to establish anyone, and worse yet, there are no clear criteria for when concessions can be signed at all. In some normal social regulation, the State authorities would first check whether there are sufficient doctors for the number of residents and then allocate additional funds to a healthcare home or an outpatient in a particular area. Well, we have practice on our hands. An invitation to tender is being maimed by a private person who wants to obtain a concession. A purely specific example: last August, for example, dentists at the Medical House in Ljubljana collectively decided to become concessionaires, and the municipality was asked to sign concessions and to rent them their current office. Fortunately, this initiative has failed because of public opposition, but there are no safeguards in the current law against such abuses. Reinforcement of the public system. What do we have to do? If we want to attract doctors and patients, after all, back under the cover of the public or keep them there, we will need to invest a lot of money in the personnel and resources, and we simply can't do that. Unfortunately, however, government plans lead in the opposite direction. On the one hand, the government plans to reduce expenditure on the public sector as a whole, while at the same time increasing expenditure on the military. Math is unfortunately unmerciful. More for weapons means less for social policy, less for development and ultimately less for health, so we ask the socialists to stop spending on NATO's old iron and to provide funds to invest in the health of all citizens and citizens on equal terms, non-discriminatory. At the end of this introductory definition, I will hold back once again in the essence of the problem, saying what every citizen needs to know about this law. The concerts and the afternoon work of doctors have fallen apart to the extent that the principles of the health system are felt as an extension of waiting periods, which unfortunately is also confirmed by official data. The current situation benefits exclusively the owners of private health companies and insurance companies that market insurance for self-payment services, and this harms all other citizens. Advocates of this situation are primarily the Medical Chamber and Fides, which protect the narrow interests of concessionaires and small groups of profiteer doctors, and for these people the minimum limit of concessions or the afternoon work will be unacceptable. They will go against any law that does not allow full liberalisation and unlimited health benefits, and it is therefore totally incomprehensible that the Government does not try to restrict these bad practices, but only legalises them. Look. Medical organizations and privateists will equally protest if you limit their afternoon work to eight hours or if you simply forbid it. They also objected to limiting concessions to 30 years as they now oppose limiting concessions to 15 years. So why should we legislators limit ourselves to cosmetic corrections? Why not take root and do what needs to be done? For the coalition, there is a possible explanation for the ruling coalition, which I also believe is true, namely that SD and Desus voluntarily represent the interests of private parties and the interests of commercial insurance undertakings at the expense of public interest. Of course, the Socialists cannot support such a proposal. But we decided not to press the counter button. Why? The objectives of this law, the stated objectives of this law are right and can be achieved by amendments in a second way, of course, provided that the coalition acts in the public interest instead of protecting the interests of the medical and insurance lobby as it has been so far. Today, during this debate, we will listen to SDS and NSI attacks from the right. The right parliamentary tribunal will always claim that the law limits concessions and doctors' afternoon work too much. All of this does not mean, as they like to say in the coalition, that marriage is somehow balanced. The SDS and NSIs are always openly on the side of capitalism in the health sector and thus on the side of insurance companies and private individuals. They represent the same identical interests as Fides and the Medical Chamber. We cannot take such dynamics from the National Assembly for any measure. I repeat, the coalition has enough votes to adopt the law and reject the veto of the State Council. In this way, she has accepted many harmful, kind of, from the second track to the privatisation of funeral activities. But what if, dear coalition fellow Members, once for a change this power of theirs and use it for the benefit of the people rather than for the benefit of a narrow profit interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u23	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Health Act prepared by the Government should therefore be judged in the field of reform legislation, reform legislation in the field of health, which we are so sung that it will come and we will soon have something. At the outset, I stress that in New Slovenia we will not support this law and we oppose it, because this law does not strengthen public health, this law does not strengthen public health. This is strengthened by allowing for a certain degree of competitiveness, and this law completely fails to compete. In Novi Slovenija, we would also expect the Minister to bring in a package of laws to facilitate the creation of a full picture of the legislation that she wants to achieve with changes in health care. We therefore believe that before this law we should consider the management and management law, for example, the management of public health institutions, which, by the way, are drowning in major losses and are in a crisis of governance. In preparing the law itself, the most opposition to the professional public and within the coalition triggered the area of regulation of concessions and the establishment of the institution of the responsible institution. In fact, it seems that the Minister is going to fight against everything in this case and wants to exercise her right. But the key question is whether we will achieve the ultimate goals of this opposition. Who is opposed to the law? Well, the law is opposed to the coordination of medical organisations, whose members are the Medical Chamber, the Slovenian Medical Association, Fides and the Professional Association of Private Doctors and Dentists of Slovenia, which expressed support for the opinion of the Young Doctors of Slovenia. And it is not good for us to adopt legislation, to insist and insist on it, which is opposed by so many professional public. Young doctors in Slovenia have made clear the irreparable consequences for the patient and the incomprehensible degradation of young specialists, which the adoption of the law can bring. The proposed law therefore clearly shows that the aim of the applicant is not to concern the patient, to address the issue of compulsory health insurance rights, and that this poor regulation governs the relationship between the ZZS and health service providers and clearly excludes private operators from the public health network, and that is why Christian Democrats cannot really support it, particularly in the care of patients. The law is based on concepts that are contrary to modern health trends. Modern health care aims at decentralisation and thus greater access to health care, strengthening the primary level, rationalising the use of resources and the right of all citizens to equal care. Despite additions to the draft law, the consequences of the employment of young specialists are contrary to all of the above. And in this place, I ask you not to talk about public health, but let us talk about public health, because part of public health is also private. With the introduction of a new institution of responsible health care providers, the proposal certainly also affected the constitutional right of young health workers to freedom of work and free economic initiative, including in the opinion of the Medical Chamber. The changes envisaged in the law will, at the moment, undermine certain segments of the health system. In particular, it is a deprived region which is already humanely fed and mostly in the work of individual doctors. Despite the increased influx of young specialists expected in the coming years or in some places already taking place, young specialists will not be allowed to do their work on their own, despite obtaining a specialist license, and I ask you whether this is a good thing. Is that good or not good? It is certainly a matter of degradation of young specialists, and it will happen that areas where they have waited for years to improve their staff shortages or have just successfully replaced the retirement of a specialist with a new young specialist, have lost a health care provider and thus a health activity. What, then, will be the consequences of the lost health care activities for other healthcare professionals whose employment is linked to the work of a team run by a doctor? Unfortunately, we do not know what the consequences of adopting this legislation will be, but we can only think of what it means to lose health care in particular for patients who are in an unequal situation with more privileged areas which are generally located in larger centres. Therefore, since the proposed changes further undermine the accessibility of healthcare at the primary level, notably in already deprived regions, the consequences can be truly poor, catastrophic. Patients will be forced to seek assistance elsewhere, at secondary or even tertiary levels of health care, which will: first, inevitably prolong waiting periods at secondary and tertiary levels; secondly, increase the number of hospitalisations; thirdly, due to much more expensive higher-level care, the use of funds will increase significantly; fourthly, the continuity of care of the patient who follows primary care and who has been shown to reduce the additional morbidity and mortality of the patients; and fifthly, the disease and mortality of the patients will increase. Thus, the law indirectly violates the right to equal and safe health care for citizens and citizens. In addition, it directly violates the right to free movement of labour, in particular doctors. It limits the autonomy of doctors and patients, limits the free choice of physicians and limits the practice of physicians, and this profession is further discriminated against against all other professions. It is also totally incomprehensible to further degradation of young specialists, i.e. up to five years after the specialist examination, by which the right to the basic activity of each licensed doctor is withdrawn so that he may be a health care provider. Despite the continuing postgraduate specialisation, attention, which lasts up to six years and ends with a specialist examination, which is a professional formal proof of self-employment competence, young specialists are deprived of their right to self-employed work and are limited in their mode of employment and type of institution. This kind of restrictive action is completely unknown and incomprehensible to us in Europe and the developed countries of the world. If the law is adopted, then we expect, on the one hand, the interest and decline in admission to the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana and Maribor, and on the other hand, the most worrying reason for the departure of young specialists from Slovenia to abroad, instead of doing everything to keep young experts in the country. Young doctors from Slovenia want to work in a regulated system where patients will be provided with safe and quality care, in accordance with the principles of equality, justice and solidarity. And even if these changes occur with regard to young specialists and doctors, as well as by limiting someone as much as they can work, then the best staff, those best experts who want to work, will of course go out of state health. A lot of them will go abroad. So if someone wants to work and make a living doing it. Let him do it. From someone's work and someone's well-earned, we all have more. The proposed changes to the law, everything mentioned above, which we are pointing to in Novi Slovenije, which also reminds us of the profession, are not possible. We were all, we are, whether we are patients and we are or we will need a quality health system; a health system that works not only on paper but that works is actually in use for patients. On the one hand, you can listen to the minister who proposes this law. I believe that you are skeptical in the coalition and also in the largest government party to this proposal. So you can listen to the Minister and the United Left on one side and get the Venezuelan health system. I don't want that kind of medical system myself. Such a law does not bring improvements and we oppose it in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u25	The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u26	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a novel of the Health Act has been subject to broad and long-term coordination. The primary objective of these changes is to maintain and strengthen a health system based on public health in a way that strengthens the public health service and brings about changes that improve the implementation of health activities in order to ensure greater transparency, efficiency, expertise and more effective supervision. The novelty removes the subordination and weakness of the current system in the field of authorisation for the exercise of health activities. By laying down the conditions and procedures for the authorisation and the precise conditions for the withdrawal of licences, for the first time all health service providers will be treated equally. The conditions for obtaining a permit will apply equally to all private healthcare professionals and private doctors who are authorised to carry out medical activities by entering a register of private health professionals or a register of doctors. One of the main and public solutions concerns the area of awarding concessions. The bill follows the objective of strengthening public health in a way that establishes a system that will allow for the award of concessions in a transparent and uniform manner. Concessionaires are still an important part of the public health network following this proposal, as they complement this network in cases where public health institutions cannot or cannot carry out certain health services to the extent necessary. Strategic planning is envisaged both at the primary and secondary levels, as the basis for the tendering of the concession is a prior act of concession, which must include, inter alia, an explanation and a determination of the conditions for the tendering of the concession. This ensures the granting of concessions for the execution of health activities in a transparent and competitive manner, which are two basic principles of concessionary relations. It is also complemented by the provision of conditions for the provision of health services to healthcare professionals employed in public health establishments outside the public service. It is laid down in the general rule that a healthcare professional employed in a public health service or another public service undertaking carrying out a health activity may provide health services to another healthcare professional only under specified conditions. The terms and conditions vary according to whether they are the provision of health services to another public institution, i.e. the public health institution or another public institution, or to another health operator. The diversity of regulation stems from the existence of elements of the competitiveness of activities and the existence of a risk of conflicts of interest and corruption risks, which we are well aware of from existing practices of the health system. The proposal also comprehensively regulates all forms of supervision of healthcare providers, inspection of the implementation of the law and the area of advertising of health services, which has not been regulated so far. With the amendment to the Health Act, we follow the coalition objective of strengthening public health in order to better separate public and private health activities. Quality and effective health care is still our priority, as we believe that the health system must maintain its universality and accessibility, which can only be ensured through a clearer border between public and private health activities. The bill brings these important steps towards strengthening public health, which is why we support it in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. More about the content itself then during the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u27	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you for saying a nice hello again. The fact is that our health system is in a deep crisis, all of which is reflected in long waiting lines, the crisis of managing public health institutions, affairs, systemic corruption, political staffing, no public network, no standards, no competition, and patients, as well as young doctors, are going abroad, and this government has not been able to take any appropriate action in three years. We have expected systemic changes, but we have received a proposal for a law which, of course, is intended to limit concessions and, like other laws that come from the Ministry of Health, is also harmful to citizens. Minister, in your opening statement, you said that you brought us the law and that this law would mean some kind of human health, and I think this law is written for healthy people who don't need doctors. The novelity of the Health Act, if I say more after the domestic concession law, was therefore put by the Minister of Health in a one-month public debate at the end of September 2015. The new Health Act, which was at the time in public debate, consisted of 13 articles; note, 13 articles. And how many articles do we have in front of us today? Forty-seven paragraphs. Article 13 of 2015, today 47 articles, i.e. three times more, the Minister did not feel worthy to put this law back into public debate. In accordance with Article 71 of the Medical Service Act, the Medical Chamber sent a protest to the Minister in October 2015, i.e. during the public debate, and then requested the withdrawal of the law from the public debate because the Chamber of the Ministry did not allow any cooperation in the drafting of the text of that law. In fact, the Chamber with the fact that the Ministry is preparing an amendment to the Health Act in 2015 has not been informed at all. To remind you, Article 71 of the Medical Services Act stipulates, I quote, "The Chamber has the following tasks: participation in the preparation of laws, planning documents, human resources plans and other health regulations." In its opinion of 7 January 2016, the government replied, and I will quote, “In view of the cooperation with the Medical Chamber under Article 71 of the Medical Services Act, it is necessary to take into account that the Government is the regulatory authority that formulates and implements health policy, and has the right and the obligation to create work materials, taking into account the general objectives and benefits and also to pursue the political objectives set.” All that the Government holds in this statement is that the government, of course, follows the political objectives set, but far from the needs of our citizens and far from the needs that our health system urgently needs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, after the conclusion of the debate in November 2015, we put in the procedure a proposal for a recommendation concerning a proposal for a Health Action Act proposing that the National Assembly should recommend to the Government and the Ministry to reconsider its comments and that if it is found that the proposal is contrary to EU law, the proposal withdraws and prepares a new one. Of course, it does not need to be pointed out here that our recommendations were rejected here in November 2015 in the National Assembly. At the beginning of 2016, the Minister began to convince the public, the professional and the government with her promises to see the light of September 2016. Of course, there were no changes until September, so the Minister of Government and the Coalition promised once again that health reform would be ready and made public 12. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We all remember each other well, 12. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day It does not need to be stressed that we all expected the Health Act, the Health and Insurance Act, the Public Administration and Management Act and the Patients' Rights Act. But we waited again for nothing; not just the coalition and the opposition, also our citizens, who, of course, pay for this health system. In December 2016, we received only promises again, this time that legislation will be prepared and aligned with the January 2017 coalition. Today is May 2017, which means a year and a half of promises and pretends. And a year and a half of coalition coordination, which did not go in the direction of the well-being of improving the health care of our citizens or the health system, but in the interests of the individual party interests of the coalition, which often had nothing to do with health care. In the opening recital to this point, the Government listed the stakeholders and the comments made in the context of the 2015 public debate on those 13 articles, and I must say this, it is kind of funny. However, the proposal today, which we have on the table, as I said earlier, has 47 articles. The Ministry stated in its recital to this proposal that there were no external experts involved in the drafting of the law. You could have said that at home that she wasn't part of the profession. But this is nothing new for the health sector anyway, it is the established practice of this ministry, the profession is not taken into account, and only the desires and aspirations of its own and, of course, the behind-the-stage events that dominate the profession are at the forefront. Undoubtedly, because of the scale and the fact that the profession has not participated in the drafting of the law, it is necessary to hold a public debate and we will also propose this in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the next procedure of this law. It is also stated in the material or in the explanatory memorandum to this point that the preparation of the law did not involve external experts or experts but only those working with the Ministry of Health. I would like to know exactly who those fellow workers are, the internal associates of the Ministry of Health, and what their professional skills are. This will be very interesting to hear from here on out. However, these co-workers of the ministry were able to prepare a law that takes us back to 25 years ago. Our public institutions have been and are still unique in Europe. I think we all know that now. Public institutions should be transformed in accordance with EU law into public economic services or society, but such a form of public institutions as it is, of course, accountable to our government, as it allows public money to flow into private pockets. But that doesn't bother anyone yet. If I touch again the Government's opening arguments to this point. As an indication of the arrangements in other legal systems, the countries Denmark, Germany and Sweden are listed. In this comparison, why has the Government failed to provide or display other health systems of countries that are among the successful health systems? For example, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Belgium, Norway. In all of this comparison, however, the Government has overlooked that in comparable countries, Denmark, Germany and Sweden, is said to be recording the increase in concessionaires. For example, in Sweden, Germany has a public-private health system, as well as private doctors and health services in Denmark, and is financed by public funds. Therefore, if the Government provided a presentation of the regulation in other legal systems in explanation, it would expect that these solutions would be at least comparable to them in the draft law. Not to mention what I mean by what countries we can compare ourselves with, or this law; you probably know that I have in mind, say, Venezuela or North Korea. I would like to stress that all Europe sees under public health as financing public health services provided by public and private operators. We're the only ones here who have problems understanding the public. We were therefore expecting a law that would improve health services, but we were given a law in which the Minister's sole objective is to restrict concessions. What is absurd, however, is the Government's record to assess the consequences of the introduction of this law, where this material is explained, I quote, “The law will have a positive impact on the quality and expertise of health activities and thus on public health.” Positive impact on quality and expertise! Here I ask myself, or ask the drafter of this law, what are these positive impacts that will affect quality and expertise. Does this mean any smart planning, better management of public health institutions, reorganisation of work and operators, more efficient processes, better utilization of personnel, spaces and equipment, better quality, safety, competition – definitely not because these provisions are not in the amendments to this law! Even better or more ridiculous is the indication that accessibility to health services will be improved by this law. I must say, such statements are difficult to pass on, let alone when we read these explanations to the government. I am interested in how accessibility will improve and how waiting types will be reduced, but if you limit concessionaires who undoubtedly save this system from longer waiting species. The gradual reduction of concessionaires will, of course, mean an extension of waiting periods, and patients will be forced to seek help from private individuals as self-payers or to go abroad for treatment, where our health insurance company will reimburse them for their expenses, even though they will visit a private person abroad. Now I don't know why the Ministry is so hard to understand and is talking about improving health services. And there's not a word in this law about the public network. Not a word! The public network is the basis on which we should build this law. How the Ministry will know how many doctors it needs, but if it does not have the criteria and the established public network on the primary and not on the secondary. I hope that this need will not be assessed by the Ministry on the basis of yours and ours. This bill will definitely put Slovenian health care back in the socialist system of state health. Access to health services will continue to decline, waiting periods will be extended and patients will leave, as I said before, as well as young doctors abroad, and will continue to fill the pockets of individuals within the entire system, of course allowing systemic corruption. So the profession, as we can see in the preparation of this law, did not cooperate. Let's see what my profession is. The Medical Chamber, which was not invited to prepare 13 articles of the long law in 2015, participated in the draft law, which we are considering today with 47 articles. However, the Chamber states that none of their comments were taken into account. The Medical Chamber forwarded its comments on 22 pages. We have all received these comments, and in these comments the Chamber has mainly pointed out the internal discrepancy between the articles of the law or, in my own words, to the stupidity in the proposal of this law. At the request of the Medical Chamber, he also gave his opinion on the non-compliance of this proposal with European law with the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law. To quote their conclusions prepared by Dr. Rajko Pirnat and Boštjan Zuljan, I quote: “The proposal for amendments to the law is based on the wrong sub-menu so that public health services can be labelled by law by the concept of non-economic activity of general interest. This concept is based on EU law, which the drafter wrongly applied to public health care in order to justify an exemption from this area in its entirety from the achievement of European law. In terms of EU law, public health services, as organised in the Republic of Slovenia, should be treated properly as an economic activity or as a service of general economic interest. As a result, this error has also led to a completely wrong definition of the relationship of amendments to this law or this law to EU law, since the proposal for a law does not take into account the binding provisions arising directly from the Directives. One of the more obvious consequences of misdirection is that the proposal for amendments to the law regulates the procedure for granting concessions in a specific part in contravention of the requirements of the EU directives. It is incorrectly stated that the conditions for the provision of public health services can be regulated differently for public health institutions and concessionaires. The proposal to amend the law allows public authorities a priority right to manage public health services, which is contrary to the Directive. Moreover, the very procedure for determining the conditions for granting concessions in the draft law is too clear and unobjective and contrary to the criteria of European law. Persistence in the wrong definition of public service as non-economic activities also has a number of negative consequences for the country as other participants." These are the conclusions, therefore, dear colleagues, Dr. Pirnat, which you often quote and point out in the coalition. Next. Community of Doctors of Family Medicine PRACTIK. UM recommended that the amendment of the law be rejected. Young doctors have also come forward, stating in their writing that the law is of course having consequences that will be irreparable for the health of the most vulnerable groups of our citizens. The professional association of private doctors and dentists expresses the strongest protest against the proposal of this law and warns – and I will again say – that with the phasing out of concessions the waiting period will only be extended and more patients will seek forced services in self-paid clinics. The bill is based on unequal treatment of Slovenian private doctors and dentists to public institutions, discrimination against young doctors and dentists, and restrictions on the work of employed physicians and dentists are clearly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the European legal order. So the government is systematically ignoring European legal truth. The expert association states that by limiting competition between treatment providers, the proposal also raises questions about the unhindered exercise of the constitutional right of protected persons to health care and public funds. The Association of Experts opposes the prioritisation of the right of public institutions to carry out health services. I have listed only a few of their comments, but otherwise we have received these suggestions and comments from all the Members here in the National Assembly. Next, if I'm going. Fides hopes that the draft amendments to the law will not be adopted and that some other government, of course, will be taking action to amend this law, which will have a vision. They also protested in the Medical Society, where they warn that the profession is unheard of. I have only mentioned a few comments which the profession draws attention to. There's still a lot of these comments. If I touch the content of the law itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we claim that the law, nicely said, is stupid and is certainly not suitable for further consideration. I'll give you two plastic cases, why I think so. See, the bill did not lay down any conditions regarding the premises and equipment in which health activities will be carried out. Article 26 of this Act, however, sets out in detail what must be written on the table where the medical activity is carried out. Thus, the law laid down in detail how the building should be marked, but it did not say anything about the building itself and the equipment of the premises. And another case. Our young doctors will not be able to open private clinics five years after obtaining the license following this proposal. Of course, in Slovenia, young doctors from other European countries will be able to establish private ambulance services in accordance with the principle of free movement. I think that this is undoubtedly an excess of the stupidity of these Ministry of Health experts who have been preparing this proposal. I think it's hard to make that up and think. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health Act. However, we will, of course, require a public debate in the course of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Tomaž Gantar is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye to everyone again! We have long expected the amendment to the Health Action Act, which is essential to ensure a better and more effective healthcare organisation in order to restore our health care from the grayness of the European average, and in particular to enable the gradual elimination of the accumulated problems in the public health system. Unfortunately, the new ZZZD does not rescue them, and this is why we have not accompanied the adoption of the law in the government with such enthusiasm as the Minister herself. Even though we will not oppose the law, at least we have more concerns about some of the solutions. It is true that coordination has been long, hard and that at least some points have been heard. However, it is not a good trip to the proposal that it was, in particular, exclusive and without an argumented debate for the professional public, which would at least lead to the convergence of views between the ministry and the professional public. It is certainly not an encouraging response from young doctors who believe that the bill is based on concepts that are contrary to modern health trends. The logical question is whether this means a forecast of further departure for the public system of urgently needed young doctors abroad. We are concerned about their opinion that rural patients will be in an unequal position with those from larger centres, and we can only hope that they are wrong about this. We note that the Ministry of Health has chosen, as its objective and priority, areas that are not essential for tackling the accumulated problems in the public system. We would be pleased if today, after more than two years and after an analysis by experts from the World Health Organisation, we could consider a comprehensive new proposal from the Health Act and not just some amendments and additions to the existing law, while the key areas remain unchanged for the time being. Of course, we can agree that it is reasonable to regulate the award of concessions and welcome the regulation of advertising in the field of health. Monitoring the work of health workers itself is also useful to upgrade with the possibility of systematic supervision, but the proposal itself does not solve the problem of ineffective control. Unfortunately, in this part too, the bill is too ambitious. Even more problems in this bill are the exchange between public and private health, which still does not follow all the objectives of the coalition contract and the regulation of the work of doctors outside public health institutions. We also committed ourselves in the coalition contract to ensuring an equal position between public and private health operators. In view of the boisterous response from the medical species, we fear that by adopting the proposed solutions in the novel, we are primarily opening up new possibilities for legal disputes and exacerbation, which will certainly not be of benefit to patients. In doing so, we believe that the Ministry of Health has ensured that the law is not contrary to European Community law. It is also serious to note that, despite the emphasis on public health care, some solutions can be misleading the very foundations of the system, which I believe none of us want. It is the responsibility of the Minister and the competent Ministry of Health to provide the proposed and perhaps insufficient solution and to insist on them. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Health Act does not constitute the necessary reform changes, but it removes some inconsistencies in the existing regime. We can be satisfied with the proposal that eliminates injustices at the expense of dividing work between middle- and graduate nurses. For too long after the adoption of the flawed Law on the Pay of Public Servants, those experienced midwives who were competent in the workplaces of qualified nurses were severely deprived. This is also one of the more important reasons why the proposal for the amendment of the Health Act in the first reading will be largely supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. All of you, once again, have a nice hello! The expectations of the Social Democrats regarding this law have been known to the general public for some time. We have written in our programming documents that we want a clear distinction between public and private implementation of health activities, but until this can be achieved, we want to stop the issue of concessions and the transfer of concessions from natural persons to legal persons or parts. Thus, at our request in the coalition agreement, we have written down that we will prepare a new Health Action Act, because, inter alia, we want to distinguish publicly from private health activities, set clear criteria for the public health sector network and regulate the area of award of concessions in a way that we will only award them on the basis of a fixed-term tender where public health institutions cannot provide the intended scope of services. It should be pointed out that today's proposal only partially follows a coalition agreement, since our commitment was to prepare a new Health Action Act, not just amendments and additions, that changes to the law would be based on an assessment of the situation and the public health service network. This proposal only touches on the areas of awarding concessions and, for us, on the arrangements for the status of nurses. Allow me, however, to touch upon the award of concessions in our presentation. In awarding concessions, all of us find that it is unplanned, on the basis of desire, but not on the basis of health needs and demographic changes of the population. It has also been possible to transfer concessions from natural persons to legal persons so far, and this is a phenomenon where concessions have been granted to individual doctors for an indefinite period or for a period of time when they can carry out this activity independently. Now, some concessionaires want to transfer concessions to legal persons, the so-called parts that they have set up themselves. Such an indefinite concession is virtually impossible after the current law and, together with the company, it can be sold, inherited, beyond all possible criteria. This is unacceptable in our view. The new Health Act, which is now in first reading, has been in public debate for a long time, where everyone has had the opportunity to comment. Much of the law is so technical in nature and talks about procedures, but substantive changes are not so much. As I mentioned, the area of healthcare concessions is currently poorly regulated, leading to different practices in the award of concessions. The current system allows for significant corruption risks, as there are no criteria, when and under what conditions a concession can be granted, so it is possible to get the impression that concessions are granted on the basis of friendly and other connections and not the actual needs of an increasingly ageing population. This should no longer be possible after the adoption of this law. What will this be like, the practice will show itself. Why is that? Because we still don't have a public health service network. However, the bill does not in any way put concessionaires in a worse position than public health institutions, but rather puts all potential concessionaires in the same position as to be able to obtain concessions, nor will those with better connections. Nor does the new law abolish existing concessions, at least overnight, bring new financial obligations. In practice, from the Health Insurance Office, we can pay as much services as we have available financial resources and under the same conditions, both public institutions and concessionaires receive money. Concessionaires will therefore not be placed in any worse position than public health institutions by means of a bill, as they will continue to carry out health activities under the same conditions. Both will also be financed under the same conditions as before. The only thing proposed by law is that concessions will be awarded according to the needs of the health needs of the population offered by the existing network of operators for a certain period of time, on the basis of tenders, to all under the same conditions. The novelty that we are considering today therefore brings the following solutions: a single regulation of the authorisations for the exercise of health care activities, a legal void established in the current law, because there are no specific conditions for the procedure for granting authorisations for the exercise of health activities; an arrangement of the institution responsible for carrying out health activities and its full-time or short-term employment; but we would like to point out that, in the following legislative procedure, we will seek solutions towards the elimination of any negative consequences for concessionaires operating services in the public health network; a regulation of the legal basis for carrying out health activities for public welfare institutions and public education institutions; an arrangement of concessions for the conduct of health activities; and the implementation of Directives relating to the work of health workers outside health institutions; an advertising of health activities; supervision of healthcare providers and of healthcare professionals and workers; and the implementation of Directives. We will explain more about this at this point and we will discuss concrete solutions in the debate. We must also stress that the novelty in the transitional and final provisions finally brings solutions to the status of nurses, which is very important for our Group of Members and was also one of the key moments in providing our support for this law. Therefore, the novelty is a step in the right direction, but, as we see, despite the long-term harmonisation, we will try to improve the law in view of the considerable number of comments that it will be able to implement in practice. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Luka Mesec and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, Minister with the team and others present! Speaking of health legislation, first of all let me say that this is more than €3 billion per year, which is around a third of the state budget. Of this, around 2 billion public expenditure, private insurance companies collect almost half a billion euros of this cake, while the other over 400 million pay health care residents directly from the pocket when they do not have an additional health insurance, and they need health care when they buy medicines in pharmacies and this is not covered by compulsory health insurance or when they are treated with private health care providers in self-paid clinics. What a huge amount of money represents almost a billion euros each year for health, which is not covered by public health resources, from the pockets of citizens for market health and private insurance companies, which are also profitable companies, we usually do not know how to imagine. It is not surprising, therefore, that many people may turn from appetites to these means. Similarly there are appetites for public health funds from the Treasury Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Therefore, some forget the basic objective of the health system, which is to maintain and maintain human health, not even at the expense of human health. You can forget about ethics and morality. Given the amount of money flowing in health care, it is no wonder that representatives of various private interests, the Medical Chamber, private doctors, even the lawyer Pirnat and even the American Chamber of Health in Slovenia are filling us with mail, calls and proposals in the direction of commercialisation and privatisation of the health system. In newspapers, however, cheerleading articles appear in the same direction, and in the interest of private interest is sought again and, as usual, before the public, before the interests of patients. Under the Health Act, public interest in the private sector is severely affected. The public interest in health, as understood by the developed countries, is therefore in the maintenance and maintenance of human health. In ensuring this, however, there is an important role to play in ensuring the fairness of financing the health system, universal access to the health of people with the necessary health services, the quality and effectiveness of the health system, the elimination of unfair differences in human health, the response of health to the legitimate expectations of people and what else could be said. All of this should be taken care of by the State, and this has not been too successful in providing for the needs of people in the past. However, the private interest of individual health stakeholders is usually shown in the interest of higher earnings, unfortunately also often at the expense of human health. The country has not adequately protected the interests of patients or the public interest for the past 20 years, but if we start market reform in 1991 and continue the story to the law that we are considering today. In the hope that there will be a number of necessary amendments to the bill, I will not oppose the law at this first reading. For a limited period of time, I will only draw attention to the most controversial provisions of this bill. First time. In spite of the promise to demarcate the implementation of public health activities in the introductory part of the Act, the draft law of this objective has unfortunately not been fulfilled. This did not take into account the Commission's warnings to prevent corruption about the existence of conflicts of interest due to the simultaneous exercise of work in and outside the public service, which increases corruption risks. Nor was there any respect for the promise in the Coalition Treaty that the delimitation of activities would take place. Since the promise has not been made, the public health system will continue to be exposed to the risk of corruption, the loss of financial resources, the deterioration of the efficiency of the health system and the consequent increase in inequalities in human health without appropriate amendments to the law. According to the bill, doctors who are public servants and also individuals with concessions who perform public health services are still allowed to sit in two chairs. This is at the same time working in the public health system and in private, self-paying outpatients, which are profitable companies. Thus, so-called adjuvantry is possible, with all the problems that such regulation brings. Doctors should decide whether they will be public servants or individuals with a concession to perform a public service or whether they should carry out a medical activity as a purely private health activity. There are also long 15-year concessions with a possibility of extension for 15 years, which is practically life-saving. This would prevent young doctors from working in public health homes and hospitals. We know that by 2022, as many as 35% of new doctors were expected to enter the healthcare system. Life concessions, as they are today, are of course not in the public interest. This law would continue to decommission public health institutions by transferring programmes and financial resources from public health institutions to private institutions by concession. They operate in profitable companies. For example, a health care professional decides to take private action, cancel work at a healthcare home and the state grants him a concession. In doing so, he may be granted the program and the financial resources he takes from the health care center even to the one from which the newly baked concessionaire comes. There's no restriction in marriage. For many years now, the country has consistently helped to break down health homes and hospitals. However, the health system could be regulated by genuinely complementing public health activities rather than destroying an unprofitable public health system, health homes, and hospitals. This, however, insists on a system that acts as a struggle for survival between public institutions and concessionaires in which individuals win. But most of all, we lose patients. Further, let me say that, by the new definition referred to in Article 6 of the proposal, the healthcare home will not carry out all the health activities it has carried out so far. So he'll be robbed again of lab services and other diagnostics. This has been happening to us for many years. Instead of strengthening health homes and hospitals, legislation only adapts to increasingly poor health care homes or services provided in health homes. This is, of course, contrary to the Minister's promises to strengthen health homes and hospitals. Furthermore, the bill does not offer a solution for the time being for inadequate professional supervision exercised by the Medical Chamber with public money. It is necessary to withdraw the powers of professional supervision from the Chamber and to transfer the supervision to an independent agency which will be able to effectively supervise health service providers. The Medical Chamber is established to protect the interests of doctors. It is clear that it is in conflict of interest and therefore cannot exercise adequate professional supervision in order to be in the interest of patients. Let me mention here the dangerous expansion of the network of health institutions, which is to be decided every time by the Minister. This may disrupt the public health system. This is about expanding the network of health activities with hybrids, which is through social and education institutions, not to mention counselling centres, which everyone is supposed to be able to carry out a wide range of health activities in the new way. According to the law, some institutions that are not health-care providers at all could carry out all activities carried out by healthcare homes, as well as all specialised outpatient activities. Except for homes for the elderly, in the law of the institutions mentioned, they do not have legal restrictions on the types of basic health and specialist activities that they can carry out after a new one for their guardians. The most open doors are the counselling centres, which are expected to be able to carry out all basic health care activities and all outpatient specialist activities according to the new population. The laxity of the legal provisions by which the State introduces hybrid health institutions is disputed as it may have long-term effects on patient safety, on the dispersion of public funds and may result in a financial deterioration of current public health institutions. We are therefore getting a new network of health homes in the form of counselling centres, so I wonder who is in the interest of creating a parallel network of health homes, hybrids and thereby further weakening healthcare homes financially, as they are already breathing on the gills. Important, if not nearly the only greater achievement of this bill, is – apart from the regulation of the status of nurses, as we have already heard today – the recognition of public health activities as non-economic activities of general interest, which are carried out in an unprofitable manner. The public health and health sector is united that the health sector needs to be regulated in an unprofitable manner and that is why most developed countries have withdrawn health services that are important for human health. I would like the Ministry to be able to act in the interests of patients, unfortunately not at the moment, and in the next parliamentary procedure, the provisions of the law, which I have also pointed out in today's debate, will be amended in terms of the health needs of patients; therefore, in public but not in private interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u35	The word is given by Luka Mesec, to be prepared by Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Our health care, you might say, is sick for three chronic diseases. The first is a lack of funds; the second is an untransparent system of concessions, which is turned upside down; instead of a public health institution giving a call where there is a need, we have a system whereby a private person who wants to obtain a concession is abusive; and the third is a so-called system of amphibians, in which doctors are literally encouraged to work in the public sector in the afternoon in private clinics. The consequences of these three chronic diseases or the most visible consequence are waiting periods. And the waiting days are those that, because of the failed government policies, all these three chronic diseases that I've listed are still getting worse. In fact, since we have waiting periods, patients, at least those who can afford it, are encouraged to use private health care instead of putting themselves in line in the public system. That means next. The funds that should be allocated to public health are being drained into private health care. On the other hand, public health is losing doctors because business opportunities are created in the private sector, thus weakening public institutions and strengthening private ones. If we want to stop this trend, because this trend is a trend of slow privatisation of health care and the simultaneous breakdown of the public system, we need to do two. The first is to stop the flow of funds and personnel from the public to the private system. And secondly, the trend is to bring the right resources and personnel back to the public system in the medium term, so that we can realize what is ultimately enshrined in our constitution, that all the people will receive the health care they need in a timely manner. Otherwise, we will receive with honor something they have in the United States; so that the rich can afford a doctor, but of course at a high price. The poor, who cannot afford it, depend on a very weak and poorly functioning public system, because they are the best doctors, the most resources and the best technology, but they are accumulated in the private system. It's because of the logic that happened to us. The Health Act gives us a lot of opportunities to start fixing these things. We could immediately begin to eliminate the appearance of doctors of amphibians, but the law, unfortunately, does not follow. In fact, instead of separating public health care from private health, the government is now proposing that a doctor work with a private person for 8 hours a week because he is 20% of his work obligation. By this, excuse me, directly encourages doctors to do less in the public system and to earn more in private. Secondly, we should introduce a moratorium on new concessions and eliminate any existing concessions that have been awarded by way of public tenders or by means of malicious public tenders, as described earlier. Let me just remind you of last year's case. Last August, for example, dentists at the Ljubljana Health Institute collectively decided that they would like to become concessionaires. They wanted the municipality to simply sign their concessions and give them a health home to rent their current offices. Although this initiative has failed because of public resistance to happiness, this law, which we have before us, does not completely protect against such abuses. And the third opportunity missed is resources that are a little wider. And now I'm going to start with a simpler initiative. Indeed, we do not see any logic in the United Left in that at these points I described, Fides and the Medical Chamber, which, of course, are professional organizations of doctors and not other employees in the healthcare system. So, nurses and the rest of them are being expelled from these organizations. It's just the top layer, the topmost caste of doctors, who sees opportunities for additional profits in the collapse of the public system and the strengthening of the private system, but wants policies like I described them. My question for the Ministry is why we should not take up these interests with this law and why we should not immediately start eliminating the systems of amphibians and unjustified concessions. The coalition currently has an absolute majority in this National Assembly. I have heard the debates of both the Social Democrats and Desus, who are also speaking in this direction, as I am currently defending it, and if we do so, I promise you here that you will also receive the support of the United Left for this law. Thus, we want stronger protections against the system of amphibians and against concessions in the public system. The other thing I'd like to open here is health care. In fact, we can bring funds into the health system through two channels. One is that we need to increase our revenue and in a fair way, the revenue into the budget, but unfortunately Cerara's government has done the opposite so far. With changes in the income scale to the benefit of 10% of the top-income population, it has reduced the budget revenue by €80 million annually, and the Ministry of Finance is even making this argument against the fact that these 10% privileged after the end of supplementary insurance would pay a higher health benefit. But the fact that they have received additional funds at the expense of the budget should be an additional argument as to why they need to contribute more wealth to the public health treasury. The other thing I'd like to draw a little more attention to is the priorities of this government. So something can also be brought into health care through what we are committed to other sectors. This is where I'm going to put my defense first. Why would I expose her? See, in Slovenia we currently have about 6.7% of the gross domestic product intended for health care. We all want to have as quality health care as they have, say, in neighbouring Austria, but few say that in Austria they spend significantly more money on health care, namely 8% of their gross domestic product, while, of course, their gross domestic product is significantly higher. So, in our case, the basic health problem is that health care is undernourished and, of course, this ruling coalition, which, after all, has written down in its coalition contract that health is one of the priorities. But the problem is what he's really doing. In fact, it does not increase health resources, but it does not have any problems with increasing resources for defence. See, on December 22nd last year, the Government quietly agreed to increase its military spending by €20-30 million per year. Before the days of 11 May this year, the government again passed a public debate on the decision, which now appears to increase these funds by at least 30 million per year. Then, suddenly, she received 24 million euros this year to buy patriots, and this year. Major General Osterman says we'd need an extra 1.2 billion investments to equip NATO battalion teams. And the government does not oppose this, and on the other hand, there is no funding for health care and they are stagnant. On the other hand, we see that expenditure on the military, for example, will increase from 0.9 GDP to 1.2 GDP in short terms, i.e. from 400 million to 560 million. Let me give you a comparison. The Ministry of Health and Finance is planning to provide health care with some services, such as specialization of doctors after a new rather than from health bills from the budget. We have asked the question of where to get these additional funds, but there is no answer. The budget of the Ministry of Health is currently around EUR 100 million if we are to achieve what the Ministry of Health promises, up to EUR 240 million should be provided in the next three years. There is no answer, but on the other hand, there is a very clear answer as to how and until when the defence funds will increase. In short, our appeal to the coalition goes slightly beyond this law, but it is connected to it, is simple: stop spending on NATO and defence and start investing in what is truly in the interest of all citizens and citizens, and it is timely and quality healthcare. If we want to follow the modern development of medicine and if we want to provide our citizens with health care, which can follow what we see in neighbouring countries, we will need to reach 8%, at least 8%, from 6.7% of the GDP we are currently making for health care. Therefore, tax exemptions will have to be stopped for the wealthy and it will therefore be necessary to clearly outline priorities; not to strengthen repressive appliances, not to spend money on NATO escapades abroad, but to invest in health. Another matter that we can start now. Let us start by bringing funds and personnel from private health care, which has now begun to grow at the edge of our public health system. This is the only way to ensure long-term stability and fair health care for all citizens and citizens. In this marriage, we have two opportunities to start doing this immediately. The first is that we seriously limit the medical hygienists, and the second, we come to clean, finally, once again, with medical concessions. These are our calls. As my colleague Miha said at the outset, we will abstain from this reading because of the lack of voting law, but we promise to bring in amendments in the second reading, which will go against the objectives I describe. If our amendments are adopted, we are also prepared to support the law in the end. Here again, above all, SMC I am saying that I have heard at least two parties sitting here with us who spoke discussing in a direction similar to that of myself – your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Mr Jani Möderndorfer should be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome. We all want good health, but above all we want to be happy patients and all those who work in health care. What's the patient's interest? The patient is interested in whether it will come soon, whether the service will be well performed, whether the diagnosis will be well diagnosed, or whether it will be able to be treated as soon as possible, or whether he will not have to go too far into some treatment and so on. It's all about the patient, whether the doctors, the staff will be friendly to him, so whether he'll be satisfied. Well, good health puts the patient in the center. What are we listening to here all the time? I understand Luka Mesca and the United Left because they declare themselves socialists, but I cannot believe that a minister from a party belonging to European liberals advocates a complete socialist system. If we are talking about public health, we know that individuals with concessions are part of public health, but this is simply not about having good health care, which is at the heart of the patient, but about fighting between state and private. The only point of this marriage is, unfortunately. If they were smart, they would even want to have as many private people as possible and that the state has a government office where activities are not covered by private ones, because the private person has to maintain the premises himself, he has to buy the material himself and it is in his interest to obtain it at the most favourable price, by quality, which does not happen in public institutions, so we have veins and expensive operating tables and I don't know what else to do because some others are getting revenge on it. It's not said if it's a very expensive operating table, it's good. So, some private person who doesn't have a license is going to get patients in the market. He won't be able to go to those patients who can't afford it because he won't have a concession. This private person will strive to have good equipment, to work quality, to work effectively. Unfortunately, we don't keep track of this in government agencies many times. Those who pay for the losses of hospitals — taxpayers! Why are there long waiting periods — since the Department of Health Insurance no longer approves interventions! Where health abuses have occurred — in public, state institutions! When we talk about how to give more money and not do something to rationalize it, we're going to throw money away, so to speak. And when we talk about how to take all the concessions back into state institutions, now imagine that some entrepreneur – I know that you are also unpopular to entrepreneurs, because they are enemies of the state, even though they create jobs and pay taxes – so if an entrepreneur, some family company will acquire machines, build halls, hire people, and then the heir, son or daughter will not be allowed to continue his work – why would he do that? Then he has to sell it or whatever. Family companies are the most successful companies, and you say, let's give the concession for 15 years, if it's not good, take it away and put it all back in the state office. Why, then, would he procure expensive appliances if he did not know whether he would continue to be able to provide these services? So, it's simply not about being satisfied patients and also staff working with them, but it's about simply supporting health care, where there's a lot of money going around and where appetites are big. Unfortunately, I have to find out. How we talk about doctors. When we need them, we are very grateful if they help us when we talk about them, how they deserve them, but we are very rude. I have the opportunity to monitor myself how much time, how much effort, how much knowledge a doctor must have, and I am very pleased that I never told my daughter to go to medical school because she decided to do so because I know how much effort is needed. This profession goes to people with the best grades in high schools, so they're smart, if I say so, capable people, they have to put a lot of effort into it, and in the end we make fun of them and we should work for free. I don't have a problem with amphibians, but in state institutions we set clear rules – this and you have to do it in this and this time, and then even if you work somewhere else, it doesn't bother me, because I don't mind if people deserve to work. But it bothers me very much if people deserve it, but they didn't work for it, but for other reasons, they got their money. So, these young doctors who are going to specialize, in addition to a regular study of six years of traineeships, specializations, then they should not be carriers of health care, as the Young Doctors write to us. And when we walk through the field, we also visit different hospitals, nursing homes and so on, and what we hear – how the doctors outside the centres are burdened, how they have no children's doctors, how they do not have children's doctors, how we do not remember, we have recently spoken, the most with children of the gifted congregation, Gorenja Vas, Jiri and those ends, even the child's doctor, they had to go to Škofja Loko. [[…]] So, they can't wait, even municipalities are funding such specialties to get these doctors, and now they're not supposed to be operators. Somewhere where there's only one doctor like that, he won't even be allowed to work there. Where's he going? He's going back to the larger centers, which means that once again this activity is not going to be possible, people are going to have to go to the bigger place, to the hospital, and so on. And that increases our costs again. It's no wonder the best doctors will slowly walk abroad. That's what we know. When I talk to them – I talked to a doctor, a recognised heart specialist, a surgeon, and he says: “When my work is done in the middle of the surgery, a new team comes in, replaces me, I can go home. In our country they never know how and what.” With bad wages! It's no wonder that hospital relationships are so broken. It is not surprising that any such demanding work also requires a decent payment. Of course, it is necessary to control, and for that I am that for what he is in charge, do your job, and then nothing bothers me if he goes elsewhere. Well, the best experts will leave. Then what? We import others from other countries, where sometimes the quality of their education is questionable, and I often do not underestimate anyone's knowledge of the language. Thank God we got them if we need them, but that's what's happening to us. We educate, we have quality educational institutions, and then they leave nicely, not only because of their guilt or because they are earners, but because we don't give them decent conditions here. As I said at the outset, I am very surprised that SMC has such socialism — a liberal right - hand party — and a socialist law that will harm everyone, both patients and health care professionals working there, as well as the state treasury. If all who will have to implement this law are dissatisfied with this law, how will they be satisfied in their job? Then how will patients be satisfied? They won't! That is why, Madam Minister, as well as the others, I do not think this law is suitable for further consideration. I even talked to people who were preparing the previous marriage so many years ago, and they said that this marriage was going back even further. That the law was written as a transitional law from the time of socialism, this law goes back to the old days. That is why I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President. I don't know where I've been listening to any more nonsense, either to my predecessor or to the debaters or to the positions themselves. In fact, such generalization, such underestimation of the system, health care, doctors, and then we throw it all in one big pot, we pour it in with water, and it doesn't even arise, because it becomes inconvenient if you understand what you've done with your discussions and discussions, for one simple reason, because you're manipulating it. That's all you do all the time, but it's kind of allowed in politics, because we've been doing this all along. Everybody. Today we have a general debate with one simple purpose, as it was called upon by the opposition party, otherwise today we would have a committee and on the committee we would also have a legislative and legal service which would already have an opinion. This is how we do not have it today, and we can just think about it and talk about how everything is in conflict with the legal order and what I know about everything else; in short, we are traveling to the void. Now I'm going to go to the facts. Whoever you are, let's go from the beginning. [[…]] This law has nothing to do with reform, we said. So I listened to a few individuals at the beginning. If that's true, why so many storms? Why so many storms on all sides if it doesn't have any effect? In fact, it's nothing special. We're actually just going back a little bit, a few steps into pure socialism. By the way, my predecessor still doesn't realize that SMC isn't a liberal client of the right sex. But okay, that's just her problem, which she's used politically here again for some of her own needs in its implementation. By the way, I'll give you a case. The most common critics who criticised the Health Act are, however, Konrad Kuštrin, a representative of Fides – we know what it is, a union. [[…]] Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, Medical Chamber of Slovenia – we know what it represents. Helena Mole, president of the Committee for Private Physicians at the Health Chamber of Slovenia – we also know where it belongs. Marjan Catšek, President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We've heard before that health is an economic system. Okay. That's probably why he got in here, and so, I'll say, he's become a big critic. Only Hribar Milič – I prefer not to comment on him at all. Slovenian Medical Society – also clear what interests they advocate. Association of private doctors and dentists of Slovenia – we know who they represent. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia as a whole. Is that legitimate? Of course it is! Absolutely. Just one little abuse. Which of these people represents patients? Which one of these is it? Just tell me! Nobody! They represent and, according to their documents, they have to represent the interests of their membership and do not paint me here in the National Assembly and tell me how professional it says that the Health Act is not good. I find one other interesting in the whole story. When the left-hand man speaks, when the left-hand man speaks that the law is wrong, and when the right-hand man speaks that the law is wrong, I become more and more calm. But let's go to what I always say should be taken into account. For a year and a half, I have heard that there will be no misunderstandings, a good doctor, an expert in my field, a top-notch, Mr Gregorič, Dr. Gregorič, who is a Slovenian doctor in Texas. In the last year and a half he has become a top specialist in the health system in the Slovenian space and teaches from A to Z each in order of what should actually be done in the Slovenian space. And what does he say? Concessions need to be lifted! Right now, because that's the most ridiculous thing I've ever done. Is that what you're saying legitimately? Sure, why not? Because he has never personally experienced them, but, of course, as a top doctor who does his job very well and has excellent results, an explanation in another system, with some other concept, what should actually happen here; and then the system will become better. And he works in a system where 30 million U.S. citizens don't have access to the health system! And that's what someone tells me who has a president of the state who's tearing down Obamacare's health system and telling us to introduce as soon as possible something that works well in America. And let's put it here! Sorry, for this logic and for this idea I am not able to support and therefore, sorry, one Dr. Gregorič will not be a consultant on what will actually happen in the Slovenian space. I'm afraid not. As far as the health system's concerned, no. What matters in the matter is, of course, the following. A number of accusations, what has not actually happened and should have happened, have been mentioned, for example, by the SDS representative in her views, and today I also see in the debaters – at least twice, three times – how doctors will no longer be able to perform after the completion of the study and the specialization of their work in health institutions. Finally, we received a letter from the Young Doctors saying that the Health Act made this work impossible for them. I'm sorry, that's not true! Whether we can read the law or know it, we do not understand it, or we deliberately deceive it — as always, as we do sympathetically. By the way, only one contribution, I had previously forgotten to say, also the so-called American Chamber, which operates in Slovenia, AmCham, is incredibly showing its health system and what changes should be and this should be systematically planned in order to change something into pure privatisation. Is privatisation bad? No, no, no. Why, not at all! But then the whole concept has to change. And we must first ask ourselves if people really are for the whole concept of change. I personally do not, because these concepts of privatisation suggest that there will be even less accessibility than we have today in the Slovenian space. That's why it's extremely dangerous for me, and that's why, of course, right-wing people everywhere in the world, of course, defend privacy, privacy, privacy. Health care has suddenly become an economic activity and this serious economic activity, where there must be severe competition, so that, of course, after the so-called golden word, the patient would have to decide where his money was going. That's the primary logic. On the other hand, you know, it means something very important. If we're going to privatize the health system completely, why would the state still invest in hospitals, health homes? Why? No! No! One penny of money in the health department, let the insurance pay, let everyone else fund themselves. But no, we have another mentality in the Slovenian space. Let the state pay for everything that's expensive. Anything that can be made and, of course, you're just going in as a private man, and, of course, I'm going to put it on some sort of table. To be clear: no public health system can survive without the help of individuals. None. He can't and can't stand it in the world. That is why we have a system built and conceived on the basis that we have a network where concessionaires, of course, operate; and therefore we cannot stop them. Yeah, well, there's a problem somewhere else. Doctors imagine something else for concession, as of course the law speaks and, of course, the basis and purpose of why concessions were introduced. Concession is a complementary programme where the public sector cannot really carry out all its tasks. And, of course, that's why we need concessionaires. The doctor imagines a different concession. He imagines that this is his permission and access to the financing of his health services. But that's all he sees, but he can't see the bigger picture, and that's the key problem. This creates a conflict of two different interests, which, of course, also means concepts, and that is why it is not the case when Dr. Gregorič says the following thing and says: Cancel the concessions, make the call and public health treasury pay to all who meet the conditions that doctors are, that they are specialists and compete with their practice, who will do how much, and then let the insurance company tell who is good, who is not, who provides the services and so on and competition will do and clean up their market. This is a change in the concept of the system. For changing the concept of the system, forgive me, of course this coalition does not stand. Therefore, all your complaints and interpretations, and not last but repeatedly manipulation and deception, of course without this, have made the opposite point. Now I go back to this explanation: Young doctors will not have access or will not be able to work and will not simply come to work because this current law makes this impossible for them. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have a problem, and I ask doctors and representatives many times, who in the past have advocated that specialisations should first be transferred to the Medical Chamber and later that it has been drastically extended. But where do we have a problem? A doctor or a medical student finishes a medical school, and ends it just like everyone else who works in the education system, with the difference that a medical student or a medical graduate is not actually able to do any work anywhere after graduation because he needs specialization. We've made this terribly complicated, not even the most basic simple reality can work. And that's why we have a problem! I think that here the Medical Chamber within its profession should radically change and what steps to correct, which have complicated it to the point of disability. Then they made it so long that we had a specialty. Today we have six years of specialization, one of the longest. This is completely absurd, even the working conditions that we require, including for a doctor, is 5 years shorter than specialization. I think that after at least two or three years of specialization, the doctor should be qualified for certain tasks, if he insists on six years, and only after six years can he perform a specialty. Many would have solved the problem because in this way they would have gotten a doctor earlier in terms of some kind of drive within the healthcare system. Then, of course, there's a problem when he says, yeah, but now I'm gonna have to work for five more years. Where's he gonna work? Some have understood that they can only work in public institutions, some understand that they can't work anywhere or work with a private person or a concessionaire, which of course they don't. He can work anywhere. A young doctor can work anywhere when he finishes specialization, but he cannot be a health care provider, which does not mean that he cannot provide health services. This is a drastic difference, which means that he can work and can work and no one is limiting him anywhere. [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not true, it's been said twice today. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, it's an activity. What does activity mean? In the healthcare home, I will give a concrete example, but now I will be very precise, which means that this doctor cannot open an espa or part of it after completion, definitely not because he needs practice first in order to be able to work at all. That's the difference. That doesn't mean he can't work. Of course he can work! But what do you want today? Do you want a doctor to examine or process a patient on his own when he finishes his specialty, which opens the epis and starts doing what he does at the time of specialization? Well, that makes his marriage impossible, which, of course, makes sense. But let the expert discuss it. Let the profession talk. And the profession also said she needed work experience. Pika! And this is where we can end. The next thing I think is very important is, of course, this economic activity, the non-economic activity that we would like to talk about. One of the issues that we have also discussed for some time within the coalition and discussed how to deal with this issue is, of course, whether we will appoint an economic activity of health care. Why do protagonists want this to be called an economic activity? In fact, the European Union has never, anywhere, written down and commanded that health activity is an economic activity. Nowhere! Of course, it would be those who would do the private part, and I will say that they have another concept, that I will be more clear, of course how they want to become a health activity economic activity. Because of this logic, of course, a number of things go away, as far as concessions are concerned. The next issue, which is very important, is that we have long said in our country that – and this is also clearly mentioned in Article 3, but no directive is mentioned anywhere, as some have explained today – “medical activity as a public health service is carried out under the same conditions by public health establishments, other operators referred to in Article 8 of this Act on the basis of a public health service decision and other legal and natural persons on the basis of a concession. The public health service is carried out as a non-economic activity of general interest in an unprofitable manner.” Yeah, look, here's the difference. We all agree that in health care is an unprofitable way, but some think that if it becomes an economic activity, it will become logic in the head overnight, that it is a profitable way. Even health insurance companies must not generate profits! Well, yeah! We have a serious problem here, and this is set in the European Union, but some would like to turn it upside down in the Slovenian space. Therefore, this debate today, apart from negotiating and discussing concepts, will not bring me any further than that, of course, it is necessary to make a decision on the concept. I think the concept has been defined, I am sure that the concept is and of course this is one of the laws that also entails a reform change in the process of thinking and looking at the individual steps that we will have within the health system. The fact that everyone has a common language that the patient – and I agree with what Lady respectable colleague Ludmila Novak said at the outset – does not really care about who will treat him, but is particularly interested in treating him, so that he can quickly, effectively and qualitatively reach the service, and ultimately, most importantly, that he will trust this health system. Today, however, I had the first hour of talking about no one anymore trusts this health system and that we produce practically the worst frame in this karsed country. One thing just doesn't go together. I understand the political struggle, I understand the belief in concepts, but I don't understand that we're willing to go so far as to water the manure ourselves. I just don't believe it. It will be necessary to endure, to endure and, of course, to believe. But there's gonna be a lot of hot blood and words, which, of course, doesn't bother me personally. Far from it. I also respect all those who are different in mind and are confident of their right. I appreciate that, I respect that, but please have an argument. To deceive and not to generalize. This is most crucial in the whole matter, for at the end of the day the patient will not read this law when he goes to the doctor, but will only be interested in the service and that he will trust and believe what we are doing today. Thank God, I am glad that I can still read the articles and, finally, the responses that we have doctors who are also performing top-notch interventions in our country. One thing is fighting -- we have good doctors, we have good people, everybody's doing good, but we have a shitty country, and we have no hospitals, no health homes. It doesn't work together, it just doesn't work. But we will always have excesses, even when we have the best health system, after one concept or another, there will always be excesses. But don't generalize excesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u42	I'll replicate first. I never claimed you were right-wing liberals. I never used that term. Liberals, a liberal party – liberal parties are considered to be a free economic initiative. In Novi Slovenija we are liberal according to the economic programme and conservative according to values. In your debate, you have now come under so much pressure that it was really a salad. Who said doctors were bad? I even said doctors are very good, and we treat them badly. You messed with the doctors so pof-pof, you clapped them. What the young doctors wrote is of no value. What the Medical Board wrote is a bluff. What Mr Milic wrote is of no value. You are the only one who enlightens this Parliament and Slovenia and you know everything. At the same time, you said so much nonsense and the opposite. But there you were talking about this article of yours, which is now a happy one, and you have not told all the truth, perhaps Mr Horvat will tell you something else, because this article has also read it. In short, you've been talking about the length of specialization, but at the same time you're arguing that he has to do this activity for five years before he can become independent. This is again a big contrast – it takes a long time and it still can’t. And what does that mean? That he will not be able to work in a distant place where there are no three doctors of specialists, but he will be able to go back to a larger place where there are more of them and where he will be able to carry out his activities. That's it. You're right, we need to change the concept, and that's what we expect. What this bill is, however, is not a change of concept, but just a step back.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I hope it's not a procedural abuse. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u44	Your Honor, the vice president, because you're meant to be, as a matter of procedure, not a colleague. You should take action. Tell me, under which Article of the Rules of Procedure this debate was under way, given that I was not mentioned anywhere, that I was misunderstood, but that there was a controversy with me. You didn't intervene, you didn't stop her, so please don't tell me to abuse her, but now you answer me: By what article of the Rules of Procedure did you not react because you gave her the opportunity to do the replica and to argue with me that I did not have a chance to argue with her in the procedure? This is unfair and unfair. So please, Vice President, you now answer me: On what grounds have you not reacted? The article in the Rules of Procedure is clear: “The replica to the debate is in the part where the Member has to say, to whom and to what he replicates and where he was misunderstood.” I didn't see it today in this replica, but it was pure abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u45	If we were to stick as strictly as you relate to this misunderstanding, then the replicas were practically not in the National Assembly for three years. Here's the procedure, Mr. Jani. Do you also have a procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u46	Yeah. Right away in the first sentence, I told you where I was misunderstood. When I claimed you were liberals and not right-wing liberals. My whole debate was about what you said or replicated in fact to my debate, and that was why the replica was justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u47	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u48	Then you answered me. I will, of course, explain through procedural procedure how my colleague actually discussed it. First time [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u49	What's the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u50	I'll tell you what, he's got three minutes, Vice President, because otherwise there won't be a conversation, because then we wouldn't be able to talk, so you said so yourself, so now I'm using it. First time. At the ALDE in Europe in the Association of Liberal Parties we have both left and far right options, everything is mixed in, all are liberal. I have heard very clearly in your debate, you are a liberal party to the right. That's what you said. Go take a look at the magnetogram. Yeah, right here with you, so I'm sorry. Or you don't know what you're talking about, but that's your problem. Another time. In my deliberations, I am also referring to the discussions of others, in which I see nothing wrong. We are in Parliament to Parliament and to essentially mention concepts, differences and, therefore, I have also debated you. I don't know what's wrong here. If this can no longer be done in the National Assembly, then let's shut ourselves down in our rooms and send out emails and end up here with a screen to make and hook up and see what comes out of it. But you see, the architect predicted that we were at the round table talking. It's like a third. Don't think about it. I'm sorry, there's a lot of systemic nonsense in our health system, because there's one legislative framework that's been put in place, and then the matter has been upgraded, and everyone's been interpreting and looking for holes in the law how it's going to work. Today, after 25 years, we have a system that shows that it works, but a lot of things don't work because someone is being abused – and now I'm going to be very direct – and I'm not slapping doctors, but I've made it clear that they're defending their interests first and then everyone else. The same applies to the Chamber, the Economy, the Chamber of Commerce and everyone else. I'm not doing anything smart. I'm responding to what they say they're talking about as an expert on behalf of those who are sick. That could be me, too. That is why today, as a representative of the people, I answer, which I do not agree with, and let people stop painting. That's the difference that we're just not going to put together on the same denominator, I'm sorry. You've got me all wrong here. My proposal, Vice-President, is that you also respect the Rules of Procedure and, in the sense that a replica is used, of course, if it is not used for the right purpose, regardless of how you have made your explanation, warn the debater and stop him and warn him of where he was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get Mr. Miha Kordish ready. Here you go, Mrs. Bachich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone! Today we hear a lot of different opinions. That is also the case, and I hope that we will eventually draw the best of this debate. Let me begin by writing in the coalition agreement that we will draw up a new law on health activities in this mandate, where we will, inter alia, separate public from private health activities, set clear criteria for the establishment of a public health service network and regulate the area of award of concessions that will be awarded on the basis of calls and, of course, where public institutions are not able to provide the scope of services. We agree, I hope, everyone. However, as far as I am aware of the award of concessions in the last 10 years in our area, I can say that they are being implemented as necessary through public tendering and for a certain period of time. So it's the right thing to do. It may have been different or different at secondary level, but I can also say that doctors have warned me that quite a few of the employed doctors who are in the hospital today have returned the concession. Why? They were aware that they had to invest in their activities financial resources for premises, equipment and to carry out their health activities. So they have to invest a lot of money. True, the difference is where concessionaires work or work, whether in a large town or in a rural area that is difficult to access, where there is no doctor where there is no infrastructure, and we know what these concessioneers are doing there. So I'm not entirely sure that in our health care everything is so very wrong because of the concessionaires. I think we can be happy that we actually have them, because they are as professional, working and having a relationship with patients, which we can see by their headship, because they have a lot more than they can have. There's been a lot of things going on in the past. And I agree that order must be made in this area. However, first of all we would need a public health service network at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. We haven't had that since 1992. We must not forget that concessionaires are part of the public health network and without them there would be more waiting and waiting periods would be extended. Do we all know that? That's why I don't think we can and can't put everyone in the same basket, both those who do good and those who don't. According to the information I have, concessionaires should have much more control than, for example, operators in public health institutions. We have already said this today that they do not, but are more closely watched by various inspectors, labour, health and health insurance. Many concessionaires called me and said that they bought spaces and equipment for their activities, which we know is not cheap. They took a 25-year loan. Of course, so far they've been quiet, working professionally, uninterruptedly, because they had a 30-year concession. Now that we change concessions to 15 years, concern, fear, and unrest are among them. Can we imagine what kind of stress they're under? It is true that a concession can be obtained for an additional 15 years. What if I don't? You never know. And why this legitimate fear – because we still do not have a public health service network, which we have repeatedly stressed by the Social Democrats. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, whether we are all aware together as a society of the possible consequences of this measure, that the award of concessions should be limited to 15 years, while some concessionaires are in charge for 25 years. The opinion is that the concessionaires are well placed, but no one wonders that they will do more than 20 to 30 000 euros a year than they will get paid, because they have fulfilled the plan prescribed by the health insurance company or the government and have already achieved it, but cannot reject those patients who come to them. So they're not earners, they're not looking at money, they're doing their best, in line with Hippocrates' oath to provide for the patient. There's another thing. In the family of a dentist with a concession, a son of a dentist was trained to inherit his father's infirmary. How's that? If there is an invitation to tender and several candidates apply for it, it is questionable whether this son will be elected. Do we have a policy of private practice for the development of concessionaires? We introduce a lot of non-life conditions, and sometimes we say that we also need to work on a healthy farm. Your Honor! I would like to point out that until recently, we have had very quality and affordable public health care for all, especially in primary terms, as this is how consultants from us also write about us. But I cannot agree with the fact that everything in health care is so very wrong. Wrong is where relationships are broken, where doctors don't talk to each other and don't participate in the team. The organisation of work is also lame, but it is therefore not the concessions or the period of award of concessions. In all this, I wonder what we know is wrong, where is Hippocrates' oath, where is the human and human approach, where is the patient? All of this cannot be written in marriage, it must be in people, especially health personnel. We could still talk. Here they must make their own public administrations and take more care of their own education and so on. It is necessary to have people, i.e. directors who will be the right ones, who will be able to motivate people and who will, in fact, be the ones who will support doctors when they need them. We know they're in a lot of trouble. When we put the basic mission of health care at the forefront, it's ethics, morality, and it's going to be a patient first, it's going to change a lot, I'm sure, in our health care. Let's not forget that tomorrow we can be patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor to prepare Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Before I move on to the key proposals we have for reforming the socialist health system, let me respond to the references of the right hand about Venezuela, which point to right-wing limitations, lack of visibility and their links with the Americans. To begin with, one of the right-wing Members raised a rhetorical question whether we really want a Venezuelan health system. And I'm going to tell you this about the Venezuelan health system. In the 40 years leading up to the Bolivarian Revolution, 5,000 ambulances were placed, and in the 16 years of the Bolivarian Revolution an additional 9,000 health clinics were set up, including with the help of brotherly Cuban doctors. This system worked very well, the age of the population increased, the mortality among newborns fell and so on, but until two, three years ago the right opposition began to head the chaviste on the streets and set fire to health clinics. She did all this, and she's still doing it backed up by American finance. Right now, at the table of the US Senate, there is a proposal for an additional EUR 20 million to be earmarked by the United States for opposition ferocity on the streets of Venezuela. It's about the classic sponsoring of a rainbow coup. Under this proposal, both the Democrat and the Republican are signed – Marco Rubio is a Republican and Ben Cardin is a Democrat. Well, and this proposal is there on the table, even though it's a week ago, it's May 18th, the right opposition burned down the Venezuelan maternity ward just because it's public and because it's a symbol of chavism. The Slovenian Hand does not hope to do this on the streets, so it would burn public health by law. Here, too, the Americans are involved through their American Chamber of Commerce, via AmCham, which also financed that famous Secretary's study. What is more worrying, however, is that the government and the coalition are, in fact, following the American example of providing additional funds for the acquisition of American old iron and, on the other hand, reducing this share of funds for public good. Thus, the government recently spent an additional 24 million euros outside the National Assembly to purchase falsified Patries. And there's something else about international comparisons. The United States gives 17.1% of its gross social product to health, Slovenia spends 9.2% of GDP, in the United States, life expectancy is shorter, infant mortality is four times higher than in Slovenia, and 40 million people are without health insurance. This is a medical vision offered by Nova Slovenija, SDS, Fides, Medical Chamber and the American Chamber of Commerce – AmCham. Is this really the health we want? My response as a socialist is absolutely and unconditionally not. On the other hand, we have, say, a Cuban health system that recently invented a cure for lung cancer. The U.S. model is primarily a political right in our midst with this medical and insurance lobby, because I don't know, they obviously want people to die outside the hospital door in the same way that those without medical insurance in America die. In practice, however, the government also agrees with this trend because it does not want to cut it. And this Health Activity Act does not abolish unjustifiable concessions that consume the Slovenian public health system, and we demand moratoriums for these concessions in the United Left. If concessions were part of the solution, then the dental situation would be at least half perfect, because in the dental sector we have more than half of the doctors who work with concessionaires, if I don't even count pure privateists. But the reality is that the situation in dental care is at least semi-catastrophic. The longest waiting periods are there, the most is self-payment, the availability of health services is on the dog. And if concessions were really the solution of the health system, then in the most licensed sectors, waiting periods would be the shortest, but unfortunately the opposite is the case. In the United Left we demand a moratorium on new concessions. Then there is the afternoon work of doctors in private, these are so-called doctors of amphibians. This Health Act legalises the existing situation by giving physicians 8 hours a week of private work. This directly encourages doctors to work in a small and poor public system so that they can earn more as individuals. And it can only have one extract, only one result, it's an extension of the waiting period. These two, we think, should address the Health Act, short-term restrictions on the granting of concessions and the prevention of the afternoon work of doctors in private, the delimitation of public and private. Since the Health Act, the government law, does not allow this, we will not support it, but we will not oppose it, because we will improve it with the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mrs Erika Dekleva as well. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! I would now like to return to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. But only Slovenia is my favorite country and it is my country. Since Slovenians have tremendous potential, I would like to see all these potentials actually developed for the sake of themselves and, of course, for the well-being of a wider society. I often wonder what we really need to do in this country to make it better, because we have, I stress, we have potential. And here is the response of Christian Democrats: the country must, by its legislation, allow each individual in this country to develop their intellectual and other entrepreneurial potentials, if you want, for the benefit of the whole society. Why would they educate me, then put him in a cage, and write him a strict instruction on how he should act? Ladies and gentlemen, Jani Möderndorfer has somehow described in some negative light organisations that oppose or disagree with this bill. We know that this law is opposed by the Coordination of Medical Organisations, whose members are the Medical Chamber of Slovenia – made up of doctors, the Slovenian Medical Society – made up of doctors, FIDES – made up of doctors and doctors, the Professional Association of Private Doctors and Dentists of Slovenia – made up of doctors and doctors, they also expressed support for the opinion of the Slovenian Young Doctors – they are also represented by doctors and doctors. And colleague Möderndorfer said, yes, but these associations, of course, only represent their own interests. Who else is on the patient's side? It was understood that only SMC and the minister. Yes, please, please, but if I stress that doctors and doctors here in these associations, or not, have already taken a solemn oath with the text of Hippocrates' oath to begin their medical service or medical mission. Every doctor said: “I solemnly promise to put my life in the service of humanity.” And now we're just messing with these societies, and they're not for patients. They all took Hippocrates' oath. Here I'm really sorry that this house, the temple of democracy I hear, is so stepmotherly treated by doctors and doctors. We like to operate with numbers, but our health system is good right now. We have great doctors, great nurses, problem are relationships, problem is regulation, problem is legislation, problem is system. The OECD warns us, however, turn off this socialist model of your health system after 25 years. Ladies and gentlemen, is it normal that today or more precisely on Day 1. 4. 2017 38 000 762 patients are waiting for some interventions or examinations, that is only 16.45% of all waiting patients, so there are 235 thousand waiting patients. I make a rough round, a quarter of a million waiting. All right, critical is the number that waits above the limit. This has increased and increased in this mandate. Madam Minister, I ask you, for information, because you have them, surely you have them, you can get them, the Member cannot. How many people, how many doctors have left this mandate and broken up their working relationships and gone abroad? Believe me, young doctors will also go abroad, as they warn us in their two letters and oppose the adoption of the proposed law. Why are we talking to young people? Because they're going out. They're going out. We educated them, they'll go out. They're calling attention to the centralization of health care. As someone who comes from the extreme eastern region, I sign this warning twice or a hundred times. Everything in this country is centralized. And we're not citizens on the edge? Another time. They oppose discrimination against young specialists by taking away the burden of health care. They also see as controversial the restriction on the granting of concessions in a way that virtually prevents them. Today, Madam Minister, we have fantastic examples of good practice in this country. I am really asking you to look at the newly built, recently opened private hospital in Otoc, with the latest equipment, with operating tables that are not yet in Europe. Is this gentleman, this investor, going to get a concession or not? Will it be or will it not be, or is it acceptable or not? I have already spoken twice about the case of a doctor in the municipality of Tišina, a public-private partnership, 660,000 euro of his own money invested and 180,000 municipalities. Ruševina, a castle was essentially rebuilt by a cultural minister to congratulate him, and today he is doing medical work there. Is he getting a concession? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u57	Gradually, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Given that we have been talking for quite some time, I think two and a half hours, I would ask the Ministry, the President, if you could ask them to speak, however. All the debaters are now engaged in, deal with at least so far, whether concessions will be abolished or not, whether it is transparency with this law in granting concessions or not, whether patients will be better off or not. The Minister constantly writes something, underlines, consults, I would ask her to answer, because the next discussions, if they go in the same direction, then are pointless, because the ministry has an hour to go, so far they have not heard from one another. And since the four are sitting there, so the Minister and the three advisers, please clarify the basic concepts that have now been raised by both the coalition and the opposition, and explain the things that have been most exposed, namely concessions, young doctors, the participation of the Medical Chamber in the drafting of the law, whether the Medical Chamber participated, how it participated, whose comments were taken into account during the public debate, so that perhaps the next discussers do not raise these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary heard you, of course, didn't she? Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I'll be glad to hear from you. Otherwise, I must conclude that the Health Act has already been written and coordinated in past governments, how very difficult it is to get support from both policies and other stakeholders, shows the result itself. Indeed, no government has been able to do so far, nor has any minister or minister been able to do so. And although it is a systemic law that should have priority in some reform, it has not changed seriously since independence, despite the fact that we all speak together and write about how very poorly certain areas in the law have been regulated. Let us see that we will not just be talking about foreign matters, but what are the goals of the law that is before us today. One of the objectives is to maintain and strengthen a public health system. Health services must not be marketable goods, so there is a public and non-profit activity at the forefront and, of course, a private one can or even must complement it. The granting of concessions in a transparent manner and on the basis of the needs identified, this is what is enshrined in the law and ensuring the quality and expertise of healthcare activities. Which of these objectives is at issue? Of course, many comments have come to the bill and many have also been taken into account, not because we need to follow our vision and, above all, the coalition agreement, in which we have stated that we promise to correct the existing health system in the light of the strengthening of public health and a clearer separation of public and private activities. So we're just doing what we predicted and what we promised. Of course, I understand many objections to this law and the general opposition to all changes in health care. However, the fact that it is necessary to make a decision is to draw a line and, in fact, to do something not to leave everything on purpose and desire. I also read the Court of Auditors audit report on the award of concessions for the period 2000 to 2006. At that time, the Court of Auditors delivered a negative opinion to the Ministry of Health, finding that it did not define the relevant standards, personnel, equipment and material, that it did not produce and prescribe criteria and guidelines for the establishment of a network of public health activities at primary level, in order not to ensure the implementation of all the forms of control provided by the Health Act, so as not to specify in more detail the course of the issue of consent or the disagreement with regard to the award of the concession and much more. In short, it did not provide adequate grounds and established appropriate processes to ensure the functioning of the system of awarding concessions in basic health activities. Let me point out once again, all these findings related to the period 2000-2006. At the start of our government in 2014, the situation was still so, it was not saved. So much for the complexity of this problem and so much for the success or failure of the Minister of Health's work, which has succeeded in bringing the amendments to the national constituency. Of course, this period involved many different governments, including the government of Janez Janša. At the time of their government, the most courageously exploited this loose legislation was their Minister, Mr Bručan, and he suddenly signed 50 new concession contracts in a so-called night action. Of course, this is not a lonely case. I only mentioned this because I wanted to show how many governments and how many ministers have been stumbled by this health legislation for such or other reasons. That's why all the criticisms coming from the right side are the least ridiculous. Rather than constructively dealing with amendments, they deal with their many recommendations, which are even unconstitutional, socially destructive and focused exclusively on their own promotion. Most importantly, because of such past policies and today's opposition approach to problems, no one will live better, and at least patients. Let us focus on the current proposal, which, after long and difficult coordination, we have only received on the table. The main solutions to the proposal before us today are the uniform arrangements for authorisations to carry out health activities, the regulation of legal grounds for carrying out health activities for public welfare institutions and public educational institutions, the arrangements for concessions for the provision of health services, the addition of the arrangements for the work of healthcare professionals outside health institutions, the advertising of health activities and the supervision of healthcare providers and healthcare professionals and employees. The law thus primarily lays down the conditions for granting authorisations for the exercise of a healthcare activity, uniform for all health care providers, irrespective of their status. This eliminates the subordination and weakness of the current regime and removes the legal void in the area of the granting of authorisations to carry out health activities. By laying down the conditions and procedures for the authorisation and the precise conditions for the withdrawal of licences, all operators will be treated equally for the first time. Now I'm going to focus on concessions because they kept lifting, and still, so much dust. The law currently in force regulates this area. We've heard that a number of times. As a result, there are more questions in this area than answers. Above all, there are many unanimity practices. The award of concessions was unsupervised and untransparent. All of this has led to a mix of public and private activities and interests, mainly to the detriment of public health activities. The proposed solution to the amendment of the law states that concessions shall be granted only if the public health service does not ensure the exercise of health activities to the extent determined by the public health service network or if the public health service cannot ensure the necessary accessibility of health services. Concessions will thus be distributed on the basis of the needs expressed, thereby ensuring sufficient accessibility of health services. The concession will be awarded on the basis of a call for tender and the mutual relationship will be governed by a concession contract. However, the condition for the conclusion of this contract will be the prior conclusion of a contract between the concessionaire and the public health institution. There are also specific cases where the concession contract and the conditions for withdrawal are terminated. Concessions will be granted for a certain period of fifteen years and will be extended for a further fifteen years if necessary. Thus, the bill follows the objectives of strengthening public health. A system shall be established to allow for the award of concessions in a transparent manner and strategic planning shall also be required at both primary and secondary levels. Of course, it is also very important that supervision is not defined by the current law, despite the fact that internal professional supervision is prescribed as mandatory. All of this is more than left to individual healthcare providers, and the fundamental purpose of monitoring is difficult to achieve due to inadequate and inadequate regulation. The proposed solution therefore now regulates the area in an integrated manner. The Ministry followed the opinion of the Court of Auditors in regulating this content and identified both inspection bodies and possible statements of measures in the draft law. The Carrier Inspection Authority is the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. I will not touch all the content that the law changes or regulates, but I would nevertheless like to say that the list of stakeholders who have forwarded their responses is very long. Of course, all of them were somehow united in their view that reform of health legislation was necessary, but sometimes they had a diametric opposite view of what this reform should look like and what it should be like. Since opinions differ so much and are as contradictory as they can be seen today in the National Assembly, all these opinions cannot be taken into account in the preparation of the proposal that we are considering. Of course, it is possible to follow the Resolution on the National Health Plan from 2016 to 2025 “Common for the Society of Health”, which we adopted in this National Assembly. It states that concessions have complemented the activities of health institutions, and I think that we will certainly improve them further by adopting an amendment. But of course, we stand in different positions from the beginning, and I think that the coalition is united and has also written this in a coalition contract, what is our view of the adoption of health legislation? We follow this despite the fact that, of course, you have different views and desires, but this together simply cannot be reconciled and reached with such compromises as to bring diametrically different views into one marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go, Mrs. Skopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The law currently in force was passed in 1992, which undoubtedly suggests that it is time for the law to be amended and modernised. The fact is that the Health Act has not yet been implemented by any government, which suggests that there are enormously many different views and more different interests in this area. Different views on the country's health system are completely legitimate, reflecting the different views we have. In this way, the left policy options advocate a public health system based on solidarity and as much accessibility as possible for all health services, and the right policy options and the Medical Chamber advocate the organisation of the free market, which means the abolition of concessions. And who are the concessionaires? These are doctors who are part of a public health network, which means that their services to patients are free of charge or that they are compensated for by a medical cash register for their doctors. Then we have private doctors in whom patients have to pay every check. If I simplify, the medical organisation – and this also advocates the right policy option – wants the patient to have the option to choose any doctor himself and the service would be a settlement from health insurance that each individual should conclude with a selected health insurance company. If the law had drawn up the right political option when it was in power, the law would certainly have gone in a completely different direction. And they didn't do that when they had the chance. The law has not been amended and modernised. The political option in power today, however, advocates public health. In this light is also the proposed amendment to the law that we are considering today. And so conflicting today are their opinions on the appropriateness of the solutions that the novelty brings. However, I can probably point out at least one area governed by the amendment of the law, where we probably all agree that it is necessary to regulate it, as this area is not regulated by law today. We are talking about the implementation of health-care activities by social welfare institutions, such as nursing homes, special welfare institutions, social welfare institutions for training, welfare centres for home care and work centres, so say the centres where rehabilitation is carried out after brain injuries. All these establishments are currently carrying out a medical activity without authorisation, as well as without a health concession or other legal act which would legally allow them to carry out health activities in the public health service network. This area is governed by the amendment of the law. The amendment also specifies the conditions for obtaining the concession. A legal obligation is laid down to grant the concession on the basis of a tender signed in accordance with the concession act. The conditions to be met by the concessionaire in order to compete on the file will be so publicly published and known in advance. In this way, a number of interested parties will be able to apply for individual concessions, which is certainly a step forward towards transparency and the equalisation of all interested parties in the process of obtaining or applying for concessions. The conditions for the conclusion of the concession contract will be the prior conclusion of a contract between the concessionaire and the public health authority on the scope and types of cooperation for the purposes of the implementation of continuous healthcare and a contract on the insurance of liability for doctors in accordance with the law governing the medical service. The concession contract will also set out cases where the concession contract and the conditions for withdrawal of concessions are terminated. I believe that this will make it much better to obtain or grant concessions than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We still haven't heard from the Minister yet, except for that opening statement. Madam Minister, I hope that you will continue to comment on all these statements, followed by the coalition and the opposition, in view of the fact that you are constantly writing and underlining with markers, and you are probably waiting for your position, as usual, to be able to read it. The coalition disagrees. I don't know where you get the idea that the coalition agrees. The coalition agreed in a coalition contract signed today, as we heard from Desus, by the SD, to completely different interpretations or discussions indicating that they agree that concessionaires are as important as they are. In his position, Mr Gantar said quite a few things that he disagreed with, but, of course, they will support the law in the first reading. And I'm concerned that what you're saying is that it's public health, that you're looking for public health, that you're full of the mouth of public health, that this law is a completely political law and absolutely nothing else, because you need medical reform under the emergency, and whether or not the waiting period will be extended, whether the concessionaires will be worse, whether the public health homes will be worse, or whether the hospitals will be worse, or whether the young doctors, the old doctors, regardless of whether or not the patients will be worse. And you keep saying you're up for public health, second for concessionaires. Who's up for patients? Are you in favour of patients? I haven't heard that from the coalition today. That's all we're asking for is public health. But it would be good if you could tell us what the concept of what's underneath it is. What is public health for you? We can't hear this, we're just "for public health." It's nice for people, yeah, they imagine a public health home, a hospital and so on, but you don't say that, of course, concessionaires are part of it. It's also public health. I'd rather say that public health is that doctor or that health-care activity that spends public money, whether it's in a healthcare home or it's a private person, who spends public money, taxpayers' money. And once again, this law is, in my opinion, a completely pure political law and a compromise to go forward with the health reform on the government, because Cerar is behind it, she stands for Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, and this needs to be done. And so far, not in debates or in public by the Minister, I have not heard how this will be better for the patients. If we look at the marriage, if we go along with the things that are at the beginning, let's say, the consequences that the adoption of the law will have. I don't know if you're aware of the consequences. First of all, there are no financial consequences. They're gone. Is the Ministry convinced and the coalition that there will be no financial consequences of this law? I don't know, Minister, then you'll probably answer that. Next case – Assessment of the consequences for the social sector. The law will have a positive impact on the quality and expertise of healthcare activities. What quality? How will you improve the quality of the health system in Slovenia by this law? Specifically. What kind of matter will it improve? Words, for public health only and to protect public health and improve the quality of public health – How? That's not evidence. Next issue – Access to health care will improve. How will you improve access to health services? So you'll tell the concessionaires, fifteen years, and then maybe another fifteen years. By giving young doctors five more years to work on their own so that they can open up their medical activities. Come on, Minister, please respond, write down how you'll improve your accessibility. Because eProcurement does not, because today I can tell you how your e-procurement is going. Control. Advanced surveillance. With what? Where? What article? Where do you provide better control? Because today we have heard that concessions have been granted in a non-transparent way in the past, and that it will now be transparent. I'll get to that, but if it was granted intransparency, if institutions in the Republic of Slovenia were to work to oversee the award of concessions, the implementation of concessions and so on, and not only concessionaires, but also public health homes, then it would not be necessary to do so today. That shouldn't be necessary. And where does this law now ensure that this law will now make the inspection work better? With what? What article? Where does it say that? Where does this say that these institutions will now work better for the new ones? Madam Secretary, do you take the floor? You put your hand in the fire so that from now on these concessions will be transparently distributed and control will be much better and those concessionaires who do not do well will be awarded the concession? Now I'm not just going to ask about concessionaires, I'm going to ask who's going to be doing surveillance in public health homes, whether the program is being implemented qualitatively, accessible and so on. Who's gonna do that? Will you also view public health homes and hospitals with the same magnifying glass as you will concessionaires? As far as the law is concerned. A working group was formed in the preparation of the law, with six of them — yes, six of them — all the ladies — from the ministries. It was said that they did not cooperate with external experts, but then with comments. And these ladies have been all the secretaries at the Ministry for a long time. One is a secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, whether she's still there, I don't know, because she also had some things that weren't very good-looking. She is also a secretary in the field of the Directorate of Health, then a secretary who warned Miklavčič when this law was adopted, including with regard to concessions, and that public participation should be made openly, so that civil society and the professional public should also be involved in this area. Today you had a working group formed in which there is not one of the external professional public. Not a single one! This is what people in the ministry have been preparing for years. Then we wonder why there are comments like this. Concessions will be distributed where the needs of the population are, because they have not so far. I would understand that these concessions that are now being abolished are because the patients are not satisfied, but the patients obviously are. Because if patients are not satisfied with the concessionaire, they go away, they go away from him, and they are gone. Dissatisfied with concessionaires, these are the current government and coalition, and this is essentially what this is about. You say you will do according to the needs of the population. Madam Minister, what are the needs of the population? Do you have a public network? You don't have one? Since you have in the resolution, in the plan until 2018, to make a network that will, of course, be flexible, this is normal, and then you will be able to know where those needs are for concessions. Do you have any doctors? Do we have enough personnel in Slovenia? Have you done a background check in Slovenia? Yes, by resolution, you mean him until 2022. After the resolution, you think the register of health workers available on the Ministry of Health website should be done by 2022. National plan of human resources in health care by 2021. Report on the introduction of incentives for work in areas less attractive to employment by 2021. Amendments to the planning, implementation and control of specialisations published on the website until 2021. Madam Minister, aren't these priorities? You talk about this all the time. And you're into concessions. Everything else you have until 2021, including the network until 2018. And now you're talking about transparency in awarding concessions and you're saying that you're going to grant concessions on the basis of the needs of the population. What if he reads the resolution? But if you don't have a network, if you don't know what the needs of the population are. By 2018, you will be doing this, and today you are talking about how you will grant concessions according to the needs of the population. You favor public health homes. The second is that concessionaires should also be required. Not one, not the other. The patient should be examined. Have you ever taken a look at a patient's case? How the patient sees this. I don't believe you, Minister. You're not from health. You're the mother of taxes, they say, and that also shows up now with a new marriage. Whatever we're talking about favouring one side or the other, it's wrong to look at it from the patient, the patient, the citizens who pay for it. Wouldn't you first focus on how much Aya will be, because that's how much you're going to have to pay now in this new health treasury, but what are we going to get for it now? [[…]] You'd better get on with it. Tell people you'll pay so much and you'll get this and that. And it doesn't matter if he goes to the concessionaire or goes to a public health center. It is important that he obtain quality and timely care. This is important for the patient and only this is what patients see. And like a coalition colleague said, because patients won't read this marriage, they'll feel it in the infirmary. There they will feel when they no longer wait for two and a half hours with a family doctor or any doctor, but they will be on their way when they are ordered. With this marriage there is no alternative because – what are you doing? Yeah, if you're looking at public health, you can look like an apple tree, where part of an apple rots. And what does a normal farmer do? The rotten apple gets out. What are you doing? And you take healthy apples out. But you leave the rot in there so everything else will rot. That's what you do with this law. Advantages should be given to those who are doing better, whether this, once again, is a concessionaire, a private person, anyone who allows a Slovenian patient to be provided with quality and timeliness. And these nonsensees that are written in here, Madam Minister, these nonsense will kill the patients. And the waiting periods will be even longer. And don't say that if you have a 15-year-old concessionaire and then you can extend it another 15 years, that this is now life, because it's not said that he's going to get that 15-year-old. Which concessionary, which private minister Madam Minister, would you like to invest in your company, say, five years before the end, by not knowing whether or not you will get a concession, in new devices, in personnel, in education, or would you do that? [[…]] I don't think that, at least when you're listening to people, and not just on the health side, but the others, I mean, who's going to invest five years before the end, if I don't know, or if the thing doesn't depreciate, doesn't even know if it's going to be here or not, and so on. It's such nonsense in this marriage, it's terrible. Of course, at this point it is not a private health issue, which the Minister knows well. He knows well because the number of concessionaires is falling. We had 18% of concessionaires, now 16%. After all, it has been said today that some have stopped working completely because their case has failed. So it's not a problem, this 16% will not endanger public health or health homes, it won't. It's the same thing as school. Private education, where 1% of private schools work entertainment to endanger other primary schools or public schools. The fact that doctors prefer to go to concessionaires is that, as far as I'm concerned, it's not true. Because in such a system or in a country where it is unclear how a private person can work next year or five years from now, no public health care doctor will go to the concessionaire because there is no social security like he has in public health or in a hospital. He's not going. But if he stays in a public hospital, he won't do anything anymore, because it's such a done thing to pay as much as the insurance company pays, he won't do anything anymore, he'll sit there for eight hours. But you could work with a private. And let him earn three, four wages, if he earns them honestly. If you provide patients for that salary they make, and so on. But not to serve in black, of course, but to serve with corruption. That's another thing. But if the doctor is still working with him, I don't know, eight hours, as you've just ordered him, he could also do more with the private, correct, transparent, so with all the timelines, I don't know what he has to do, confirm and so on. Why not? Let him work if it helps to keep waiting periods shorter, to ensure quality care for patients. Once again, I don't think there's a problem here with private health, there's a lot of other things. This centralisation and all that you are now putting under the word public health care has a very different purpose. Once again, I think this marriage is a pure political farce, or what I heard today by the coalition, the coalition is divided. Where you negotiated, you know that. The following laws also make it clear that the matter has been settled. As far as this law is concerned, it's a constitutional judgment. They have already said that they will give a constitutional assessment, and also Mr Pirnat has written you an opinion that it is contrary to the European Directive. Why is that? Yes, because of this loving statement in Article 3: “The public health service is carried out as a non-economic activity of general interest in an unprofitable manner.” Why did you write that in there? It is in order to avoid a European directive on the award of concessions. Since the European directive on companies is talking about granting concessions, you have done well to avoid this directive, because this directive tells you that it is necessary, because you will also do so, for the award of concessions, to publish a public tender. You wrote in article 44.b: “Concession is awarded in accordance with the concession act on the basis of a call for tender published on the concessional website and can also be awarded on the public procurement portal.” And don't joke, Madam Secretary, and that's transparency!? It only appears on the concessional website, but can it be on the portal? How much are concessions worth? The European acquis says that 750 000 euro concessions must be published on the European portal. And you only write on the concessional side. That's why you wrote it in. And that's not transparency. The transparency of the award of concessions would be if all these calls were published on the public portal. You can't hope for that! You can't hope for that! Minister, answer me: Why won't concessions be published on the public procurement portal? Why will concessions not be published on the European portal? Why only on the concessional side? Why did you avoid a European directive on the award of concessions? Also because the European Directive states in Article 43 that concessions may be transferred from one person to another or from one business entity to another in certain cases. And you wrote that you can't. However, it says here that in the event that the one who takes over the concession can meet all the conditions. Madam Minister, the question is quite concrete: Why will the tendering for concessions not be published on the public procurement portal? Why not on the European portal? How much are concessions worth? I have no idea now if I want to open concessions, I don't know, for orthodontist, dentistry, what's the value? Is it over 750 grand? Let's have a look at this because you wrote it in. And that's not transparency. One more time. Public procurement must be transparent. In this case, the award of concessions will not be transparent! You'll hide it. What will you grant concessions? Will you grant concessions only to those who have work licenses or to those who do not yet have them? Because you wrote a list of medical activities in your marriage, but you didn't write down what permits were needed. How will you grant concessions? You don't have a network, you won't put it transparently on the portals. Let me answer why he won't be on the portal. Where's the transparency? Where's the transparency? But I'm also asking for coalition. If it's only published on the client's website, who's here to protect himself now? Public health? Yes, of course, public health will now work because concessions, the question of how they will be allocated, again to those close to the candidate, the ministry or the municipality. And don't tell me now that everyone will see this and everyone will be able to apply equally. They won't! And the institutions will not review this either, because the concession will only be awarded to those who will be in the trough. In the Pharmacy Act you awarded concessions from 15 to 30 years. Why is it only here for 15 years? What's the difference? This is also a pure distinction. Pharmacy activity can be up to 30 years and only 15 years. In Article 14, in the second paragraph, you wrote: “Concessions will only be distributed where it is found that public health homes will not be able to provide the programme.” Now, how do you figure that out? What does that mean? This now means that the public health home has no programme at all or that the public health home is working on a programme but not quality. Where are those criteria now, when the ministry says yes, but here the public health home does not allow it and now we will be able to grant a concession. When? When there will be no programs in the public health care system or when he will work badly? Yeah, that's not clear from this law. This is not clear because everyone is talking about transparency, about control and quality, and then let us make this clear — when will this be done? As far as young doctors are concerned. When a colleague said that we don't separate between being able to do the job on our own or doing the work. Yeah, we're splitting up. That's what's so funny. These young doctors, as we have already found today, have studies for 6 years, then specializations are there from 4 to 6 years, I think it is at least three, and one is six years. Six and six is twelve. After taking this exam, he can carry out his own profession, but he must not have an activity, because he must be 5 years old for the activity. Why the extension? Madam Minister, did Mr. Keber advise you? Because Mr Keber was the one in the 1980s when it was a targeted education that brought down the idea that from 5 years old he would reduce his medical studies to 4 years and advocated a tendency for 6 years, and that's what happened. I don't know if he had anything to do with the extension of his specialty. Well, considering he's your advisor, he probably is. Why do you allow young doctors to work immediately? I mean, then why do we have this exam? If they can do the job alone, they can look at me in a healthcare home, there is no problem, the young doctor can examine me, the diagnosis sets me up, I don’t know what everything is, but his espionage or the activity of the concession can’t have a private office or office. Not that. Why are you doing this to them? I mean, why are you doing this to them, because I can tell you. Because now we have 70-year-old doctors who prevent young people from working. That's why. Yes, it is not funny, Madam Minister, because we have such a position of leadership and also in the ministry, if you want, not personally, but now that I am looking at you, see – Why don't we give young people a chance? For 70 years, 75 years, the doctor still scares the hospital and essentially takes the responsible part, for he can advise. Let the young people work! Why did you give them five more years? Then I'll give you a proposal, and you can reduce your study time, and you can lower your specializations, and then we'll be here somewhere if you want to give them this working time or your work experience. I don't know, Madam Minister, because in all the laws you've been drafting, I, when I look, didn't participate in the profession, if she was involved, you ignored her. At the previous Medical Chamber, Mr Možina was a problem because you once told me that Mr Možina does not represent all doctors. That's not true. When they adopted that resolution or something about quality health care. There was a problem, Mr. Možina, but what's the problem now? Now are the doctors a problem or what? Every day we can read online, on the portals all the doctors are already smart about the portal, how to do things, how to do things, how the profession does not know what to do, but what to do specifically, and the ministry with its head through the wall. [[…]] [[…]] You're doing North Korea from this country, the government is doing, and you're saying, "Mr. Kordish," and the moon is what you want, as well as the coalition, and you're doing North Korea in the field of health. The patients, Madam Minister, are now waiting four years for emergency checks. Yes, they do, Madam Minister, because you can't stand the pain for more than three days. eProcurement – this can also be discussed at the next point. But now I'm going to tell you what your e-Procurement is, personally. I got three e-mails today, these are e-mails. What's an e-mail? This. Paper form, but instead of green, I got white, there's no other difference, because here, like I got a certificate on an e-mail, where it says nice to call a doctor, let me order. You fools! Worse than Butale! I came to my sister and she gave me a certificate of e-mail, and I said, "Okay, great, fine, I'm hired?" "No, no, no, ma'am, this is not how it's gonna work now. Go online or call a doctor or go directly there and order.« That'll shorten the waiting hours? Of course she will, because no idiot will be able to sign up and order up anymore, because if she didn't ask her sister, she gave it to me, and I thought I was hired. No, I didn't! Then I went online to order. This is supposed to be an e-order. Then I went online and the app didn't work. I couldn't go in there, so I have a certificate. I'm calling a doctor. He's not picking up. But when I get him, I think my sister's crazy, she's gonna lose her mind because I'm probably going to be the 100th person calling today for this. But this will shorten waiting periods, of course, people think they're registered, people think they're hired. They're not! Instead of green, you got a white leaf. I still have to see a doctor to get this in my hands. I thought e-Procurement, Madam Minister, was an electronic case. You fucked the folk, as they say, literally. Well, I'm sorry, chairman, the expression. 'Cause this, Madam Secretary, is a lot of people making fun of you. Instead of working to prevent overpayment of material in hospitals; instead of working to provide young doctors with a job; instead of dealing with patients who request, they ask, if you want, now at the end of the day, for normal, quality treatment and immediate or normal time periods – waiting periods are understood as well, but not for four years – instead of doing so, Madam Minister, instead of listening to the investigator and those people, those doctors locked out, Madam Minister, you are working on how to destroy part of public health. That's what you do. And how people will pay more for nothing. Given the kind of counselors you have and how stubbornly you push your head through the wall, I'm afraid it doesn't help you completely, because patients eventually see these things and what you're doing today. With this law and the following laws, you will do nothing good and nothing better in the Slovenian health system. Start dealing with how much people will pay for the better service you have to provide with the laws, not the worse. Start paying for the material in hospitals, start dealing with old doctors not to go and scare there, but to have a young job, and for public money provide quality health care, whether it is in a public health care home, whether it is with the concessionaire or with a private person. You'd rather do this than deal with such nonsense and such untransparent concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u65	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word to prepare Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. After this performance, of course, it is a little harder to start with all that was already in the three hours of the debate, so let me start at the beginning somehow and then get to what was in the last part of the debate. Which, of course, is the awkwardness of our procedure, because the debate is such that you have to be patient and wait for the time to come and you cannot directly answer or argue, given the challenges posed during the debate. First and foremost, which I would like to stress, because the Constitution and non-constitution have also been mentioned, it is good that at least someone, and therefore I have decided to do it myself, as usual, to take a little look at what the Constitution provides for in its 51st Article. Of course, everyone has the right to health care, under the conditions laid down by law. The law lays down the rights to health care from public funds. So much for the basics, because at this point and today, we are dealing with the Health Act. So we're not going to mix it up, we're pretty much going to mix apples and pears, or we're going to make some yotta. For health care itself, what is basically the purpose and importance of the Health Act has been omitted in my intention. “Health activities include measures and activities carried out by medical doctors and medical technicians, workers and healthcare professionals, or co-workers, in the protection of health, prevention, detection and treatment of patients and injuries. This law governs the content and conduct of health activities, public health services and the integration of health organisations and health workers or workers into chambers and associations.” Be enough to set a framework that we do not change with the changes and additions proposed by the Government. And as far as that is concerned, let me immediately respond to the untruth that the financial consequences are not foreseen. If the proponents, or if the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party were to look at the material for today's meeting, would find this on page 14 under point 3 - An assessment of the financial implications of the Draft Law on the State Budget and other financial resources. It would, of course, find that it is envisaged that approximately EUR 360 000 will be required for the operation of the inspection and that a systemic approach to the award of concessions is foreseen at EUR 140 000, a total of EUR 500 000. However, we cannot assess it at this time, because, of course, it depends on what will still have to be done for information support, which we hope will also, in the light of what has been said, ultimately help to improve the functioning or even better functioning of e-procurement. So much for the introductory. Given that we do not know what a public network is, we also have an answer to this question. In fact, the public health service network at the primary level sets and provides a municipality or city, and, of course, depends on the need and the courage to establish such a system, so that we can offer what is in fact a fundamental objective, the purpose which is also set by the bill. Of course, there is quality health care and, of course, quality services are provided to patients. I can say that I agree in a special way with much that has been said so far in the debate. From what was the essence of the debate by New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, as of course I must also support my colleague Jani Möderndorfer, who is already engaged in this system of things. So it is always appropriate to listen to his words, in particular to the content of where he wishes to point us out when we try to direct the debate in such a way as to mislead and, above all, to destroy in some populist way the hard work that has been done to bring about the proposal of this law. Where I fear that in what I said, we mix apples and pears, that it is mainly that many do not separate what services are, what activity is, what network is, and they want to squeeze everything into one basket, so that life is easier for us. We are used in our lives to looking for simple descriptions of complicated institutions or questions that we are dealing with. So let me say that, as always, this time I thank the Minister with the team for going through all these efforts and for submitting amendments and additions to those who are focused on what is being achieved by this law. Of course, we will not solve the entire health problem today, nor will we solve the question of whether doctors respect and act in harmony with Hippocrates ’ oath. And, of course, I'll leave it here to people to assess for themselves, if someone was so kind, and I would give them this Hippocratic oath given to them by young doctors after they completed their studies to read to them what they wrote in it, to be in every waiting room, to read what it says and to be able to create their own picture. It is certainly important to stress that we want to make great progress in this area and that we trust, of course, in young people who have completed studies that they want and are waiting for the opportunity to go through post-study training, so that of course we can have the opportunity and opportunity to use all their accumulated knowledge then in practice to do what they have chosen to do in order to help people. And I believe deeply, and therefore I thank you, and I will not be able to stop thanking the Minister for going through this difficult calvary to come up with the proposal that we are considering today. And I believe, given that I know how she works, I believe that today, as before, many of the recommendations, questions or initiatives that have been expressed will, of course, also be taken into account in further work. Remember, we have not yet adopted the final text of the law. We are generally discussing, we are at the first reading of this law, which is why space and time are enough. The diametric opposite of the fact that concessions need to be abolished, to the fact that they need to be virtually released, and what is happening to them. I believe that it is already in the existing text, but if anything else is necessary, I believe that we will make further efforts to clear the system, that is to say, as far as the process of awarding concessions itself is concerned. Therefore, I do not consider it necessary to invest so much energy in proving that there may be any inconsistencies or that there is no better way to record and establish a system of awarding concessions. Here I will count the effort as well-intentioned, all with the aim of getting to what we are doing in our customer, in the Modern Centre Party, to get to the best possible solution. That's why I strongly refuse to say that we're dealing. It is simply a matter of busyness, hours and hours of effort, effort, time to get the best possible solution. True, but the truth of the matter can be said that because some would like to deal, the work is a little more difficult. If we look first – because I think no one has taken the lead in the debate so far – the main solutions. Uniform arrangements for authorisations to carry out health activities; arrangements for the legal basis for carrying out health activities for public welfare institutions and public educational institutions; arrangements for concessions for the provision of health services, not activities; addition of arrangements for the work of healthcare professionals outside public health institutions; advertising of health activities; supervision of healthcare providers, healthcare professionals and employees; and implementation of the Directive. I believe that the Minister has received sufficient additional challenges, questions to which she can either respond competently or take into account them in further work, in order to achieve the best possible solution for what we stand for in the Modern Centre Party – in order to ensure that the quality of healthcare services will be such as to achieve the purpose that we all have, that is, what I have said at the outset, what we also have in the constitution, that everyone can exercise their right to health care, clearly, under the conditions laid down by the law, and also that this is being achieved from public resources. It is clear that we must find the right measure, for with unlimited means and time it is clear that we can meet all the needs immediately and fully. As much as there is a limit on resources for the implementation of this activity and for the provision of these services, we need to be balanced so that the system can continue to operate in a sustainable and qualitative manner. I am very grateful to all those debaters who have pointed out to us in this debate that we must also find the right measure of access to the provision of services, or more broadly, first of all, to carry out activities. I think this is where the core of the misunderstanding, where there are those who talk about the provision of health services, that they have confused there, that these are conditions for the exercise of health care. I certainly don't understand those perceptions that have been expressed through the debate if we don't care about the public network. Hell, yeah. But at the beginning, if you remember, I warned you who is in charge, not only of the Ministry of Health, we are all in charge and, of course, shared responsibility is to establish a public network at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels first, to provide different types of services, depending on the needs of patients. And in this process, as has been said, congregations are also involved. Congregations also need to be concerned, which falls within their basic competence. This is why it is a collaborative process in which we are all involved. Of course, these funds need to be handled carefully. I fully agree and believe that if anything has not been done optimally with regard to the award of concessions, we can do so in the process. However, I certainly believe that the law is suitable for further consideration, but I did not say in any way that the door should be closed and that this proposal cannot be further improved, which, of course, we will be able to do in the further phase of the consideration of the law. Maybe if I add some experience from my life, at the time of the Minister's interpretation, I can say that again, I have both a private doctor and a personal dentist, both concessionaires. Once again, I am very pleased with their services. The question, of course, is whether they are the performers themselves, that is, my personal doctor and dentist, or whether they are satisfied with the conditions in which they work. But we will not be able to resolve this through the Health Act, which is the subject of the next stages, when we will also resolve these issues with other laws, because the Minister and the Government have addressed matters in a comprehensive manner and is about optimisation in the entire area of health. It is, of course, very good if, on individual issues, we focus on the issues that are the subject of the law before us, that we are not talking about the whole system and, of course, all the issues. And here, indeed, the Minister herself and the ministry, although the Government cannot do all the work, will, of course, have to make sure that all stakeholders will also be provided for those who, either in the public network or in private, carry out health activities in order to be able to work under such conditions in order to achieve a final objective that is not – as you have certainly tried to have an emotional impact on people in this work – in order for anyone to make profits on this basis, it is said that we are following the logic of a pure free economic initiative. We are in the field of health and, of course, we need to find the right measure. Secondly, the question is, of course, whether under the conditions, if we completely relax, liberalise the exercise of health activities and, of course, the provision of health services on the market, it is clear that health does not have any price, which, when we have talked a little about the United States today, I also know very well personally. A few people lost their homes, all their assets, because they had to go into surgery. That's not the system I want. Fortunately, we are living in a country where we have so far given enough attention to this issue of the social state and in the health field and, of course, given the equipment, I cannot agree that we could mentally disrupt such a system and say, we will see what happens. I have quite a few relatives who need health care, not to say daily, at least weekly, several times a year. I can say that they are satisfied, I can say that they use services both for those who carry out health activities in the public health network and for concessionaires. They combine several different performers from the same area. It is very important to me, as a liberal, that people have the same opportunities and, as we say, both – on the one hand, those who perform their services in the field of health care do the work, as on the other hand, of course those who are users of these services. Very important. I believe that this was also the intention of the Minister's personal efforts to prepare this and other health or health laws, if you will. I believe that this is about anomalies being made, and I believe that in order to eliminate clientelism, to eliminate those irregularities that everyone warns about when they do not speak publicly, and, of course, those that people do not hope to speak publicly, they are well-known. That is why, of course, I am deeply grateful for Mrs Ludmila Novak's debate. The situation in operators, in those working in the field of health activities within the institutions themselves, is often not good. When talking about top experts from the Republic of Slovenia, all those who have experience going abroad can say that every morning they discuss in detail every case that is special, where there are specialities, as a team. Of course, they discuss if something went wrong, so that others have the experience to learn from the experience of others, that they are all aware of what is happening in the department, such as Mrs Novak, not literally if I continue her thought, not hers, but on the basis of her thoughts, if I add my own thought that if a doctor comes to the exchange, he knows what is going on in the department for which he will be responsible to provide services on it. A huge, huge amount of work in the organisation of work itself, in improving the situation, we are not on pay, so I will leave this part aside, and, of course, as regards health care, it is essential that we forget everything else that we can say here in a populist way, to stick to the basic line, so to speak, to establish the conditions for the good functioning of healthcare in its entirety. For all the stakeholders I initially mentioned and, of course, for coordination, not in principle one at the expense of the other, but in order to get to the optimal system. That is why I believe that what we are focused on today and what is prepared here, which of course can be improved. And the Minister knows very well that now I will not say this publicly again, because I have already said that when it came from the other side. I hope he understands more today what I have said in good faith in the process of preparing this proposal, and I believe that we will be able to find, as always, a solution here as well, that we will come to an improvement and that we will address what might be wrong. I believe in cooperation, I have always had it and, of course, I call on everything, after good experiences, take time, the minister always has it, endless energy and is ready to work forever to the end to ensure that the best arguments finally win and that we reach the best solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u67	Procedural? Mrs. Godec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u68	Yes, thank you very much. I have two suggestions. The first proposal is for the Minister to finally speak. It is true that the Minister, after this speech that we have now heard, has nothing to say at all, because what has now been implemented, I do not know, was a great deal of self-pity, coalitions, ministers and so on, knowledge of the health system up to the last cell of the human body. That was really awesome. And, Mr President, I would like to ask you to invite my colleague, Mr Horvath, to explain to all Members, given that he has said that the Ministry is not only responsible for setting up the public network, but we all, I would really like to hear what this means to you, the President, to me, to my colleagues. How am I in charge of establishing a public network? That's my first suggestion. The other one. Although it has now been explained, of course, how the Ministry is open to all views, professional comments, the Minister is open to all of us. Well, yes, he answers questions from the Members, but as far as I know, he doesn't respond to other letters, and he also doesn't respond to cooperation with professional colleagues, medical services, doctors, after half a year, for three months. He has to answer questions from the Members. However, I would have called on Mrs Zorman before the end, because then Mr Zorman will be smart and tell again how good the Minister is, and then we do not need almost that hour at all, because then this hour will be thrown away now, because then we are waiting for others and waiting for us to be on the table, because the President of the National Assembly has done so that we never know when we will be in the turn of this meeting. I don't know why the government has an hour. Well, I understand now that you have Mr. Horvath and Mr. Zorman after that. So my procedural proposal is, Mr. Horvat, please, if you call him, tell me how I am in charge of knowing how to proceed further to establish [[…]] [[Laugh]] I mean, because that's really funny, I can't hold on anymore. How am I in charge of establishing a public network? And Madam Minister, please give me something to say today. Did you lose your voice? Come on, give yourself something, say that Mr. Zorman won't, because I'm gonna have to do it again – how much time do you have? 15 minutes – listen to the same thing. You'd better tell me, Mr. Zorman will then say something more concrete. Because it's worse, because then I'm gonna go out like this, and I'd rather listen somewhere else. [[…]] Please, first Mr. Horvath and then Mrs. Secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Godec, for this procedural. I think you both heard. Madam Minister will have the opportunity, as you have already mentioned, to respond after the end of the regular part of the debaters. Mr Horvath, if he wants to share time later or procedurally, however, I think you both have heard. Unfortunately, I cannot do more than that, except to give the floor to Mrs Brinovšek and, as you mentioned, to Mrs Brinovšek as well as to Mr Branko Zorman. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Sadly, when we discuss such a serious subject here in the National Assembly, the matter is so ridiculous after all. Yesterday we witnessed the fact that we had a special needs child's marriage point and there were no representatives of the Ministry, and there was no proposer at any other point. And today, even four Ministry officials are sitting here, but I don't know why. So we can watch them or what? I think at the end of the day, the minister will be 15 minutes, as colleague Jelka said, what she said or anything else, we will not be able to replicate her answer. In the debate itself, I must say that I have listened to everything carefully, the debate of many has shown that you have not seen or listened to us, what we have been saying, when you have criticized us, or in fact you do not know the whole thing at all, as Mr Horvat did when he spoke of this public network as it is, but who is in charge and so on. The fact is that the public network is not in Slovenia and the end. Not the prime minister, the secondary, and the insider. That's what I hope we've cleared up once and for all. It would be wise for you to remember in the coalition that there is no public network. I also listened carefully to the Minister's opening statement. Such flowers as you have spoken here, I mean, "but you believe." Look, in public, you said there were misleading signs coming from our side. I don't know which readings. We said: “The profession did not participate in the preparation of this law.” Who's the expert? Are your professional associates professional? I would indeed, Your Honor, ask you then to tell me what kind of professional education these coworkers have to prepare for this. We have also stressed in public that the law is in conflict with the EU directive. Tell me if we're right. And yet, we have repeatedly warned the public that there is a need for a public debate because your first proposal from 2015 included 13 articles and now there are 47. If you don't think it's necessary to have a public debate, then, good-bye, I'll say. You went on to say that this law would not depend on desire, but on necessity. Do you know how many needs are currently in Slovenia? As of 2016, 1 out of every 4 citizens has waited for a type or a health service. According to the data, I think we've had two sessions back, Dr. Marusic, I think now every fourth Slovenian is waiting for some intervention, inspection or service. These are needs, Minister. That's what needs are. And in conclusion, you said that the law offers solutions for our people. Solutions for our people – I'll give you that right, Minister, and that also shows that you're dividing people into ours and yours. It would be simple to say, solutions for all people or all citizens, but you said "our people". There are some flowers like that. When my colleague Jani said that we're smart for long and long, and that we're just doing some commercials and so on. But look, colleagues, when we warned you at one of the meetings of your mother's working body and warned you about the negative functioning of public health institutions, also colleagues Jani and Zorman said that only publicity and I don't know what else to do, but then the loss of public health institutions was just over 20 million, now it's 39 million. We didn't warn for nothing. I can't get past your explanation for this material. Please, Minister, tell me what you are writing on page 23: “The law will have a positive impact on the quality and expertise of healthcare activities.” Tell me, a positive impact on quality and expertise, what's in here that will have such an impact. And "accessibility to health services will improve". I wonder which article, where? I have to say, I've spent a lot of time going through, but unfortunately I didn't find it. One more time. Dear Minister, take your time, we've spent four hours here today, and you answer our questions in at least one hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u71	Mr. Branko Zorman, as the last in the regular work, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Now, of course, I'm not going to defend anyone as foretold, but let's look at the point. If we release this debate a little bit, it must be really bad for this minister, because whatever she does, she can't win. If she was a chicken carrying golden eggs, you'd say they weren't quite oval. So you have to make up your mind, because at the next point, you're also going to ask the secretary that she didn't fix something and that I don't know who she already is, and you don't know who she is, but she has to drop it. You're calling on her to prevent the corruption that's in health care. Well, we know he's everywhere, he's probably also in health care, and we also know what areas he's in. And when a law regulating transparent – more transparent – this cannot be – the award of concessions, you attack this content, so that, clearly on purpose, you see that the most controversial mass award of concessions has occurred in your mandate, probably regardless of the needs, but according to the wishes of your friends, of course, in the proverbs. Since this law provides for concessions to be granted under specified conditions, so far they have not been granted and have not been granted in a small way, at the discretion of the Minister or at the discretion of the Mayor, not necessarily in accordance with the needs of patients for these health services. Many times concessions were awarded to those who stepped out of the public service system and went their way, with their companies, with their espionage, however, they arranged for the concession, got it and moved on. This concession probably wasn't granted according to the needs of the patients, was it? But this need was probably created by one of the intermediate maneuvers that we have already discussed. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Godec, you have a lot of evidence on your committee, but I don't know if the police and the NPU have already received any results from this commission to help and finally come to any epilogue in court. So you can clear that up with yourself. In short, the law regulates the award of concessions as one of the most controversial areas. And why there is so much opposition, it would also be good to rethought. We have our concept, which is also in the coalition contract, public health – accessible and quality public health care and concessionaires as part of the part where public health institutions or health homes or hospitals cannot provide any service for human resources, finance, whatever the reason. And in this case, there is a reason, patients need services to be tendered, new ones, because after the old invitation to tender there was no, but it has just been awarded, the concession act, the tender, the selection, the award, the signing of the concession contract, transparent from the first to the last step. Of course, when some legislation is adopted in an area, it lasts, at least when it is systemic, for some time. And that's our concept. The other concept, which has been described several times today, especially on that side, would like something else. This same concept, of course, also advocates the state-of-the-art medical organisation and some associations in this area. Why, have I ever said that, after their marriage, should I never have been adopted? Because, in fact, it will then legislate and consolidate the transparency of the award of concessions and, above all, what they do not want, it will maintain a concession scheme where public health institutions cannot provide these services. Because the desire of those who are opponents, the biggest opponents of this law, is the following, we do not need concessions and public health institutions are the same as all of us private doctors who have our own medical practices over any already legal form. And according to their money from ZZZS, it is said for our money that they and public health institutions should compete equally, namely, according to the market system. But let me warn you that the health system, health care, is not a market commodity. My health is not a market commodity. And that's why there's this competition that you want, some of you have one more step ahead of you involving more insurance companies instead of one, there's no room for it, not with us, not with the system we have. And not to compare some foreign systems where more insurance companies compete and then sign contracts between insurance companies different operators and then in the framework of this. They don't have health homes there, like we do at the primary level, which the whole world envys and praises us anyway. They don't have state-owned hospitals like we do. They don't have such a system, so you can't take something from that system and put it into our system and say, "Here, this is now this saving solution, this is the solution to all the problems. It's not. Once again, at the end of the line, because all economic operators, insurance companies, work for one reason, and this is not for us, you, anyone to provide health services, of course, clearly, for this are set up, but the basic purpose is of course to create profits. ZZZ, public health institutions are not here to make profits. That's not why they're here. And that is why this direction that some of you are advocating is extremely dangerous, and above all, I hope to say that Slovenia is inappropriate because only 2 million of us are. I don't know how many miles we have in every hospital. There's so much more nursing homes. And we already have it all. And all of this is owned by the congregations or by the state. We can't just say that it isn't and we're just gonna close up and now we're going to go new, but now we're going to adopt some new rules of the game. If this law goes through – and this law will be passed in the end, I am sure – it will be for quite some time, even if the second option comes to the government the next term or the next one, this will not change. I'm sure you can't change things like that. Because it's a cardinal 180-degree change. [[advertising from the hall]] Then you will. A colleague in his old manner, and in this cultural level he is capable of, falls into the word. So, I'm pretty sure this law is going to be passed. If any amendments are needed on the committee, we probably don't have a problem with that either. But I think he's mostly assigned. So I hope we can wrap this up for the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u73	Replica Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Zorman, here's what I'm going to say, NPU, SDT, KPK has what the Investigation Commission is investigating on the table since 2013. I ask you, what did the NPU, KPK, SDT do during this time? Nothing at all. In a year, the Commission of Inquiry came to conclusions where a doctor admitted corruption before the public. Mr. Zorman, where's the NPU? Where's KPK? Where's SDT? And I don't allow myself, as president of the commission of inquiry, to be asked what these institutions are doing. Ask them. Let the government ask them. You ask them. We will make our mission with all members of the Commission of Inquiry. And the moment the doctor confessed to a corrupt act, the NPU should be out there locking it up. And you're asking me if I gave them the records. What are they gonna do with the records? Everybody's watching, the whole public's watching, the NPU, the criminals, everybody. They didn't do anything from that Friday to today. I ask you what the government has done to what the law enforcement authorities have done, Mr. Zorman? Yeah, they're looking at a luft because that's what they're told because the party told them not to investigate. Now I'll tell you. And you said that this health system wouldn't change while you and the other governments were here. Yeah, because you're so ordered, because you don't allow market activity. No, my health is not a market commodity either, but I'm not going to die in the waiting period, in the waiting line, I don't know how many, like people waiting and having a suitcase full of you thinking about how you're going to fix the health system. You won't. There is no transparency in this law because in article 44b you wrote that the tender for concessions is published on the concession website. What transparency is this, Mr. Zorman? What's that? On the Ministry's side, it will be listed, not on the public portal, not on the European portal, where 750 000 euros is the border where it can be published. Why did you do that? Why did you let them be a non-economic activity? To avoid this directive, which is just what you are talking about. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u75	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, will be given the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, those who have endured the four-hour debate! As mentioned, I really wrote it down because they say the smart ones write. At the conclusion of this debate, allow me now to respond through the substantive clusters in 10, 11 points. Since I have been told many times in this assembly, and of some Members on the Health Committee itself, that I am very stubborn, I will say that I am first patient, very patient, because this law has been coordinated since 29 September 2015, because, of course, no my predecessor or the government has obviously had so much patience for such key changes, which currently regulate the legality of the granting of licences and concessions. Of course, I am also stubborn in one part, and that is when, after consulting a professional, I believe and realize that this is a concept that is good for all of us, for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and not only for the so-called profession, which unfortunately, many of us are hiding only the individual interests of the interest groups, unfortunately, too many times in public discussions, the patient is abused, it is said that any of us who gets sick and does not need the help of a doctor can. Slovenia has made a decision and made a network of health systems many years ago, and this is a public health system. And this coalition and this government have committed themselves to the coalition agreement to preserve and strengthen public health in a solid manner, accessible, secure and defend the values of public health, so that every citizen will have access and the right to health care, regardless of his or her income status or property status. Since I have many opportunities to talk to all European ministers, not just these, I have recently returned from the General Assembly of the World Health Organization and I must tell you that I am proud of the Slovenian health system, particularly our primary or primary health care. And even in early June, the entire Slovenian public will have the opportunity to see and hear when we organize a consultation at Bled, or if you want, a political dialogue on strategy and solutions in basic health in Slovenia. And many of us envy this very part. Because the whole development of the health system is about strengthening basic health care to bring health services as close as possible to people at local level. If I continue because it has been repeatedly said that this proposal is contrary to the European legal order, let me say that this is not true. It is the responsibility of each Member State, in accordance with the Article of the Treaty of Lisbon, to organise and provide health care and health care as it is, of course, decided and considered to be the best for its population. And, as I have already said, health care is carried out within the public health service network as an activity of general interest, as it is a matter of carrying out health activities in the public interest. It is the responsibility of the State or the local community and is implemented under a specific public law regime. For this there are a number of judgments of the European Court of Justice which attach to this. Among other things, there are such judgments by the European Court of Justice that point to the case of pharmacy activity from 2006 onwards, that public interest is a concern for human health, access to medicines above the interest of a free economic initiative if you want competitiveness and marketability. Well, thank God that Europe has also recognised and recognized that health is a value that cannot really be dependent solely or solely on certain interests or, if you want, on an income position. As a result, all of these observations and the contrary, do not have adequate arguments or evidence. By the way, let me mention that you've been exposing some of the authors, and I'm not going to name them. If we go back and look back, these same authors had different opinions for the same things, and you can read them in past practices. This is sad, though, because it is also obvious from the contracting authority, the objective, and the way a study is paid, it may depend on someone taking a completely different position within a few years. With regard to what has been specifically said more than once and with regard to coordination, I should say that there have been a number of coordinations throughout this year and a half. I can read it to you because there are records for everything, you know, but that's what my long-term careers and experience have taught me. Yes, coordination, yes, listening, hearing, when it comes to the welfare of the patient, not when it comes to the welfare of individuals or individual stakeholders. Some, however, understand that there is no cooperation if the opposite party does not accept all their proposals. And believe me, as long as I am Minister of Health, I will accept such proposals, of course, if this assembly accepts them, which will go into getting a patient an even better, better, more accessible health service. Therefore, some people understand, irrespective of the reference to the provision in the articles, how they participate in the drafting of the law, that cooperation is only when someone fully gives in and adopts the solutions of the opponents. The wise people know that there are good solutions to constructive compromises, but they must be prepared by both sides that cooperate and negotiate. Regarding young doctors, let me say that, as presented, things are not right and are not right. Young doctors can perform and are a health care provider either in a public health institution or with a private concessionaire or with a clean privateer and work as independent physicians. No one's holding them back. And talking about getting out of the country is politely said to be a distortion of truth or a tendency. However, it is true that they cannot be as a health care provider, so that they cannot establish or open up independent health practices or run for concessionaires. And I'm going to tell you now what are the solutions in some countries of Europe that you won't say that this minister, who is so stubborn again, has made something up that it's not about greater security and quality of services. All countries in Europe have one way or another, when a doctor can become a private person after the completion of his specialization and open his office. And I'll only give you a few countries. At the primary level, it is usually at least two to three years. However, when it comes to specialization at secondary level, this is 5 to 10 years of experience after specialisation. And, let's say, Italy goes even further because it's already demanding a local level for 8 years and regionally for 10 years when it comes to specialist clinics. So, what you mentioned many is not true, and I will be very committed because I know that young doctors would like to stay at home and work, of course under improved payment methods and conditions, because in the end this is also the result of negotiations with trade unions where I advocated young doctors to get a little better pay and that we will hire them into the public health system. It's just that many of you have abandoned me for this, and now I hear how practically I'm pushing you abroad. Ask your expert who has done research what is the real reason for young doctors to leave. Far from it, after all, he pays it even in second, third place. Relationships, relationships! This is one of the key reasons why young doctors choose to go abroad. The next thing you know, it shows how patient we are, how constructive we are. After 12 years of irregular midwife status, in 9 months of hard bargaining with the signature of all nursing and nursing unions, we have coordinated and, in the transitional provisions, have resolved for 12 years the outstanding status of middle nurses in order to recognize by work their acquired competence to work as a graduate nurse. So if you really were so stubborn and didn't listen and know how to compromise, you probably wouldn't have solved it, something that cost 12 years. About the terms of the business. As I have already said, in a transparent legal way we are setting up a system for granting work permits and concessions. And once again, nobody is cancelling the concession because concessionaires are part of the public network. By the way, you've talked a lot about the network – we have a network. This is the actual network we're paying for. Unfortunately, no minister came after me to redefine it. It is true that it has not yet been completed, made, but in the Resolution on the National Health Plan we have drawn up and described the criteria for networks. I will list only a few of the criteria: the number of inhabitants, their age, sexual structure, disability and other characteristics. We are working and will work with foreign experts, including with the help of European money, for which I had to negotiate, to prepare a network of basic contours, I hope and I believe, by the end of this year. Come in. But if I may ask you: Does it seem fair and proper to you what it allows, today's system allows that after someone has received a concession, a peaceful concession sells, retires, sells it for 50, 100,000 euros and has a nice rent. Does this seem fair to you, too, to taxpayers who pay contributions and money to pay for their health services? That's the way this money goes. That's what this law solves, too. Next. We are instituting an inspection that has not been carried out so far because there have been such shortcomings. Not to say that we regulate the legal basis for carrying out healthcare activities in homes for older citizens, in other institutions, for example, for special purposes. For the Court of Auditors points out that the medical treasury should not finance this activity, because it is not an appropriate legal basis. With regard to the conditions themselves, I would like to say that one day it will be clear and the public will be aware of this. The concessionaire is a private person who works under the rules of the Economic Society Act. What does that mean? This means that it regulates all processes, processes, manages, leads and decides on its own profits. When he receives the concession, he is part of the public health network and is a private concessionaire. What does that mean? This means that he is still operating under the rules of the company, but that he gets his income from public funds from public money. Every country in the world, every system where it pays something out of public money, has the right, the duty and the responsibility to lay down the rules of the game, the right rules, the way of doing what it will require for why public money is obtained. And that's what we do in this part. Why am I saying this? Why? Because of this, you know, because they also exist at the level of the European Union, I will not read to you the English text, but one such discussion and conclusions that talk about competitiveness between healthcare providers from 7 May 2015 write very well for Slovenia, and I will not read to you the English text, but I will tell you briefly in Slovenian what it says. How and who operates under equal conditions, as has been said so many times. It is clearly established that private individuals have the advantage, because of course they are not the true “different legal bonds”. This is said to have different legal obligations to their employees, because it is very clear how private practices can have lower labour costs than in this case these public institutions, because of course they decide themselves and operate according to other rules. What I've been saying all the time, and if a man still tries, looks, and there's a lot of other things at the level of the European community, he can figure it out. Nor does it need to respect the Public Procurement Act and, of course, to discuss, negotiate and negotiate bilaterally. That's a lot easier, of course. I do not apologize for this and we also do joint public procurements, registers and these other things to get that part that you like to read so much about systemically and I do not know what kind of corruption it is. And that, and I'm going to wrap it up slowly, because I could do a lot more, and I'm not going to go into detail, it's basic concepts and solutions. As far as the invitations are concerned. Look, there are no calls now, and now you're telling us there's no transparency. Yes, it's very transparent. Once the tender for concessions has been published, either on the concessional website or on the public procurement portal. But let me tell you, from everything I said in the introduction, these tenders are not bound by the concession directive, because this type of activity does not apply. Even though we would have already adopted in Slovenia the concept that health service is an economic service, the rules of the concession directive would have been in force in three articles and I will not read them to you. We could also talk about eTravel about the patient's rights and waiting periods. Finally, let me say this – people who need urgent medical attention because their lives are at risk get this help immediately or no later than 24 hours. And it's very disrespectful and misleading that people die and lose their lives because of waiting lists. I will not say now what projects we are doing at this level to clear waiting lists, because I have already said this many times, but I think it is right for the Slovenian public to hear this because it is not true what you are saying. I will conclude that, as Minister of Health, I am and will defend such solutions to Slovenian health care, which will also provide to all people in Slovenia long-term, accessible, solidarity, safe, quality public health. Moreover, Slovenia, as a small economy, as a country with only two million people, unfortunately incomes, according to the latest income figures – more than 75% of the total population has income, at least according to official data, to the average wage. And given how health technology is progressing, unfortunately, in the way that we will pay ourselves out of our pocket or, if you want, through insurance companies that also make profits on our premiums, we will no longer be able to provide and afford such health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u77	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing yes. I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If she also wants to discuss the Government's representative, please also apply by pressing the microphone key, in which case she gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mr. Branko Zorman, you have five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u78	Before that time was running out, or it was my colleague's turn to discuss it with me. One more time about this investigative commission you're running. If you are assessing that you are in charge of the investigating authorities of this country, to which you are not obliged to send anything, because they obviously have a lot of time and are monitoring these meetings, because they do not have another to do in life, I recommend that it is likely that it will be more useful and constructive to solve this area and to identify those involved in this business, as we have already found not by officials, but by natural persons, doctors, suppliers and so on, that you send these records to the competent authorities, so that these processes will finally be completed and I hope that they will be completed. There's nothing to add to the content. I've told you everything before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u79	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u80	Mr. Zorman first, one more time. We're not over investigative bodies, but we have the same powers, Mr. Zorman, you're a member of the commission, you can participate constructively, you're once. However, you know that records from the house can be sent when the procedure is completed, that is, when the minutes are adopted at the meeting of the Board of Inquiry. However, in order for the minutes to be adopted, a summary of the magnetogram must be obtained by witnesses, confirmed and then completed. However, if the meetings I refer to were final, these minutes would have been adopted earlier. Of course, I have to say here that this doesn't fly to your client and to your SD client, but maybe to someone else, even to Desus, they're actively involved. That's what you have to say. So when the minutes are adopted, they will also be sent to the authorities because this is agreed upon. And we always respect that. So you don't teach me how to run. Come along sometime, and you'll see what's going on there. As far as the Minister, the young doctors, are concerned, they are going abroad because of the nonsense we are listening to today, because of the laws you are enacting today, and also because of mutual relations and because of what I have already said. And that is exactly what we need to agree on, mutual relations, read today, and for 14 days we have been reading statements from a young doctor who had to go abroad or who had to go abroad just because of these relationships. He is not the only one, there are other statements by young doctors who do not want to perform publicly because they fear this repression in Slovenia and the punishment for public speaking that older doctors are eating their work and preventing them from developing abroad. He's not the only one. Once again, read Medicine today, or I don't know, those posts online where they talk about young doctors, including other portals where young doctors abroad give interviews about how things are going. As far as that's concerned, who's talking about selling concessions, Madam Secretary? I didn't talk about it. I said that under the European Directive, concessions can be transferred to another if they meet certain conditions, and these are, of course, that this new concessionaire fulfils all the conditions under these rules. Where there is transparency in awarding concessions through public tenders, if published only on the concessionaire’s website. This is just like if I am an employer, but I want to hide the call for a new job, and I only post it on my own website just before I want to get a job or a deadline. That's what they do, you know that. And it's the same with these concessions. Where's the transparency here, Madam Secretary? The invitation to tender, I agree, I agree that matters need to be settled, but these ugly concessionaires eat state money or tax money. How ugly these concessionaires are. And now I'm going to ask you, how many corrupt acts have happened in concessionaires? How many corruption cases, how many overpayments of material in concessionaires who receive tax money? Up to 30 % have less paid services than public establishments. Don't blink your head, 30% less have paid programs. I can get you information now, if you want to, which will be official, but well, let's leave now, they get money, taxpayers, just like public institutions. They negotiate hard because they have to negotiate for the prices of the material, they negotiate hard. Yes, of course they do not have an invitation to tender and negotiate, but also in public institutions, prices could be reduced through negotiations, Madam Minister. And I'm gonna get to what's left of the ventricles. Did you lower your prices now? You are, yes. Due to the tough negotiations of some in the working group, you have reduced prices from EUR 900 below EUR 200 due to the tough negotiations. There was money stolen in the public office, Madam Secretary. Where is such a difference in concessionaires? Where did the concessionaires have so much money for overpayment of material? And now I'm thinking, ugly concessionaires, because they're taking taxpayers' money. And for that money they get, they negotiate hard. I am not defending either because in public health institutions some would like to negotiate, but this was not possible. But the biggest corruption has taken place in public health institutions. And stop talking about concessionaires needing taxpayers' money, and that's why, when you do, they do bad things. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u81	There's no replica, Mr. Branko Zorman. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I am pleased that after three years of the ministry, we have finally come to talk about certain changes in the National Assembly. A law that's been in sync for two years. I don't know, Minister, whether it's stubborn, or persistence, or maybe incompetence. Everyone can explain it in their own way. I think that the law should see the light of the world substantially earlier, because the health system essentially needs effects first. The fact is, you will leave the health system in a significantly worse state than you've been given. That's a fact. More people are waiting. Hospitals have bigger losses. 300,000 patients, if I round, are waiting for a favor. Fifty thousand of them will be inadmissible for a long time. Is this public health service available to everyone? I think we all agree here and we all advocate a system that will be accessible to all Slovenes and Slovenes. But does that mean accessibility? And with this change, unfortunately, this accessibility will not be any greater. I'll give you another case on accessibility. But if you're waiting for a service, unfortunately, the kids are waiting a thousand 850 days, five years for an orthodontist. How do you even hope to talk about the accessibility of the health system? Five years. When this poor child turns up, he probably doesn’t need this service anymore, unless he was lucky that his parents could pay for it. By saying that health care is free of charge to us, it's been holding for years, unfortunately. At least dentistry is on our own, those who can and can do it. But in three years, you haven't been able to bite into the most pressing problem. This is to say clearly and loudly, for so much money in our country we get so many health services. So much money, so much music. So much money, more money – there will be more and more affordable health care. So, you're going to have to kind of bite into a basket of services. True, not this government, or any other government, had no power, no courage, whatever you want, but the fact is, we should do it. I am also interested in how health care will be more accessible to all with these changes. Of course, unfortunately, it's not true. People, I'm going to tell people, anyway, there's a lot of people who prefer to go to a concessionaire than a public institution. Why? I don't know. Is there a better service? I don't think so. It's important for people to come in line when they're sick to get a doctor. With these changes unfortunately, you are not going in this direction. But there is another interesting thing, because you are here by concessionaires, especially SMC, so much disturbed – in public education you have no problem. More! You're going to raise their stakes, you're going to make them completely equal to public institutions. Public health, public education – I agree, these are two good things that must remain under the control of the state forever, only obviously under this government will it not.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you to all the debaters. This also concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 46. At the end of the day, the proposal recommended the problem of Slovenian health. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 19 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Health Committee, which proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Branko Zorman, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, say good-bye again! We're gonna have to hold on a little longer. Colleagues and colleagues! I will now read the Committee's report, given that in a few minutes I will be back behind this speaker panel when I present to you the position of our Group of Members, and now I will present the report from the Committee's meeting. The Health Committee shall meet at its 23rd session, on 10. 5. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of Slovenian health, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The proposal for a recommendation was published on the website of the National Assembly, in the Rapporteur of 29. 3. 2017. No amendments were tabled within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The introductory supplementary explanation of the proposal was given by Jelko Godec on behalf of the applicant. She pointed out that there were many problems in Slovenian health care that were not being solved. The National Assembly therefore recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia immediately suspend all those responsible in the health sector who have not prevented or even allowed corruption and crime in procurement, and those who have not amended health laws and acts in a timely manner. The Minister of Health is subjectively and objectively responsible for underestimating the health situation and should therefore resign and otherwise resign the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the area, the proposer highlighted corruption in health care, joint public procurement, long waiting periods, irregularities in the recruitment of individual public health institutions and at the Ministry of Health, and losses in public health institutions. The representative of the Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State, strongly opposed the allegations that the situation in Slovenian health is as catastrophic as the proposaler is trying to present the recommendation. She then presented the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and provided explanations as well as explanations concerning the above-mentioned content in specific areas. In particular, she stressed that all the comments made by the proposal's proponents were misleading, since the material's proponents deliberately gave the impression that they were exceptional in the field of health. The Ministry of Health does not underestimate the importance of the financial, waiting and operating situation of public health institutions, which is reflected in the legislative changes made and in concrete measures that provide conditions for the transparent, efficient and quality functioning of the health system in the long term. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia rejects all allegations that the conduct of the Minister of Health or the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is inadequate, since the legality and the measures being implemented are carried out professionally and legally. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. She pointed out that the first priority recommendation proposed the identification of the responsibility of the Minister of Health with regard to the conduct and the health situation, which are detailed in the explanation of the recommendation. The responsibility of the Minister of Health of the National Assembly can undoubtedly be discussed and decided on, but it is intended to do so by the Constitutional Institute of Interpellation, which is one of the basic institutes of the relationship of division of power between legislative and executive and is governed by Articles 118 of the Constitution and 250 to 253 of the Rules of Procedure. This institution allows at least 10 Members to intercede with regard to the work of each Minister; on the other hand, it allows the Minister to prepare an answer to the interpretation and provides him with the appropriate time. Since the recommendation deals with issues which, by content and by purpose, may only be subject to interpretation, is not consistent with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and is also not submitted in the form, manner and procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure, it is therefore contrary to the principle of the division of power. In line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Coalition Members have proposed that a decision be put to the vote that the recommendation is not appropriate for further consideration. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted the following decision: The proposal for a recommendation on the issue of Slovenian health is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u85	I give the floor to Mrs Jelki Godec's representatives for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of her mother's working body. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I think there's been a lot of talk at the last point, though. When it began to talk about the Minister and corruption in health care, about health losses, about the deteriorating health situation under her ministry, the Minister left the Chamber, is now replaced by others; obviously the health situation in the Ministry is not the best, or at least not the condition. We have put into the procedure a proposal for a recommendation on the issue of Slovenian health, where it is stated that we recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to immediately suspend all those responsible in the health sector who have not prevented or even allowed corrupt and criminal offences in procurement; and those who have not prepared changes to health legislation and laws in a timely manner. Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc is certainly responsible for underestimating the situation and inappropriate conduct. Otherwise, we recommend that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, resign. We have explained this recommendation in several points. The first point is health corruption, as it also refers to a recommendation in this direction that all those responsible in health and who have not prevented corruption should also be suspended. The previous point said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we constantly point out that corruption in health is occurring, that these corruptions are acts of corruption; and that we never say clearly and loudly where and who committed or participated in these corrupt acts. I think that the eloquent commission of inquiry is in the field of vascular resistance, which has already specifically pointed to certain persons who have participated in corruption and also to institutions that have not prevented or reacted in the past or now that matters are already clear. That the matter is even more tragic, as well as the Minister of Health in this area, somehow ignores this commission of inquiry, its findings, or the testimony of doctors, buyers, and everyone else. So far, with nothing to do with it, it has not intervened with or taken advantage of any of the possibilities it has in order to allow such corrupt actions or all of these matters to be investigated or encouraged by law enforcement institutions to work more intensively in this area. The Minister is constantly addressing the area of public procurement that is supposed to regulate these matters or that corruption in health should no longer occur. These public contracts have been implemented since 2015, as far as my information is concerned, matters are still pending, and are still pending. We are talking about these contracts, which the minister is talking about, namely, common public contracts — diapers, needles, gloves and such things, which otherwise contribute to lowering costs, but other matters are more difficult to deal with. The reaction when the doctor also reported skipping waiting lines, so he reported a corrupt act, was that the minister was vehemently saying that she was not responsible or that she did not know what to do; and that the system allowed such actions. In order to change this system or to help change the system, the minister also does not feel called. Although the Ministry has supported the project of the common price base now run by the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, it is also intended to reduce corruption or to know at what prices it is procured at various hospitals in Slovenia. However, I believe and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe that this is not enough. It is also necessary to look at prices abroad, compare them with the European market and not look only within the country of Slovenia. Also, this list, this project of common prices, if anyone had a chance to look at it, is still very messy. I hope that in time it will only be cleared up, cleaned up, and at the moment, despite the fact that we have this issue for some time, it is not settled. The next issue is the recruitment in public health institutions carried out by the Ministry of Health. If the public is monitoring this recruitment, it can monitor strictly specifically in the case of Brežice General Hospital, UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor, where matters are still unregulated. Although the Minister has ensured that all the staff he appoints to the government are professional, with all the competences, work experience and other professional grounds, it has proved, after about a year at Brežica General Hospital, that the Director has resigned because she is obviously incapable of handling health or hospital management issues; that in the UKC Ljubljana, which is a public health institution, the Minister has given her consent or has submitted a proposal to the Government for a consent to Mr Kopača, who is currently serving as director of the UKC Ljubljana, but does not have all the work experience that is expected to be the Director-General of the University Clinical Centre. We can also say in Maribor that the university clinical centre is without a director with full powers; however, the minister has still not decided how to resolve these matters there. Change of board members of the institution, we have mentioned this several times, 80 out of 134 in nine months, with the aim of making things better in health institutions. However, we can see that trade has not helped improve the work of public health institutions. Area of legislation; today we have talked about the Health Act, which according to the Slovenian Democratic Party is inappropriate for further consideration. At the same time, I believe that this law should be in the National Assembly at the same time as the Health and Health Insurance Act, because this is the package of laws that will tell us where our healthcare will go in the future. Not that today we are considering the Health Action Act, which is supposed to solve the area of concessions, has made them more transparent, although in previous discussions we have found that it is not. And that we still do not know how much or will we pay for the new proposal of the Health and Insurance Act, what our contribution rate will be, how much more or less we will pay. At the same time, we also do not know why we are going to pay for the same thing or for better care. The minister claims that our health care will be better in coming, without waiting types and so on; these laws somehow do not indicate this. Since legislation was the priority of the coalition at the beginning or in its coalition contract to first regulate the health system, or that it is its priority; and just before the end of the mandate, we are discussing solutions for Slovenian health and these laws, if adopted in the National Assembly, will be adopted in force at the time when the next government will start its work. The next thing that is most pressing or most sensitive to patients is waiting periods. After the review – every month we review waiting periods in Slovenian health care – they are constantly increasing, although the ministry has already invested quite a few beautiful millions in projects to shorten waiting periods. It was found, however, after an analysis for 2016 that some hospitals did not comply with the programme for which they were selected. For 2017, although we do not yet have who applied for additional programmes to reduce waiting periods and who received these programmes, it is clear that waiting periods are prolonged according to the statistics of the National Institute for Public Health and that each month is 2% more than in the past month, I am also talking about waiting above the limit. According to some data, more than 500,000 people, half a million people, are expected to wait for the next month. And as my colleague said, there are only two million of us, and if half a million of us are waiting in line, then I don't know where the quality Slovenian health care is. And I want to know what the Minister was talking about at the Geneva meeting, what good practices she was talking about; or what long waiting periods she was talking about, what corruption in health care, how to run health care institutions. I have to say, it's nice that the secretary was in Geneva, but I'm just wondering what things she's presented. However, I hope that it has brought good practices from abroad and will be able to implement them in the coming months in the new legislation. The waiting periods are expected to shorten by e-Procurement, and I will be more in the debate. I have my own example of how e-ordering is going. I have to say, we're almost out of the age of information technology to make progress; but we're going to the Kremenčky era, which is when the computers were 486. Because on the phone, you ask for an e-mail and they make it for you, but then you have to get in the car and go to the doctor. Are you going to get an e-mail?Oh, my God! I don't know where the e-mail machine is, but now instead of the green sheets, we get a white one where it says a certificate about an eTip. And with that e-mail, then you call the doctor and you order. I have to say, there's only more red tape. I would like to know who created this eProcurement app at the Ministry and how much money it was for us to now print white instead of green papers. Here I would like to ask if the Ministry can answer me from the outset, how much money has been spent on e-Procurement and who is implementing this e-Procurement, which I think is no e-order. I have to say, people think that if they e-order, they're hired, but it's not actually true. As far as public health institutions are concerned. Public health institutions under this Ministry may be in debt to the sky, as they would call it. When we warned at the beginning of the year that UKC Ljubljana, as our largest public agency, will have a multimillion-dollar loss, three times the million-dollar loss it had in 2015. At the end of 2015, it was a 6 million-dollar loss. And when we warned that there would be a 19-million loss, the minister, as well as the biggest coalition party, claimed that we were overreacting to scaring people. Well, we finally came to EUR 25 million in losses in UKC Ljubljana. The Council of the Institute has not been given any measures, at least until recently, that this should be stopped so that such debt should not take place in public institutions. It was said that public institutions were not to create profits. I agree, it's not because of this; it's because it's to create millions of losses and it's to this million-dollar loss of taxpayer money. And then the minister goes to the hospital and promises 700 grand, promises a million and so on. Where does this money come from, for what purposes this money is for? Whether it's pay, whether it's services, or it's material that's being overpaid anyway, which has already been proven. You also made public contracts in some area to prove that the material was overpaid. The debt allowed during this ministry is in the sky. Of course, there are other things we would like to draw attention to, but my colleagues will also draw attention to them in the debate themselves. However, that the recommendation is unconstitutional is a ridiculous excuse for the coalition, which has already adopted several laws in this National Assembly, which have been known or presented as constitutionally contested by the ZPS, not to mention the withdrawal of the mandate of one of the Members and of other matters, and to excite themselves on what the Constitution is. Although the President of the Government is a constitutional lawyer, we are told that the recommendation is unconstitutional. We recommend that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia suspend all those who have not prevented corruption and crime in procurement and in health care and that the Minister is therefore subjectively and objectively responsible. The Minister is subjectively and objectively responsible for the health situation and we therefore propose that the Government invite her to resign. We can also do this with interpolation, and to begin with, we did it with a recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u87	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Ana Medved, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone! The Ministry of Health shall carry out measures and activities to ensure, in the long term, the conditions for the transparent, efficient and quality functioning of the healthcare system. With regard to the issue of Slovenian health care regarding corruption in health care, recruitment in public health institutions, the adoption of legislation, waiting periods, as well as the indebtedness or poor operation of public health institutions, we provide the following clarifications. The issue of procurement of medicines and medical devices in hospitals and related corruption risks or the existence of corruption has been present in Slovenia for a longer period, and the Ministry of Health, during the term of office of this Government, has approached the problem on the basis of a clearly defined and reported position and the objective of zero tolerance for corruption. The Ministry of Health carries out several activities in this field. Thus, with the aim of preventing overpayments, the Ministry of Health made recommendations to all public health institutions regarding the implementation of public procurement procedures; the Ministry of Public Administration was involved in the common procurement procedures; it also supported the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia to establish a common base of medicines called Intravisor. Hospitals should use that base as one of the basis for market verification in public procurement procedures. Data on the prices of materials are primarily used to assist health-care directors and other responsible persons to purchase in responsible and rational decision-making regarding the procurement of material, to develop the estimated value of each contract; at the same time, they are also a good bargaining point for the contracting authority in the implementation of the new procurement procedures. The application currently covers data from all hospitals and three health homes and will gradually add data from other health homes. With regard to recruitment in public health institutions, we reiterate that the appointment of representatives of the founder is carried out in accordance with the Protocol on the selection of candidates for representatives of the founder in the Councils of Public Health Institutions, where the founder of the Republic of Slovenia is. Here, for the first time in 2015, clear criteria for the appointment of representatives of the founder were laid down on the basis of public calls. The Ministry of Health has also prepared material for the work of representatives to be more professional and effective for the work of representatives of the founder in the Councils of Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. This material contains the most important guidelines and is also made publicly available on the websites of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health also organises consultations with representatives at least twice a year because the government does not directly manage representatives. Since the government does not exercise direct management in public health institutions, but has transferred this function to its representatives in the world of the institution, the saints of the institutions in the appointment of directors are completely independent, and their consent to the government. With regard to the adoption of legislation, we explain that the amendment of the Law on Health Activities in the Government was adopted on 21 April 2017, and this month a general debate will take place in the National Assembly, now. We estimate that the amendment will be adopted in advance of parliamentary holidays. With regard to the adoption of the new Health and Health Insurance Act, however, comments are being reviewed, meetings with different stakeholders and the drafting of the complementary text of the bill. As far as waiting times are concerned, the Ministry of Health has taken an active approach to their resolution. In 2016, additional funds have already been provided under the general agreement to reduce waiting periods, similar to or to a greater extent this year. This dedicated funding for the implementation of the one-year project totals €36 million, €18 million in 2017 and €18 million in 2018. In the framework of the partnership negotiations, additional funding of €20 million will be provided for the implementation of the single additional programmes of the so-called EDP with a view to reducing the number of waiting periods. Additional resources to reduce waiting periods will also be provided through the gradual transfer of funding for non-health services, namely tertiary 1 and traineeships and specialisations, from the CFSP to the state budget starting in 2017, when the transfer will amount to EUR 20 million. In order to improve the operating conditions of public health institutions, the government increased the prices of health services in 2015 and 2016, as they have been temporarily reduced several times in the past. These prices increased by 2 % between July and December 2015 and by 3,6 % between June and December 2016. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. Good afternoon! The recommendation of the Slovenian Democratic Party highlights two key problems of the Slovenian health system, and in Novi Slovenija, of course, we agree. Firstly, the rise in systemic corruption is worth mentioning. And secondly, poor public health business. On the Committee, the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of Slovenian health was put to the vote as inappropriate for further consideration from completely uncompromised elements. In order to improve the health system, if I say so, we have prepared in Nova Slovenija the starting points for health reform, which is actually by measure of people, citizens and citizens of Slovenia, because we firmly believe that the Slovenian citizen must finally get a healthy health system to decide for himself how his treatment will take place. In the center is a person, an individual and his preventive and curative health. It is important to highlight one more thing in these recommendations, namely the lack of legislative initiatives, legislative measures to improve our health system. The inadequacy of today's system is certainly also the provision of equal services to individuals and the comparability between the same services of individual operators, as standards and standards are not fully established. In order to ensure the quality of services and competitiveness, standards and standards must be introduced as soon as possible. Competition between operators and even between insurance companies would certainly create sufficient pressure on, as a result, shortening waiting periods. Payments for services rendered would allow for greater efficiency and also for flow. By bringing competitiveness into the health system, it is possible to achieve a reduction in the cost of purchasing material, services and thus to ensure better quality care for all participants in the process. The Minister promised to shorten waiting periods, but these are still absolutely long and can also lead to very tragic stories that would not be rationalized and reduced waiting periods. It is also clear that health corruption is causing large, many, increasing costs, non-economic and non-economic activities, the extension of waiting periods, and the quality of health services. Among other things, the Coalition Treaty states that health care will be one of the priorities of this government. But, ladies and gentlemen, after more than two years of rule of this government, this area is still not properly regulated, because our health system is actually on the brink of collapse or is in great chaos, although we do have on the one hand an extremely self-sacrificing medical staff, good doctors, medical personnel, self-sacrifice people; on the other hand, our system, the system as such, is problematic. And when the ministry is preparing a certain overhaul of this system, we started at the end, where we shouldn't start. The new legislation, in particular healthcare and health insurance legislation, has three consequences. The first negative result is definitely a new tax. You've already talked about this in the media. A new tax, essentially just translating from one pocket to another pocket; however, health care will still be in chaos despite these changes. Even a progressive scale does not respond to this justice, which would be very important in this element. Those who are being paid into the healthcare system are then rightly expected to receive quality services. Are you guys ready to go to the store and buy some yogurt and get some bad yogurt? No, no, no. We want good services if we're paying for something. And the third important element is that the reform of legislation, at least in this element, strengthens the monopoly rather than open up to competitiveness. Following the example of other European countries, people would be available where and how they would conclude their insurance, where they would spend their money, and thus decide on the course of their treatment. Competitiveness between insurance companies and operators would be necessary in order to reach a human health system. People don't care about how they pay taxes to this country. They don’t care if they pay taxes — that’s in the case of new legislation — from the left or from the right pocket. It is only essential that they receive the service they need in order to have this service made available to them. And this is not in our health system today, and this reform, which has come to the public this week, is not solving this problem. It seems that not even the entire ruling coalition agrees with this. But I would answer another populism about how the ruling party went into this reform, with the promise that 70% of people will pay less and we will have the same things at our disposal. Yeah, that's really social populism. Having someone with such talk, with such truly populist promises to solve problems, is nothing more than an excess of social populism. We're actually pulling people's ass. You can't tell people – you'll pay less and you'll get more. It's not working. I tell you that people are willing to pay some more euros in health bills, if they also get quality services, services immediately. I'm sure people are ready for this. But we won't pay any more to wait for years in waiting lines. From this point of view, another important thing is that we, in this country, not just in the health field, need to ensure one thing — not to say demagicism and populism. With such populism measures as saying that 70% of people will pay less, we are pulling ourselves over. But we're far from real solutions. If the Slovenian economy is already doing as well as the government claims, then I see no reason if there is a lack of money in our health register to simply raise the contribution rate. And we could expect that from those who are bragging about how good this country is, of course, at the expense of exporters, good entrepreneurs and economies. We really need reform measures in Slovenia, which will not only be based on promises but actually reach into the system. We have discussed before that we do not need populism and candy, but specific legislation that will radically change the course of events in our health system. Only in this way will we get a human-worthy health system, I repeat that we will no longer have to collect stoppers for the treatment of our children abroad; but that everyone will be taken care of quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u91	The word has magic. Mr Alenka Bratušek, who will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you and a nice hello. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The recommendations written by colleagues may be really inappropriate for further consideration to be better if they write off the interpolation; but the fact is that the situation in our health care is even less appropriate. I think that at least ten times, if not repeatedly, this health issue has already been discussed on the committee and here, in the National Assembly. And today is obviously a health day, we've been talking for six hours about problems and solutions that are not solutions. And of course, our speech will not change anything. We can speak for another 6 hours or six days, and things will not turn until the people at the Ministry and in the ruling coalition realize that the situation is alarming. And the fact is, I repeat, what I have said before is that this Minister and the Party of the Modern Centre will leave the health system in a significantly poorer condition, in a significantly worse state than you have taken over. This is shown by numbers: more waiting, some 10% more waiting for health care, 50,000 waiting for an unacceptable length of time; and we are hearing that health care will be transparent and effective in the long term, as the Secretary of State previously said. This will be a very long time. Much has been said about corruption in health care, even proved; nothing happens. Public institutions record a major loss from month to month, and nothing happens. We even have a public institution, and a hospital that doesn't pay its employees' contributions happens nothing. Do you know what they do if the sole entrepreneur is late? Within one week, he gets a warning and a threat of execution. The public office just doesn't pay for contributions, and nothing happens. I am sure, I sincerely believe that everyone in this Chamber wants Slovenian health care to be good and especially accessible to all Slovenes and Slovenes. That it's free, it's hard to say today. Dentity, at least this part, people already today, those who can, pay. Is public health available if someone has to wait for a thousand 850 days for a service? This is an example for orthodontists. And they've waited a long time. A thousand 850 days is five years. Is this accessible, public health? It's not. And the thing you really need to bite into is a basket of services or good. And we must clearly tell citizens and citizens how much we are getting for the money we are paying for our health care today. And I agree with my predecessor, who said that a lot of people are willing to pay some euro more to know that he will get the service when he needs it. We put a lot of criticism on the health system. I would like to point out again and again that the employees are not to blame for this. I am 100% convinced that we have health services in Slovenia in Europe, not to say at the world level. The only problem is, it's time to go. It's a shame the secretary isn't with us anymore, as it is with her, but I think it would be a good idea for her to listen to us. I wish that, despite the fact that this government's mandate is slowly running out, it still bites into the most pressing problems and begins to solve them. With the Health Activities Act ahead of us, we will not solve the biggest problems in Slovenian health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u93	Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u94	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, welcome, colleagues and colleagues! Today is the last time I will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. We are considering the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of Slovenian health, which goes beyond its purpose. In accordance with Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure, the Council recommended an act proposing measures for the work of public authorities, organisations and individuals performing public services or exercising public powers. The proposer recommends direct suspension of those responsible for corrupt and criminal offences in the proposal to the Government and does not specify the responsible or concrete levers to be used by the Government. However, the proposaler is very clear about the subjective responsibility attributed to the Minister of Health, and this is, of course, the responsibility for a series of problems that have been accumulated in Slovenian health for decades and are now gradually and slowly being resolved, but we continue to do so. It is clear that the text of the recommendation, after its content, is identical to that of interpretation, which must also be consistent with the business definitions carried out under the procedure of the interpolation institute, but not in the way that such requirements are introduced into the procedure for the consideration of the recommendation. Similarly, in its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service noted that the recommendation dealt with issues which, according to the content and purpose of determining the responsibility of the Minister of Health, based on the principle of the division of power, namely Article 3 of the Constitution, could only be subject to interpretation. Since the recommendation on the content of the interpretation is against the work of the Minister of Health, and at the same time not properly tabled, the recommendation is contrary to the principle of the division of power, contrary to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly. For these reasons, it has already been decided at the consideration of the proposal to the Health Committee that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. It cannot be overlooked that continuous attempts to demonstrate the weaknesses of the health system by the proposer appear whenever we are at the threshold of major legal changes in the field of health. When we talk about government responsibility, it must be clarified that the government is committed to establishing systemic measures, which it is also doing intensively. Even more so because of the deficit in the actions of past governments in this area. The effects of these measures come and appear over time. As the central institution of the fight against corruption, however, the Commission is working to prevent corruption. In individual cases, criminal authorities, the judiciary, as autonomous authorities, take over the institution of control over individual cases in which government and policy generally have no direct influence. This is why it is the proponent's wings, on which the sails are already in the full mandate and try to break the already complex procedures for coordinating the amendments that are promised to the professional public. This proposal for a recommendation by the proposer indicates a lack of knowledge of the basic competences of the state institutions and their tasks. Therefore, the Members of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will not be supported in this reading either. However, I would like to point out that all of the health changes – in particular the Health Act, which we are also considering at this national assembly meeting, the Patients' Rights Act, the Health and Health Insurance Act – are much to be expected. We would like to see the interest of the proposer in addressing these system laws, which act mutually as a mechanism for maintaining universal, quality and affordable health care for all citizens, at least as shown in the consideration of their anti-constitutional recommendations, which, apart from the narrow purpose of their own promotion for people, have no added value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u95	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! On the current state of Slovenian health, which, according to many, especially the professions, I point out, is literally failing to disclose irregularities in the procurement of medical equipment and medicines, corruption, affairs, extension of waiting periods, political staffing, the negative functioning of public health institutions mainly due to the inability of management staff, the growing lack of confidence of citizens in our health system, of course, the question arises why such arrogance of the President of the Government, the Minister of Health and also of coalitions to health problems, and consequently also to the taxpayer's money of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The causes of this chaotic health situation have long been known to the public, but still unpunished. With the intervention of the Minister of Health in November 2016, the President of the Government for the media said, and I will quote, not for the first time, but I think it's kind of a funny statement, so I like to repeat it several times. »Minister Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc enjoys my full support because the right person is in the right position to make a careful vision of better Slovenian health for all of us. When I appointed her Minister of Health, I knew that she would improve the lives of our citizens and citizens and improve the health system in order to be what we deserve.” Probably in the words “better” and “what we deserve” each can create his or her own opinion. I believe that the Minister of the Government really enjoys his full support, but what does this help when there is almost no more support between citizens and citizens, President Cerar. That's what the polls are saying. I'm not just talking about it. To improve the health system under the leadership of this Minister, no one believes any more, that is a fact. Even her coworkers at her ministry don't believe any more. You're here to see an exception. Because of the long waiting lines, our citizens and citizens are desperate and feel that the country has left them alone, which is true. Due to the irregularity, the affair of recruitment, the poor conduct of public institutions, we have called on 12 extraordinary meetings in our parliamentary group in this mandate, or have participated and pointed out this with more than 21 points in the Health Committee; also at a meeting of the National Assembly, but always without success. With regard to systemic corruption, we have proposed that comprehensive solutions be drawn up to eliminate systemic corruption, based on the principle of zero tolerance, to which this coalition is so eager to express itself; and that public health institutions, whose founder is the State, also ensure business on the principle of zero tolerance to corruption. At these meetings, you discussed corruption as a matter of health; however, you could not be united as to what corruption is – whether it is political or systemic; and you did not, after all, support any of our proposals. The fact is, in the health field, we face corruption within the entire system. Individuals, society and the state act in a corrupt way and this is systemic corruption. By the way, let me remind you of the famous statement concerning the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana at the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. What happened? Nothing. Companies and individuals involved in suspicious transactions are still contracting entities and suppliers. Although the Minister of Health defended that the Ministry had adopted in 2015 a protocol on the selection of candidates for representatives of the founders in the Councils of Public Health Institutions, but what if these protocols were not effective; as well as effective human resources-cleaned councils of public health institutions. It is known that the Minister of Education is in charge – only that you are ours. Recall the cases of Baričič, Kopač, a beach hospital or principal, who at the time, as a candidate for director, said that she admitted that she had no experience in health care or in managing the collective. So she didn't know anything about running public health institutions. Let me remind you that this director has already resigned at this time. If I go any further with respect to personnel – the Maribor hospital, what is going on in the Cranian maternity ward, how it was staffed at the Institute of Health Insurance a few months ago. And it would also be good to know how Dr. Rajko Kenda was almost solved, but he was saved by a procedural error and a telephone call from Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, who was supposed to ask the director of Pfeifer and Copač personally for Dr. Kendo to be reinstated. I don't think you believe her anymore in the coalition. And if the minister were here, she'd ask where this morality and ethics is now. Instead of actively taking on systemic changes in health care and working with the professional, the Minister first took on her staffing. On the one hand, I also understand it, because it is only in this way that it is likely that it will be able to carry out its health reform or systemic change, whatever it calls it. But she studied some good variant, first she will put her people through sacred public health institutions, and thus her proposals and changes, including systemic changes, will undoubtedly go easier through. But concern is that all of this reminds us of ancient times. The secretary's profession doesn't leave it behind anyway. We've talked about this today. If the Medical Chamber of Slovenia has ever spoken in the past, the Minister said that if you go behind us, it is said that the Slovenian Democratic Party, they are standing in the lobby. What about now that the Minister has replaced the President of the Medical Chamber and has appointed her President of the Medical Chamber; nevertheless, the President of the Medical Chamber disagrees with Milojka?Oh, my God! Where are the lobbyists now? The result of all this poor or political recruitment is losses in public health institutions, that is a fact. On the subject of the negative conduct of public health institutions, we have also called for an extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee in our Group of Members, and among other decisions have suggested that the Ministry should take appropriate measures to reduce the deficits in public health institutions. On the side of the coalition, we were then told that we were overreacting, that it was just some publicity, because we were alerting us to major losses in hospitals in the first half of 2016. The Coalition considered that we should wait for the results of the operation for the whole year 2016, if these results will improve. Indeed, we have waited and we have also expected the results of the operation of public health institutions for 2016, which were even more shocking than for the first half of 2016. 13 hospitals have produced record losses of €39 million, of which €25.5 million has a director, for whom the Minister stated that UKC Ljubljana has chosen the best candidate. And what did the world of UKC do here? Nothing yet. And I'm sure she won't either; although the Minister has adopted protocols and resolved them prematurely in these councils, I think that about 88 members of the public health councils have named their people. But even these able - bodied people do not do better than the former councils of public health institutions. It is also interesting how the Minister extinguishes the fire at Topolšica Hospital. Do not let God remind you that it would also solve the losses of other public health institutions, especially hospitals, where she has staffed her people. The fact is that corruption, as well as public calls, are the greatest pests, which further detracts from our public health care. Since the beginning of 2015, the Ministry of Health has failed to perform a public invitation to tender for diapers, gloves, needles and so on. And the illusion is that in this mandate this ministry will also be able to complete this call for proposals with this staff team; let alone prepare any other call for proposals, let alone diapers, gloves and so on. In this area we will still wait, wait, wait; as in waiting lines. We also expect systemic changes from the beginning of the mandate in vain. At the previous point, I also said in my position, whose systemic changes we had mainly expected in the opposition, we have not yet received anything or what we have received, but perhaps even better not to get. That health care is overpaid by corruption and overpayment of material is also evidenced by hearings at the parliamentary investigative commission on the detection of abuse in the supply and sale of vein support led by colleague Jelka. On this committee, witnesses from UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor confirmed that they had violated the Public Procurement Act and that during the time of the tenders there had been a favouring of a particular manufacturer and also of the supplier. They admitted to acting corruptly. But the director of the UKC, the minister and the law enforcement authorities are still waiting. And they're waiting like this, and I'm having more fun than our patients in waiting lines. It's sad no one's answering. And where are those saints of public health institutions that must have such and such abilities?Oh, my God! And since I mentioned the waiting lines. Data from the National Institute of Public Health show that the number of waiting persons increased by 2.6% at the primary level in March compared to February 2017. Now, as well as the €36 million that the government earmarked in April to reduce waiting periods, it will not help. And the fact is that the Ministry is wrong in the project of reducing waiting lines, because the choice of public institutions and services is back on the system – only that you are ours; and not through public tender, as the profession warns and should be. The fact is that the number of people waiting in the types of health services is increasing. If 2016 has yet to come, it has been considered that every eighth Slovenian is waiting in line for a review or health service; in 2017, on average, 1 out of every 4 citizens are waiting. This information was included in the material for the meeting of the parent committee, the material prepared by former Minister Dorian Marusic. A similar story is the eProcurement project, which cost taxpayers almost 25 million. Data from the National Institute for Public Health, where data on waiting periods are published, are incomplete and incorrect. Computers show, for example, 39 days of waiting, but it's actually four months or more. The fact is also, I think there will be something further said in the debate today, at least on the part of our Group of Members, about how we have aggregated this method of ordering. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to draw the attention of the Minister and the coalition to the health system which is before the collapse. That is why we have proposed that all those responsible in the health sector who did not prevent corrupt and criminal activities in procurement be suspended, or even with their influence, allowed those responsible for failing to prepare legal changes in the field of health in a timely manner, otherwise we have written down in the recommendation that the President of the Government resign. The coalition of our proposals on the parental committee has not confirmed. We as the opposition party cannot but warn; but then in your deliberations do not tell us that we have done nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u97	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! In the Desus Group, we can agree that our public health system faces major problems, but not from today, but from yesterday; they have accumulated for many years. In several past governments, there was no real political will, nor was it obedience to adopting the necessary changes, but even less to provide additional resources for increasingly difficult medical treatment of a large number of older patients. All of this has been pointed out by the healthcare profession, and this has also been pointed out by former ministers of health. I'm afraid it's a failure. In addition, the severe economic and financial crisis has left us fortunate in view of the current economic growth indicators that we want to boast about. Without any measures in the field of health care, the inflows to the health treasury since 2013 increased by almost 300 million by the end of last year. But today, in health care, we face problems that we have never experienced before. This is where the responsibility of our coalition, our government and also the Minister of Health begins. With health developments and changes over the last two years, we cannot be satisfied. We see the main reasons in the choice of wrong priorities and in the measures by which we do not achieve the desired objectives, which we are concerned about and which is worth considering. With the help of experts from the World Health Organization, a very good analysis of our health system has been carried out and we should follow the appropriate proposals, which we are missing today; and we are therefore feeling the consequences that are greater from day to day. Among them, they hold an intolerable long waiting period of the first place and would also want appropriate and more effective solutions in our parliamentary group in the short and long term. We are also concerned about the operation of public health institutions, which is still worse from day to day. What are the main reasons and measures to improve the situation? Surely there cannot be an answer to this question only in human resources solutions, which are the most often the only response to the failure of some public institutions, while the real reasons are deeper – systemic nature. Corruption, which is sad and still present in health care, is a painful point for all — for us, patients, health workers who are doing their best to preserve the health care that we have been rightly proud of for many years. How much longer? However, it would be wrong to argue that the Ministry did not at least seek to combat unjustified overpayment of medicinal products and medical materials. But the situation is serious. The departure of young doctors does not predict anything good, and even the ever-increasing difference between a minister and a medical organisation does not represent a good journey to prepare and accept the necessary changes in the field of health. In the Desus Group, we can believe that the Ministry of Health is actually working to ensure the conditions for the transparent, efficient and quality functioning of the health system. We would like it to assess in self-critical terms the results of the changes already adopted and, above all, to prepare as soon as possible now as necessary, including short-term measures to break the vicious cycle in the most critical areas. With regard to the recommendations proposed, we believe that the Minister of Health and the President of the Government are aware of their responsibilities in solving the accumulated problems and in drafting reform legislation. In the Desus Group, we will support the negative decision adopted by the Health Committee and thus follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that the recommendations proposed address those issues which, by content, can only be subject to interpretation and as such incompatible with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u99	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In view of the opinion given by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we are extremely negatively surprised that the President of the National Assembly has placed this point at the conclusion of the meeting. Even more surprising is the fact that, despite all the conclusions made about it, the debate is allowed at all, rather than its content being wrong, rather than fulfilling all the business conditions, which is a kind of precedent that creates bad practice and will entail a number of negative consequences. The proposal is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, which is why there should be no debate in this way, since only proposals that meet business conditions are addressed by the National Assembly at its meetings. We therefore reject participation in this debate, not because of the content, but because we still have much to say about it, but because we will not participate in such a degradation of the parliamentary process. Our opinion is the same as that of the Legal and Legislative Service, and therefore only a brief summary of this. The Recommendation is an act of the National Assembly proposing measures for the work of public authorities, organisations and individuals performing public services and exercising public powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u101	A little peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u102	As the Legal and Legislative Service has repeatedly warned, it can only recommend transferring views to the addressee for which it is not binding. The address book will do as it should. In a specific case, it is the proposals of the government and the Prime Minister to suspend certain actors and ministers, or to withdraw itself from the President of the Government, which is essentially the proposal to determine the responsibility of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, which is intended for the Constitutional Institute of Interpellation. The Recommendation deals with matters that are only subject to interpretation but are not submitted in the form, manner and procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure, and therefore is contrary to the principle of the division of power and is contrary to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Like I said. We will not discuss in our parliamentary group, but we expect it to be verified in the future that proposals are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and that such cases will no longer occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u103	Maybe I'll say something. If that happens, it'll be a revolution, because then there'll be a lot of flying. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First of all, Mrs Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u104	The President, I should even praise you now or how you have made such a recommendation, which is said to be unconstitutional in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service. You said the answer yourself, but I'm surprised my colleague pointed that out. The coalition has adopted several laws to which the ZPS has expressed the view that there are constitutionally controversial laws. Let us say the draft law on apprenticeship, where it is beautifully written that the bill is contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution. Then we have the Act on Pharmacy Activities, where several articles stated that it is contrary to the Constitution. Then the proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the Municipality of Hoče-Slivnica, then the proposal for a law on banking, then the proposal for a law on the conditions for the appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia. And also the proposal for a law restricting the use of tobacco and related products, but at that time the coalition had no problem with the law being examined and the law being even adopted. No problem. But when it comes to recommendations from the opposition, which is a recommendation, which is not a law or a regulation or anything, they have problems with that. Of course, they have problems with this because they are considering the Ministry of Health, which is a key problem for all health-related anomalies. Today, a very interesting tweet was written to enact such a law in the National Assembly, where the law will ban Mileka Kolar Celarc. Such a law would probably be unconstitutional, but it would be very interesting, as well as an interesting debate, but let's leave it. The topic is that the Minister is objectively and subjectively responsible for the health situation, of course in her mandate; not for what was before, but for what is happening today. Actually, nothing's going on. All that the minister tries to produce or bring to the public or to the National Assembly is, in fact, a great storm. While the Minister says that she is not stubborn and that she talks, participates, sits at meetings, coordinates for many years, but apparently after all this coordination and conversation, the Minister remains on her own side. When we listened to the Health Act today, I don't know; if the vote in the National Assembly was so unpolitical, given how it is said to be voted, because the coalition has to abstain from elections, then what would be the vote on the Health Act; what we heard in Desus' position and then also in the debate of the Social Democrats. I personally believe that the Minister is objectively and subjectively responsible for a number of things. The first thing is to fool the public, and the ministry can say whatever it wants, but public networks. Yes, we have a public network on which we pay, but the flexibility of the public network is intended to be established by 2018. The contrary statements made by the minister on committees, at meetings and then by secretaries in the past are – once we have a network, once we do not have a network; once it is flexible, the second it is not flexible; once we know what the needs of the inhabitants are, the second we do not know. But it's obvious you don't know. Obviously, it is not known that this has also been recorded by the Court of Auditors in its findings on the use of expensive medical equipment, where it was clearly stated that the Ministry does not know where and how these apparatus can be used today. That's one thing. So by 2018, you are planning to arrange this, while today, by means of the Health Act, you claim that you will respond to the needs of the population, regulate concessions and other matters. Where are the standards and standards? How much can a doctor do? Where do we have these things? Whether this is regulated or known is precisely how much, where and how, because many say that standards and standards in health care still do not exist. The secretary is responsible for the condition of the child's heart surgery. Why? As she claimed in this mandate that the children’s heart surgery programme was, of course, safe on the basis of the reports provided by the UKC. That's what the minister says all the time. What's going on in there? I'm not going to talk about it today. I'm not going to be told that I'm using poor kids for these things. But after witnessing to people — not only to parents who look at their parents from parents ’ viewpoints on many occasions and may be dissatisfied because they do not come at once, but to those who work in this area and who can work in this area — the situation is disastrous. We do not know today whether we are able to have child heart surgery in Slovenia, or whether we have a doctor who will have enough surgery to have enough patients to do this on his own. Yes or no? We don't know, and we're negotiating with other clinics. But the secretary says it's okay. Even put Mr. Kendo back. But you can say it didn't affect her. She did it! If she called the director and the professional director of UKC Ljubljana to her ministry and said so and so, she had an impact. Here she had power; but when we talk about losses in public institutions, the Minister no longer has any authority. Today, we have heard about public tenders, such as overpayment of material, because overpayment of material is also the cause of losses; not only that services are paid in a way and otherwise, but also that. And the Minister no longer has the authority, and suddenly they're gone. Then you answer Members' questions about these losses in public institutions, that you have recommended that you write letters, how to take action to ensure that the procurement is done in a transparent manner through public calls to make a market survey and so on. I've already asked the board; okay, okay, give me a letter. You are now expecting a man who has been working for 30 years on a purchase that has not been doing market research. There will be no, because it is okay for him to sit in the office for 30 years, call the supplier and consider the price; and this price, which is four times higher than abroad. I ask once again because you were not on the committee for the last time, and the Minister is not here today, and for the last time it was not, because she is not interested because she is objectively and subjectively not responsible, or if you have made such letters and recommendations to the public health authorities, you will also check it. Will you check if they are doing market research, or have they lowered the price of the material, will you check it out? There's a lot of work to do, but there aren't too many people in the Ministry, so you can do those things. There's been a lot of talk about overpayment. I am also interested in the fact that the Minister does not have any authority over corruption or the cessation of corruption, that she has done the maximum possible with common public procurement and so on; and then, in the end, she says that common public procurement will not mean lower prices, even higher in medicines. But who can guarantee that there will be no agreements in common public procurement and even higher prices? Then it would be almost better for hospitals to do it themselves. That, therefore, the Minister in the field of corruption does not have any powers. Until the parliamentary inquiry, it is very arrogant, with statements that this is not the work of Parliament. Here I agree with her, this is not the work of Parliament, this work should be done by the National Investigation Office, the SDT and the KPK. But in our loving country, it doesn't work, obviously not. If after three years of NPUs holding this in their hands, let's say there are other cases, then the NPU does absolutely nothing or has some conversations with the people involved. But nothing, no conclusions or even conclusions – everything was b. p. Public invitations were, they could apply, the cheapest bidder was chosen. And the case is closed. But when you go to look at the intestines, you see it's not like that. And the parliamentary investigator is doing a job that other institutions should have done, but the minister – pff, nothing. Once again, as I said earlier, before the parliamentary commission of inquiry, the doctor admits or pleads, there has been corruption. Nothing happens at that hospital. No criminal came to that hospital. The buyer from UKC Ljubljana said: Yes, we violated the law on public procurement. And what? The doctor said, "Yes, we violated the Public Procurement Act. And what? But nobody can hurt these people?Oh, my God! Also, the Minister, since this is in the field of health, should do something about it. And do not say that she is not responsible for this; that they are responsible institutions. Then let these institutions call the Prime Minister or someone, I don't know. They're saying yesterday he said there was no corruption, not that it wasn't done to reduce corruption. No one in Slovenia has ever sat down for this. No one in Slovenia has sat or been brought before a court today for this reason. Nobody! And until at least one who has publicly admitted that he has violated the law, that corrupt acts have occurred, even convicted and even sat down for a few years, this will be different. When one of the doctors and the buyers loses their job, it'll be different. No, these people are still sitting there, and they're salting everyone else's brains. And it's the minister's fault. As far as the frame-up is concerned. We've told you so many times, and I'll tell you again. UKC Ljubljana has a bad CEO. Bad, very bad. 25 million losses, and he says, "Let the state cover it." With our money, with taxpayers' money, with the money of the patients standing in the queues, in the waiting room for two and a half hours to come in because it was ordered at 10 a.m., and the turn comes at 12.15 a.m. And you're writing a new law that says 30 minutes. I can't wait. I can't wait for this law to be passed because I want to know how you're going to respond to these people and doctors. Did you write in there, and how long can I stay with the doctor? Did you still limit that? Because the doctors here will be the ones who will suffer for it again. The 25-million loss and the minister said it was because there were two million more since 2002. Two million from 2002! It's weird she hasn't found anything from 2004 to 2008. That's all we've been waiting for her to find 10 million there. Twenty-five million loss! From six to twenty-five million, but it doesn't blink with its eyes. After that meeting, it was funny to me, we discussed this at one of the meetings, and we learn the following evening that the Council of the Institute does not wish to see these measures proposed by the Director of UKC Ljubljana. Thank God, now I don't know what the reasons were, but what was written there. After what they were saying, there was nothing, no measures, no financial structure, nothing. Then what was written there, what did Mr. Digger put on the table of the institution's world? What about the date of the signature? If this plan did not contain anything to improve the deficit. Maribor, what's going on in Maribor? I'd like to ask for an answer from the Ministry. What's in there now? Is it an agreement for a new director or not? Last time the secretary said she'd make up her mind, she didn't know. What's in Brežice? What's going on out there? As far as I know, the principal has resigned, we know that from the public. Do we have a director there, or don't we? I ask you because the ministry is constantly saying that with good staff in leading places in public health institutions, it will also ensure better management of public health institutions, reduction of the deficit in public health institutions, greater quality, greater transparency and I do not know what is not. And the UKC doesn't have a director, the UKC Maribor doesn't have a director, Brežice doesn't have a director, the V.D. in the Cranian maternity ward doesn't have a salary. That's what I'm asking. I don't know. That's what it says. Topolšica, there were no contributions paid there because she told her colleague Bratušek what would happen if I was employed in a public office. [[...]] Because of the app that didn't work, we missed Friday to Monday, and we didn't pay any contributions. On Monday we received a call: Pay immediately. Monday! Here, however, one public institution is allowed not to pay any contributions. God knows how many more of these there are. And then the minister comes to Topolšica after a few days, and I can really imagine her with her purse - 700 grand, here you have her. Did they put a program on the table to fix these losses? Did they put the program on the table, what's it gonna do with that 700 grand? And that's not all the secretary's promise is, even more where she came from. What did she give to eat and drink; or to give people their wages, they pay their contributions? What's that money for? Why do we have to write questions to get this out of the minister? This must be public; we are also talking about this transparency. 700 thousand can be done; but you don't know what. Then go to the press and say: We will give 700 000 because the hospital or the director has made a plan, a plan of work, how will it continue to sanction. Not the way we go, but the way we go. I mean, it's like she's walking around with her purse and she's giving. Then we would combine Topolšica, which is minus, with a cell hospital, which is minus. I've already said that, and this is Dr. Cerar's economy. And minus negative is going to give you a plus as in mathematics; but it's not that kind of mathematics when kids learn, minus and minus that plus. Definitely not in hospitals because the cell director points out that we won't take the loser. Of course, who would want it. And that's why the secretary responded, not for that minus, but that this should be arranged systematically. How will this be done? Will regional hospitals work together, or will they team up to cover themselves? How are you gonna do that? And you're throwing the concessionaires out today. I'll add something later, so my colleagues can say something else, so they won't say I have my five minutes today. E-passengers, I'm going to say it again, but now I'm going to say it from the beginning, because there's a secretary with us who said that things will be resolved on April 10th. I understood as well as other patients; I think I called or called in these three days and talked about e-mails. And people think that when they get an e-mail, they're hired. But how did it look to me personally because I have three passports here, for me personally and for the children? This is what it looks like. You call a doctor because you don't need a checkup, but you say, "I need a guide for a specific specialist examination." Because you have a check-in and you need a new tip because it's expired. The doctor says, you don't even need a doctor, the nurse says, "No problem, we'll give you an e-mail." Okay. And I think that's it. And I say, "When I have an e-mail now, how will I know when I'm hired?" “Come to us first for a ticket, for a certificate.” “What note?” “We will give you a certificate of eTravel issued, and then you will call a specialist and arrange with him for the date.” Man falls on the floor. At least I have a little bit of writing and computer writing, and I say, "What if I don't have time to go to a specialist in Celje and drive there, sit there and wait?" “Then you can make a phone call.” I said that I had done this before; and she said: “Yes, there is no difference. Now we've got green and white certificates. You can order either by phone or by yourself; you can also go online and order with your doctor wherever you want.« That was two days ago, and this morning I went to get these receipts, and I agreed to let them keep me on the information so I wouldn't disturb the doctor, and I got the receipts. With these certificates, I sat down for the computer this morning and tried to e-order. And "e", I was surprised, you can't believe, I have a certificate, Sigen-CA, I also have knowledge from computer science, with a diploma; it doesn't work because the app doesn't work. Now what? Call a doctor. They're already pretty pissed off anyway. First of all, you don't get it; because I understand they're working and they don't have time to deal with it, but this is an e-order, my dear. Now there's one more thing. All three directions are for the same specialist. Two of them read as follows: For your health service – I will not read which – at the moment the issue was confirmed by an electronic order. That's what it says on two. Third, it says: For your health care at this time the issue of the certificate is not possible electronic ordering. Now I really don't know who's crazy here. I really don't know. Same specialist, same checkup for three people. I'm very sorry that the Minister isn't here because I'd ask if we could sit somewhere and she'd e-mail me. Really, really, because I don't know myself. And now I'm gonna call the doctor again after three more days to get him to pick me up, and eventually he's gonna piss me off so bad I'm gonna go there in person. And then there I'll hear how the Ministry didn't do it the way they thought it would. I didn't mean it either, but you told me that on April 10th it would all be over, that eTips will be arranged. We've got about a thousand hundred, and there's something else. There's 190, 180, and there's paper. These, my fellow citizens, are e-travelers. Why there's an "e" in front, I don't know. Because it's not an e-order. And by doing so, you will save the waiting lines, thus saving people from applying to 50 doctors, so that you will resolve that people will really come to the examination that they apply for. I've told you before that it's true, since no one will be able to sign up, the waiting periods will go down very quickly. Because before a man like this applies, he's worse than before. [[…]] I ask for an answer, because I did not get it from the Minister before, how much it cost e-Procurement and who made this application and who agreed with this e-ordering that it was going the way it was going. Like in stone age! E-ordering was my idea, but fix me, call a doctor or I'm in the exam, he says, "Let's order you there." He looked, he said, "Here is the shortest waiting time; if this is in Izola, Maribor, Celje, I don't know where you can go. If I don't agree, I won't go to Isola because I won't go there. Okay, then go to Celje, where you'll wait two years. All right, it's my own fault. But that's not how it works, because I just explained it to you. And I say the Minister is responsible for these matters. She claimed that e-ordering would solve things. But that waiting periods are artificially reduced, and that's probably what a lot of people tell you. And I have one more question. Additional programmes to reduce waiting periods 2017. Whether they have already put these matters out, who will manage these matters and whether all those who have received additional programmes to reduce waiting periods meet the conditions for carrying out this programme. Does everyone, once again, professionally, with the equipment meet the conditions with everything? Which of the concessionaires received an additional programme to shorten the waiting period for 2017? Which public agency received a programme to shorten the waiting period for 2017, which did not meet the plan last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u105	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare for the mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President! What colleague Jelka has just said today is very difficult to add in our entire debate, but certainly which of these things must be repeated. What she was saying now about e-ordering, I think it's absurd that this is a disgrace to the Ministry and also to the Minister. This is already one of the very important reasons and arguments that point to the fact that we made the right decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party when we made this recommendation. The second thing, Mr President, I was a little surprised earlier, and I apologize, is that you will finally say what you meant when you spoke of the revolution. I don't know what you mean by that. A colleague from the SD, who had previously discussed and escaped from the National Assembly, said that there should be no debate when it comes to such key topics as every citizen and citizen in our society, who is particularly concerned with each other. This was allowed in the position of the Group of Members to say by the representative of the Social Democrats, a socially sensitive party. Now let someone tell me who is sitting in this Parliament, and I also ask the Slovenian public what people Slovenian taxpayers and Slovenian voters vote in Parliament. I think that this has exceeded all the limits, indeed all the limits of good taste, to allow someone here to say that there should be no debate on such an important topic in the National Assembly. And that is those who say they are socially sensitive, a party to the Social Democrats. And then she says in a demonstration that she will leave this session and will not discuss further on this agenda item. My dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that citizens and citizens will make the right decision in the next elections and that such people will no longer be allowed through the doors of the national assembly. Never again. Because these people and those who think so do not work in the interests of these people, patients, and those who wait in the waiting lines; but they are obviously interested in taking a nice, peaceful ride somewhere now, for some lunch, dinner or whatever. I don't deny it to them. Absolutely not. We have invested a great deal of time in the Slovenian Democratic Party when we prepared these recommendations because we have argued them qualitatively enough; then no political party in this national assembly can afford and say that there should be no debate on such an important topic. Now I read again that Slovenian citizens and citizens will know why we are and what our recommendation is. In short, I will read only the first part: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to immediately suspend all those responsible in health care who have not prevented or even allowed corrupt and criminal offences in procurement, and those who have not prepared changes to health legislation and laws in a timely manner. Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc is certainly responsible for underestimating the situation and inappropriate conduct. Otherwise, we recommend that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, resign.” Here we wrote – we recommend. But today at the very beginning we also had the Health Act. We have observed how abnormally this law is prepared, how many comments there are to this law. The minister always claimed to be an excellent negotiator, to master things, to be stubborn, to talk; but she did not say that they were not listening and were obviously not hearing. Why don't they talk because nobody said that today, so I'm gonna say it now. Because this is very strongly linked to this point of the agenda and to its objective or subjective responsibility. The professional association of private doctors and dentists in Slovenia wrote: »The professional association of private doctors and dentists in Slovenia strongly opposes the proposal of the novel Law on Health Activities. The professional association of private doctors and dentists gives the strongest protest to the proposal for amendments to the Health Act approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 April 2017. In the proposal we do not see solutions that can objectively improve the quality and accessibility of health services for patients." Isn't that a fundamental question? Every law that is currently being submitted to the National Assembly and is being tabled by this Ministry should be written on the skin of patients who are waiting in waiting lines. And here they wrote it very clearly, explicitly. They also wrote: “We are convinced that the effect of the law will be exactly the opposite.” It is said that this ministry is proposing a law that will make the situation worse in the Slovenian health system. That's what they wrote, and that's what you need to read. Hereinafter, the Syndicate of Doctors of Family Medicine PRACTIK. Um, what they wrote, but here I'm talking about the profession, here no one can deny that anyone would say that I'm a layman who doesn't know the health system well enough to talk about the profession. But politically, this time I read what the experts said. And to me, this is crucial and very important in how I also decide as a politician in the National Assembly. And that should guide every policy sitting in here because we're not all doctors of medicine. See what they wrote: “In recent months we have been in the Syndicate of Doctors of Family Medicine PRACTIK. UM several times on the basis of professional and scientific evidence argued that you do not support the Health Act, which has recently received the support of the Government. Similarly, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Slovenian Medical Society, the Fides Union and the Professional Association of private doctors and dentists of Slovenia.« They also wrote: “The possible adoption of the law in such a form is unacceptable and we assure you that it will only cause further erosion of public health.” Further erosion of public health. And I am now asking the coalition Members and those here today in broad and broad terms how this will bring better solutions to patients and to the functioning of the health system. What do you answer to these experts? They wrote: "The waiting species will be extended before the current government's term of office expires." That's what the unions wrote. Mr Zorčič, I hope you do not laugh at me because you should laugh at yourself because you have defended what experts have always said to you that this is not the case. And I don't believe you're a doctor of medicine right now, I don't believe that; but maybe you are, maybe I'm wrong. Then we have the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. What did they write? I'm just gonna read one piece so I don't quote the entire material. “We are afraid that the situation in Slovenian health care will deteriorate in the absence of comments from doctors and experts in various fields.” Failure to take into account the comments made by these people or those organizations I have just spoken about will make the health situation worse. The Coalition and the Ministry have an interest that the health situation deteriorates, that waiting periods are prolonged, that people will wait for so many and so many more days in waiting lines and that many more people will die before they even get to a doctor. Clearly, this is the interest of this coalition and this ministry. But if that's normal, then I don't know what country I live in. And then maybe the word that the president was talking about, because people are going to have and people are going to have that I'm not going to say anything, full of suitcases. The mockery of our taxpayers has exceeded all the limits of good taste. Let me go on with what they wrote here: "The current amendment to the Health Act, because of its lack of coordination, brings bad solutions to which doctors are publicly warned. If the proposed Health Act is adopted, accessibility to health services will be reduced.” Access to health services for all inhabitants of Slovenia will be reduced. “The departure of doctors from Slovenia will be further encouraged.” This was written by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. Again, Your Honor, can anyone add anything else to this? And you who sit here in the coalition will support such a marriage. It doesn't matter what the profession says. Why did I read these things? Five or four months ago we talked and then the minister said, I think that was last November, we will prepare a quality health reform to improve the state of Slovenian health next year by not knowing how much percentage and everything will go in the right direction. And at that time, I pointed out to the Health Committee: Madam Minister, I predict that you will prepare certain documents, but those that will not be acceptable; which will not be acceptable to the profession, but even less to the patients. Such proposals, we do not need a solution in the National Assembly. Our patients don't expect that from us either. They expect us to look for solutions that will be written on our skin; not to do something, regardless of the consequences. Does that seem normal to you?Oh, my God! My dears, does this seem normal to you?Oh, my God! To me and the Slovenian Democratic Party, I tell you the truth, this does not seem normal. When we have proposed these recommendations, they relate mainly to three, four areas. One is, and I think it's the first one that has a lot of other things to do with it, that's the frame-up. The second is far more important, the failure to achieve a reduction in waiting times. The third thing is absolutely very important, and I think it's almost the most important thing, because all of these things are very important and they're connected, that's corruption. And let's say the fourth, poor business of health institutions. If I touch only the first one – the frame. I think 88 members of the boards of institutions have been replaced to achieve better results than before. Public institutions. And what happened? I'll tell you later. Just look at Mr. Kopač's example at the Ljubljana Clinical Center. The Lord was appointed there without the necessary documents that he needed, or without the tendering conditions that are set out in the invitation to tender which he should have fulfilled. They're gone. He did not meet the conditions he was supposed to meet and was nevertheless appointed Director of the Ljubljana Clinical Centre. And we then warned that things were not being respected as they should be if I were talking about procedure. And since it did not meet these conditions, the Minister should act because she had board members appointed there by the government in the institution, through which she pursues her policy. The secretary didn't give any instructions or anything. Or I'd call, and I'd say he can't go like this. That's not normal. That's not how you do it. And those to recall and also to recall Mr Kopač – this would be the right way and a real indication that the Minister is serious about doing things according to some rules, some rules and some legislation. And then, remember, we have the case of Mrs. Chokl, V.D. Director. What did she say on the committee, and what happened after that? It's all been quiet. Mrs Chokl is nowhere to be seen, she probably got a side function anywhere, because she warned about certain things that exceeded all the limits because she said there was systemic corruption in the health system. And what happened? Isn't there a subjective or objective minister responsible for nothing happening? We should at least get a report, name a commission, something like that to see at the end, what's in it. And at least the National Assembly or the Health Committee would deserve to be familiar with this information. But nothing happened again! And she said that it was a very big problem, that it was even some connection between such and different companies, even abroad. And so on and so forth. Speaking of corruption, I don't think it's necessary to list the cases that we have today highlighted by colleague Jelka, who was pointed out by colleague Nada today. I will not focus particularly on these things, although I think this is one of the key and fundamental issues. And those with the main word in this story when it comes to this health problem are still the same today. With the same connections, with the same people. And nothing like my colleague said has happened in this area. Nothing, none of them are closed, none of them have been brought before the hand of justice. We have all the organs that they say work, I don't know how successful, but what the results are. What are the results, I wonder. Nothing happened in this area. Waiting years. I don't know how much time I have left. I'm sorry. I think it's still right to introduce you to some waiting periods at least once again. The waiting periods, that is clear, have been extended in this mandate. And the secretary said she'd do anything to shorten it. But they didn't. Only a few of these are listed by the National Institute for Public Health, March 2017 report: operation of the foot finger with an average waiting period of 811 days; surgery of the neck veins with an average waiting period of 591 days; intervention on the ears and mastoid with an average waiting period of 545 days; operation of the thyroid with an average waiting period of 441 days; other peripheral scar surgery with an average waiting period of 422 days; intervention and surgery of the nose and the probative cavity with an average waiting period of 337 days; rheumatological outpatient with an average waiting period of 336 days and so on. Again, we ask ourselves who is responsible for this. Are those who now have scissors and linen in their hands responsible, or are others responsible? He is definitely responsible for having scissors and canvas in his hands, and this is the ministry and this government; and also the coalition, because it does not press enough on the ministry. Poor business of public institutions. I do not think that this should be highlighted because it is known exactly what loss was made by the Ljubljana Clinical Center. Maybe that's all there is to information. Last year's loss in 22 health institutions, worrying, poor hospital liquidity, UKC Ljubljana under Kopač with a record 25 million losses. I hope you understand now why we have made recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party and why we have proposed what we have proposed. I hope that you have understood our message, which I believe is more than objective and more than necessary. And it's up to you to react. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, you have full support when it comes to clarifying this issue in health care and once we really establish the conditions for health care to function normally; above all, to shorten waiting periods for those people and patients who are waiting for such and other diseases, because these waiting days can also cause them to lose their lives, which is extremely unacceptable and irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u107	Before I give my word forward that that word of revolution will not hang in the air, I will still explain to you what I meant to her. According to the business practice that is in this House, and according to the rules of procedure, I cannot stop any matter, even if it is unconstitutional, because I cannot know whether it will eventually be adopted or not. Even if it's objective and subjective, I even have to sign it. You know very well that this belongs to this function, which is why I'm not involved in this matter. The revolution was what was contrary to it. Is that clear enough? You won't have to tweet anymore? Okay. [[advertising from the hall]] I see, I see. Every explanation has new ideas, yes, no problem. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Prepare Mrs Eva Irgle and Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry and others present! I am very fond of the debates on health because I think that any debate can clear up certain facts and bring something good; if not another, also some new knowledge. I am therefore somehow sorry that fellow Members of the Social Democrats have given up the debate, but I hope that they are still monitoring what is going on here. Due to limited time for discussion, only three areas would be affected – the problem of corruption, waiting types and losses in public health institutions. In particular, I would like to highlight some of the reasons for the problems mentioned. The fact is that health policy itself has caused anomalies in the system and doctors are responding to them in line with expectations. Controls and penal policy alone will not eliminate the anomalies that are detected. Appropriate changes, including legal changes, are needed to remove conflicts of interest from the health system, namely those interests that are at the expense of all of us, and particularly those of us who are sick. It is a very sensitive question of how an individual acts in a health system where individuals — health care providers, suppliers of medicines and medical equipment — are the ones who adapt their behaviour to the environment created by the Ministry of Health and Government this time. The State is therefore responsible for setting up a health system so that it does not contain negative incentives that may be harmful to patients’ health. If we look at what is going on with funding, we can see that the government's public health system has also deteriorated in the last twenty years by reducing public health funds. 7 % of gross social product was public expenditure on health in 1992 and last year was only 6.02 % of gross social product. Public health funds have been declining over the years, health resources have fallen significantly over these years, despite the growing costs of medicines and new technologies, in order to require new investments in health infrastructure, in order to increase public servants' salaries and old people, all of which means the need for significantly greater public health funding than the current ones. If I look at the comparison of how public funds are, public spending by purchasing power per capita – in 2014 in Slovenia they cost thousands of €433 per capita. Austria has paid twice the cost per capita for its public health – €2,000,884. Sweden, for example, has paid 3,000 295 euros. This is said to actually have a very poor public health system, financially malnourished; and I can therefore say that sometimes I just wonder how public health institutions have survived at all and are able to produce such quality indicators as they are currently producing. No one is satisfied with the 20.5 million losses highlighted on page 17 of the proposal for a recommendation that we are considering today. It is, however, a fact that, despite this poverty, we can now see what I have already said today that this share is almost lost in the amount of money we still give to public health, that is, two billion and a half euros. If we say that this should not be the reason to say that public health is in crisis just because of the data that 20.5 million euros has been lost, then we can call it unacceptable that there are also long waiting periods in this healthcare system. These are the times that threaten people's health and also people's lives. This is certainly not acceptable because in each system it is necessary to take care of those who are most at risk. At the same time, I have observed that even in the proposal for recommendations, and sometimes in all debates, those of our citizens who do not have the right to stand in line. Every day we have about 24,000 of these citizens. These are those persons who, due to bureaucratic procedures carried out at the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, do not have the right to have access to compulsory health insurance at all; they are then those who are socially, economically at risk and can only access voluntary health clinics. Their treatment depends only on the voluntary outpatients we have in Slovenia; and this is certainly a great disgrace to Slovenian health care, which should be eliminated. Of course, there is no excuse for corruption. It's everywhere, the only question is whether or not we're ready to face it. And today we have already talked about mixing public and private health activities, which is one of the reasons why corruption occurs, which I am also facing as a member of the Commission and also as President of the Commission dealing with abuses in the Slovenian public system in purchasing vascular resistors. I would like to point out that many medical abnormalities are caused by a mix of public and private health activities, as well as commercialization of health care, greed for profits or profits. As with doctors, public servants, concessionaires, i.e. doctors who perform public service, are also allowed to work simultaneously in the public service and to carry out health activities in private self-paid clinics, i.e. in profitable companies. This allows for negative incentives. This is also stated in the professional literature, we are faced with it ourselves, and also on page 17 of the recommendation, we find a warning that waiting times are created artificially. This forces the patient to seek help in a self-paid infirmary. It is simply that if you create conditions for these negative incentives, some simply take advantage of them; those who are ethical and moral enough do not. But in every society there are so many and so many different ones, and this also becomes the reason for longer waiting types as necessary, as well as for so-called abuse of patients in the public service. Thus, it is noted that patients are really abused to travel to their own self-paid infirmary and that it is possible to create artificial waiting lines to direct patients to their own self-paid infirmary. Use of time in the public service for private patients is also possible. There is also widespread savings in patients in laboratory tests. The Court of Auditors found, years ago, in the review of the health situation I will have to finish and the second time more. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u109	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Ms Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mr Ivan Prelog should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At the previous point, my fellow Members argued very well why we will not support the Health Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And when I have closely followed the debate, today I can say that it is actually a step backwards or a few steps back, rather than finally moving forward in the health field. With this law, which we have dealt with earlier than we can see, we especially hoard young doctors who want to design a vital professional path. If we look a little bit wider at the health system problem, because this is today's agenda item, I personally see six key health problems in particular. The first is that Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, was unable to implement any key health legislation in her mandate. I am not talking here about some cosmetic corrections that have been regularly brought to this national assembly, which we are accustomed to with another minister, that is, the Minister of Justice, Mr Goran Klemenčič. In short, there is no health reform, as there is no judicial reform. And then we expect that the health system will work, that it will work, that waiting species will be shorter, that people will be satisfied. We also expect the rule of law to work and thus the rule of law. Only if the rule of law works, if we do have a rule of law and a transparent and transparent system in the field of justice and health, but elsewhere, then we expect things to be better managed on their own. They won't, respectable colleagues and colleagues. I personally find it very disturbing that today, at this point in the agenda, which is very important for every citizen in this country, there is no Minister of Health. She's not on the Health Committee anymore. Then what does this minister do? She is not present at the working bodies when we consider her agenda items, she is not present at the meeting of the National Assembly when we consider topics that belong to and fall under her heading; and finally, the Minister says that corruption in health is not a problem. What does this minister actually do? I see that the Minister has no problem at all, and that is why nothing changes in the health system, because the relationship is the same as we see it today and she has shown it to us in a transparent, transparent and very visual way by not being present today at this point. The first key problem with our health care is that there is no reform of the health system. Another key problem is bureaucracy in the health system. It is everyone who sits here in the National Assembly who is surely faced with personal matters, but also, with doctors, is in some kind of communication, facing them. They tell themselves that they spend more time on bureaucratic procedures than on patients themselves. But isn't this the key mission of every doctor? To deal with a patient, not to devote most of his time to bureaucratic procedures and, I would say, to bureaucrats, even though we went to eTravel. Before that, my colleague Jelka Godec gave a very good explanation. What kind of e-mails are these if there's five times more trouble than before?Oh, my God! The system has to be completed and once it's in place, it has to work. I understand, not in a week, but now it could be working, because that was the point, so at least I understood. The third thing that is crucial to the health problem is corruption; but corruption is said by the Minister that corruption in health is not a problem. How can the Minister of Health say that if we know that we have overpaid venous braces? It's a good thing we have an investigative committee working on this. If we didn't have it, believe me, we wouldn't be talking about health corruption today. And we wouldn't be talking about a big bank hole if there wasn't an investigative commission run by Angie Logar. The Slovenian Democratic Party is the one who informs you, citizens and citizens of what is actually going on, both in the banking system, where an immeasurable dimension has been robbed; and what is happening in the field of health. This would also be expected from other parties if they were, of course, responsible. In particular, from the largest coalition party – a modern centre that is based on high ethical and moral standards. What is one of the foundations of ethics and morality? Also by conducting transparent procedures and acting when you realize that corruption is happening. But the Minister of Health says that there is no corruption and that this is not a problem of the health system. How am I supposed to trust a minister like that? Instead of protecting the health system by showing what transparency means and demanding accountability, he says that corruption, once again, is not a problem. What does the minister say about irregularities in the purchase of medical equipment and medicines? Apparently, this is normal for a minister and, once again, transparent. From corruption to the 4th key health problem, and this is not taking responsibility for the mistakes made. And here are the doctors. Let's just look at heart surgery. I'm sure most doctors are very good. I had a hard time in my family, a bad story, and if the doctors didn't help at the time, today this person would be gone. And that's why I respect every doctor. Everyone. But when some irregularities are proved, some responsibility must also be taken. We have a similar problem in the judicial system – failure to accept responsibility. That's just the way it is now. We also have to pay people in our lives for some mistakes. This is the case, especially if we are talking about things like corruption, when someone at the expense of all of us — those we give to the health care department — takes advantage of a number of overpaid things, then this is not a legal state for me, it is not a just state for me, and at least for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who deserve at least the best. The fifth key problem of Slovenian health care, which I personally see, is the involvement of politics in the professional work of the healthcare profession. Let me illustrate the case. Madam Minister, when it came to the question of Mr Kenda, she called at the clinical centre and demanded that Mr Kenda remain in position; despite the fact that the profession felt otherwise. What else does that mean than meddling politics in professional work?Oh, my God! This is the involvement of policy in professional work and we all know from the history of parliamentaryism how such matters end. Not good. Still, I expected us to learn something from past mistakes. And the last point, which is a key issue of Slovenian health, are waiting times, waiting types. Some 260 thousand people or more are in a waiting line and everyone has someone inside their own family who is waiting and waiting and waiting and suffering and hurting. But under this minister, corruption is not a problem, but waiting days are not a problem. Why can we say that peacefully? Because under its ministry, they increased by 30%. I think the minister's got some serious priority issues. I expect the coalition to listen to the recommendations once and for all, as well as the decisions we make on the home work committees. As far as I know, not a single decision has been taken on the Health Committee, but that is why we are not moving anywhere. In the end, I'll be a little cynical, I will be, but you deserve it, you really deserve it. Too bad there's no Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar. You're acting extremely arrogant, as if nothing could happen to you, I'm talking about the whole government; in fact, everything is in disarray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u111	Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Ivan Prelog and Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u112	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, all present! The proposal for recommendations that we are considering today lists the outdated organisation of health institutions, poor quality control, staffing and corruption in public institutions, funding and waiting periods; that there are no announced changes in health care to be delayed according to the Government's normative programme. In addition, I would add a finding by the Legislative and Legal Service that the content of these recommendations and the purpose of determining the responsibility of the Minister may be the subject of interpretation, since the citation of specific and subjective responsibilities concerns only the position of the Minister. So much for a call. We have been reading about these problems, listening, looking at media contributions for many years, from about the 1990 ’ s. And these bad practices and the absence of appropriate legal changes have been dragged from the government into the government. The medical system has become increasingly severe. All the governments so far did not want to do so, either knew it or were able to address it properly. The situation for healthcare professionals and doctors has also deteriorated. We monitor how relationships in health teams deteriorate and indirectly affect the quality of services and the course of treatment. This government and the minister set themselves the basic objective of stopping this negative spiral and gradually redirecting it towards improvements towards the ultimate goal of ensuring that citizens have access to health services under the same conditions, at the same time and that we receive quality services. In recent years, I myself have experienced what it means to wait for an intervention; and how I have experienced it, and how it has affected my daily life. Quality of service, self-sacrifice, work, the relationship between doctors and medical personnel is still at a high level. Therefore, I believe that we must urgently stop the disease of the health system, stop now because it is still time, because they are such quality services of the heart, the essence that we need to preserve and give him all the systemic conditions so that medical personnel and doctors can continue to work well, apply their knowledge, innovation for the benefit of all of us – citizens and patients. Accessibility and quality of services is the real goal. To reach it, it seems to me that we have a thousand kilometers long way to go; and we must take the first steps to do so too. I think the government has already begun to move, perhaps with a little delay, but a step. It is now continuing to move on with three important laws, namely the Health Activity Act, the Patient's Rights Act and the Health Insurance and Health Act. Then there are important laws on governance and management and long-term care. When I am involved in the consideration of this legislation, I see how each parliamentary group would like to implement its concept in legislation. The right political half is more rooting for more private operators and connections with concessionaires, and we believe that we need to provide patients with as many publicly available health care as possible, in which private programmes and services can be included, so that there is as little interference between public and private as possible or that they do not live on a public account; but that they work successfully and live on their own account and on the basis of transparent contracts. Since the government is investing these laws and will invest them and will be at first reading, we have every opportunity to contribute to the basic objective of obtaining accessible and quality services for citizens on equal terms. Now is the time, and now it's time to stop this spiral that's still going in the negative direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u113	Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! In this mandate, we talk a lot about corruption, especially in the field of health, which is good, as this reveals practices that have been generated for many years. The field of public procurement in Slovenia has been regulated by law for almost 20 years, hospitals have been purchasing medicines and medical supplies, and they are committed to strict compliance with public procurement rules. So the problem is not new. The existence of corruption risks has been present in Slovenia for a long time, and corruption itself existed in all the mandates of previous governments. In this mandate, the Government and the Ministry of Health have approached the problem systematically, systematically, economically and on the basis of a clear and communication position and the objective of zero tolerance to corruption. The planned measures are implemented, are linked to the procurement and management of medical equipment for public health institutions, hospitals and the procurement of medicines and medical devices in hospitals. The key elements for reducing corruption risks, transparent and rational use of public funds and, in this context, the proper implementation of public procurement are: standardisation, central or common procurement and thorough prior market verification. During this term of office, the Government has taken a number of measures that have a direct impact on the flow of healthcare supplies, with the Ministry pointing out: strengthening the responsibility of the hospital procurement management, introducing controls, establishing medical and technical equipment bases and standardising or establishing uniform technical specifications for identical articles. In addition, the implementation of the common procurement for all items of medical and technical devices which prove that this is justified in terms of the purpose of the device, the price, the necessary purchase quantity, the situation on the market and the potential corruption risk. Finally, the involvement of medical or health personnel, medical and technical personnel, in the procurement process during the needs-forming phase. Finally, let me express my legitimate expectation, hope and desire that the work of the commission of inquiry under the leadership of Mrs Godec's distinguished colleague will lead to an epilogue which will allow non-discriminatory sanctioning of corruption in health. This should also be a very clear warning to all those who would dare to act corruptly in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u115	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. When we talk about health and the health of our people, we need to talk about several aspects or multiple angles. The first thing is, if we look at finance and from a financial point of view, then we can figure out the following facts. The Health Insurance Service pays for health care and the Health Insurance Service pays for everything medical staff and doctors do to improve the patient’s health. And I just have to say in person that I have experience doing good, which means it's not the main problem with doctors and health personnel. They do good, they do professional, they do nice. But it is true that for someone to get to a doctor, he can wait a very long time. He can wait a very long time. We have statistics, I think very high-quality statistics on waiting periods. And you can wait a year. You can wait even more, two years, three years. Unfortunately, though, we do not have statistics on whether the health situation is getting worse or worse for those waiting. I mean, most of these people are getting worse. Because the medical condition is getting worse, they probably die before they do. And here's the moral problem, here's the moral problem, and here's the ethical, moral, health and ethical issue, in short, everything that the biggest coalition party has put in its first place. We've talked about morality and ethics a lot. Morals and ethics can be discussed in all areas and we have spoken in all areas, we have also warned about this for three years, and today I will no longer talk about morality and ethics, because I think that there is no point in talking about morality and ethics to my colleagues and colleagues from the Modern Centre Party, because I don't think they understand it. I think after three years it's enough, and I don't think they understand. Because if we understood then we would first make health solutions, first we would propose health measures, first we would do something to reduce waiting times and get people to health services faster. It makes no sense to talk to people who don't understand morality and ethics, although they have it in the first place, it makes no sense, we get tired, it doesn't matter anymore. And it doesn't just make sense to talk about morality and ethics in health, but the result is more disease, more mortality and so on, not because of health personnel, not because of doctors, but because of the organization itself. I think that the organisation of all healthcare activities depends not only on the rules, but also on the management and management of all healthcare activities. And there may have been desires, there may have been attempts to improve, but more or less unsuccessful, or at least the results have not yet been seen. They are not visible in reducing waiting periods, since people do not care when they go to work. People are more interested in whether waiting periods have diminished or waiting periods have not diminished. I don't think it matters here, either, whether you'll pass five more laws that you've just announced. These laws mean nothing in themselves. They won't mean anything. The waiting times will not diminish because of these laws. If these laws, even if good solutions are in these laws, do not come into practice if these solutions do not actually reach people and if these solutions are not written for people; you do not make laws to make public health more public, in order to be a more private health care, in order to make more concessionaires, in order to make less concessionaires; this is all the other thing. Laws are designed to ensure that people have better services, to be healthier, to get faster access to these services, and to be of better quality. Everything else is secondary. The first is to provide quality services and then the issue of concessions, private, public and so on. And today, many of my colleagues and colleagues have said that the right side is more for private health, but we are more for public health to make public health services available to all. Where is it available, how many years, how many days? I don't care, and it probably doesn't matter to the patient whether he goes to the private infirmary or goes to the concessionaire or goes to the public. He wants to have a favor. That's the point, and that's how I see it. And then we can talk about ethical, moral and so forth standards. The next question is money. If I mention the Commission for the supervision of public finances, she has often also talked about money in health care. But it's about the next thing. The State, the government, whatever government is collecting a contribution to health insurance, and this contribution covers most of the medical material, equipment and services, wages and so on. And if you buy a hospital, say the University Clinical Center Ljubljana or the University Clinical Centre Maribor some equipment, some material, a colleague Godec has an investigative commission on vein resistors, if these are three times more expensive than in Finland, what will actually happen? Given that we have limited money, as far as it's concerned, less money will be left for services. And since there will be less money left for services, the health insurance company will not be able to pay all these services as quickly as possible, or it will set some criteria. These criteria are likely to be professionally, possibly ethically, morally problematic or pointless, such as the fact that one doctor should spend 7 minutes on an average patient. Then there's gonna be something wrong here. If this equipment is purchased three times, because it can be three times cheaper, then there will also be more money for health care, the criteria will be different and so on. And in this health care, it has happened that prices are first set, three times higher than in Europe, in more developed countries than we are; and then what remains is split between wages, services and so on. And here's the thing. Interests that those who acquire this equipment do not lose their positions not lose such and such margins, which are not calculated as a percentage, but in hundreds of percent. It can be defined as either times 3, or times 4, or times 5; there is no thing here 10, 15, 20, 30 percent. And these interests now also pressure lawmakers to stay the way they were; or to improve their position; but at the expense of the patient. At the end of the day, the patient is the one who will bear the consequences of buying equipment too expensive. And then there's corruption in the area of all purchases, including medicines, pharmacies and so on. At one of the last meetings, we discussed pharmacy activities on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. There they simply said, ladies and gentlemen, that they cannot comply with the Public Procurement Act. It's not working and they haven't done it in ten years. And that's how the system goes. And why would I do that now? Then one Ministry of Public Administration said: No, you have to respect this law, you have to follow these provisions, we have already written to you not how many times, how many times do you follow these provisions on public procurement, you have instructions on websites, you have already asked us a hundred times, give again. At the same meeting, the Ministry of Health said that this was not possible. This has happened in the National Assembly of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, because the government does not have a uniform opinion on how to apply the procurement provision to pharmacy activities. It's coming this way. We can take no decisions on how many Commissions' reporting to the National Assembly, but relatively little happens. They can also report. The question is what happens in practice. We do not take decisions and we commit governments to formally respond to us administratively. That's the secondary meaning. It is essential that this improves the situation in health care, in the procurement of material, in the procurement of equipment, in order to improve the situation in the organisation. And here we are in a vicious circle, but this government in this area has not done, I see no results, with the kindness of nurses, doctors, doctors, other staff. She didn't make that jump. We can rightly ask ourselves here why. I'm not gonna tell you how long it's been for individual specialists. Hundreds of days, hundreds of days. And then you know that in prolonging or shortening your life. How ethical the country is to these patients, how to care for them, how to relieve their pain. But the circle is closed here. You will now be able to abolish additional health insurance, which is paid for around €360 per year. 360 euros a year, that's not a small amount of money. Some people have this kind of monthly income. That's not a little money. But now it's going to get a little bit edgy, maybe not just the same. But now it's going to pay a little more and it's going to go inside. Ladies and gentlemen, all right, let's make more money, but will the waiting period be reduced?Oh, my God! Are people going to be in the first place? Will they get help sooner? I don't see it. I think we can get hundreds of millions more into the health department, but it hasn't been said anything will get better. Then we ask ourselves why and what it is now that is wrong. With nice doctors, nice staff, nice nurses. There's probably something wrong with the Ministry that's supposed to organise it, which writes such regulations that can also affect, or this government, the Department of Health Insurance. And who's in the Ministry? Minister. There's a Chief Minister at the Ministry. Only the President of the Government is above it. Once again, it works for people. Don't make rules for regulations. Work to reduce waiting types, so that people can get emergency medical care first. I wouldn’t really talk today about some of the events in the National Assembly, how much time is waiting for first aid. It was said that this was very fast, I don't know how many minutes. Ten minutes. We're ten minutes away. Away from ten minutes. Since this has not been done in three years, the conclusions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are fully justified, as we are talking about. I think there's some responsibility to be taken here. It is also important to tell people that these five regulations, which were previously listed, will not improve the health activity law, the patient's rights and so on. That's why I support these conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Branko Zorman. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I will express my disappointment, like my colleagues, at the fact that she is not a minister. She was present before, she did not talk; but now that the point talking about corruption, about staffing, about what is the original jurisdiction of every executive, she has simply fled. Not only is she not here and she's listening, but she just ran away. The second disappointment is that none of the teams that are here on behalf of the government has spoken a single word. Not a word. We note this almost every time we have a point on the agenda, either the government, which was in the previous case, or the opposition, most ministers do not speak at all. And then, when it's all over, they go to school for a department, they go to college, they go to college. This is a disaster, the profession does not trust us, Members who are not experts in this field, nor confront opinions; not at political or professional level, if I say very simply. None. Mr Vice-President, it is absolutely unnecessary for the government to send three people here to sit here, waste time and watch us, Members of the debate. They smile at each other, so ironic. Time goes, effort goes, but nothing happens. This is humiliating for those who have drawn up the point, but shameful for those who are experts, they do not even hope to answer the debate of Members. Not to answer, not to explain, not to comment. That's it. Basically, I'm only going to touch one topic, that's corruption. Here I would like to say that the issue of health corruption concerns a very narrow range of people at the top of the health pyramid. It's a very narrow layer of people. They would be guilty if they said that in all public health care — most of them in one way or another in the field network of institutions — were involved or suspected of being involved or that they were being debated. This debate on corruption concerns an extremely narrow circle of people, as can be seen also from the work of the Commission of Inquiry investigating the matter. Only the top of the pyramid in individual areas is directly involved in this. Given that we know that you know this, I am surprised that so far nothing has happened in this area after two and a half years and before. All the same people as were the subject of an investigation committee are still where they were, even though they said a lot of things. All these people who were on the investigative committee are probably also subject to all the data by the investigative authorities. Probably. Probably a lot more information than an investigative commission that only one small segment is investigating, and nothing happens again. We wonder why nothing happens if 20, 30 investigators, police officers, prosecutors can be activated and so on for an anonymous application to say a birdhouse in a garden. There was no problem that the team gathered, some marks, met people who participated in this investigation and so on, and it was a birdhouse. In this case, when it comes to capital amounts, enormous amounts, nothing happens at all. When representatives of the High Court of Investigation come to the National Assembly, they act like I'm not saying as ignorant as you almost can't. If I go back to the investigative committee. In just a few years, for example ten years, one company supplied a small segment for about 190 million euro in equipment or devices, stents. According to what has been found in the investigative committee, overpayments were five and multiple, from 5 to 10 times, that means that only about 160 million euros went out of this system. The real price of the material supplied is about 20 million or 30 million, and 160 million euros was overpaid only on veins or on supplies supplied by Mark Medical. Now I'm going to ask you how many heart surgeries, how many coronary procedures could we do for this money, if we know how much an average heart operation costs, if we know how much a coronary or some other procedure costs. Overpayments are enormous, and that doesn't move anyone. They're not moving anyone. You're talking about there's no money in health. In health care, where you tolerate such things, there is too much money. Too much money. Heart support, what's under investigation, is just one small segment of health care, and I don't know if that's one thousandth of what's going on in health. It's a, I don't know, 4-fold, 5-fold, 10-fold overpayment on one of the materials needed in this operation. You know, it's no wonder there's no service, because now we have doctors who can't perform surgery because there's no money to intervene, and they come to work instead of working. The money that was used for surgical interventions flew out of health care to those involved in chaining the supply chain. At each phase of the promotion, we fly about 20% of the money out and eventually get these huge overpayments. That's what's going on. I must say that I am very surprised that you are now talking only about how the levels of contribution will be improved, but no one is dealing with this problem. Until this corrupt part of health care is cleared, until then, every debate on the contribution rate, the additional funds for additional interventions is irrelevant, unnecessary. Because it's about stolen money from health care, and I don't know if I take it now, at least a third of the annual quota that the insurance company has. At least a third of that money goes missing if we take the base of the venous cord. And now we're wondering why there are waiting periods. Because there's no money for some real operation, because five times too expensive material has been brought for one operation and five times too expensive for hips, and five times too expensive for me not to know which thing, for longets and so on. I think it is necessary to take this matter seriously, to try here, to take responsibility, to have the executive power exclusively to do what I'm talking about – to make matters clean, to regulate matters, to solve problems where they are, to act where they need to. Not that it's the Ministry's and the Minister's and the Prime Minister's job to cover the pigs. That's actually the main problem. In view of the fact that this is our only proposal for a recommendation that we have made, we have refused to discuss the fact that we recommend to the Government and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to immediately suspend all those responsible in the health sector who have not prevented or even allowed corruption and crime in procurement, and those who have not prepared changes to health legislation and laws in a timely manner. [[…]] So that's what we're proposing. Since the Government opposes this in its opinion because the coalition has summarized this opinion and rejected this recommendation, it is not possible to explain this in any other way than to support corruption and crimes in the health sector. There's no other explanation for that. You can't. If you can explain it differently at the Ministry, if the President of the Government can explain it differently, well, that's not possible. Do not support such a friendly decision that the Government could use to solve health problems. So what are you doing? You are an integral part of the health corruption pyramid, the Ministry supports, the government supports, the coalition in the National Assembly supports this. And then you ask yourself, and you tell history what didn't happen. Until these matters were discovered to be happening, until then certain measures and steps and decisions could not be taken. We know that now, but nothing happens. The main guardian for these things to continue to take place in a corrupt way, in which crimes are committed, is the Ministry, the Minister and the Government, with strong support in the National Assembly, in all coalition parties. And when you find that there is no money for any pensions, for what general scholarships or general children’s allowance – this money is, as much as you want, only in health care. You can cover all operations, all subsidies, all social affairs and so on. Everything can only be covered by what's here. And just like the health care area was set up to do nothing, so you set the second track exactly the same. A hundred percent overpayment in advance. If the coalition in the National Assembly supports this, then in these cases it is State corruption, there is nothing else. The state, government, power, executive power is the one that supports corruption, and therefore nothing can be done in this area. The fact that you rejected such a recommendation is a signal to the investigating authorities not to do anything. This means that they too have all the necessary protection to do nothing. I find it very unusual, even very unfair, that people who have nothing to prove to be anonymous are being persecuted, and the entire headquarters are doing so. For those for whom there are all documents, testimonies and so on, things are simply standing in the drawer and waiting for the waiting period to end in this case too, so that nothing will happen, that the process will not become obsolete. In addition, what makes such things possible is the staffing. You know, if you put people who don't even hope to step in front of a camera and say anything, then it's clear that nothing will change there, that the person who's set up there is there to keep it going. After an effective work in the UKC, you have now shown an even greater loss than it was. Instead of being rehabilitated, instead of correcting the flaws and so on, the loss has only increased. But it is not surprising that if you do not eliminate overpayments, five times, seven times, ten times overpayments, it is logical that the material costs will always be enormously high for what you need, and that you will not be able to perform completely any operation. In conclusion, the only thing I can find out is that we have a systemic problem with us. We have a problem that policy, which has a majority in this National Assembly, covers all the irregularities that occur in health care as well as in other systems, not just in health care. As long as there is some serious will, some political will for anything to change in this area, we will only talk about the waiting types that result, we will only talk about the premature deaths that are the result of all of this, and we will talk about all of the defective equipment, inaccessibility and so on. And, of course, about cutting down institutions, services, accessibility in the countryside. The fact that certain things in the countryside are being reduced, rationalised, is now the most appropriate thing, you say, and so on. In short, the key problem is that in an area that collects the most money and where all this money goes into private hands – to understand ourselves, it does not remain in the public system, but goes into a private system without a fault and without benefit – you support it. If we had concessions in this area, if privates could do so, we would not be dealing with this problem here today. This influx, this translation, these places, these systemic problems would not be. It will be difficult for someone to convince me that you will find a medical concessionaire who will go seven times as expensive to buy, in fact, the same material as the neighbouring countries, and will pay us seven times more. You wouldn't be able to do that. Neither would you buy from the same bakery, from the same manufacturer, baked bread in that store where it's seven times more expensive than the one that has a normal price. The same applies to operations, the same applies to the supply of material and so on. All classifications are the same, all the quality of the materials we deal with are the same, compared with the same materials, the same wall of the same manufacturer, and the differences are the same as I said earlier, seven times, five times, three times. You know, if you can behave at home, if you're not going to buy the same thing to a neighbor, where it's five times more expensive, it probably applies to the public health system. Such overemphasis on public health and other public matters simply means that you support corruption. This is the source for those who are rich in these coefficients, factors in the supply of material. It's nothing else. In public health, it's for that chain that's at the top, that's what it does, that's its model, its concept, and until it collapses, we won't even have good public health. I'm talking about appropriate waiting periods and appropriate services. Anyway, whoever's moving now is a key health issue. Until this is resolved, all the other steps, all that we're dealing with right now, with the Health Act and some other, totally lame stuff, and the Pharmacy Act is a completely lame thing. The key thing lies in this part of beating, throwing large sums of money at the personal wealth of those involved, but not getting for this money what it is intended to do, is to say timely, adequate health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor in the general part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's all true. Everything I have said in the presentation of our Group's position is true. And it is true that the handling of this recommendation today should not at all be because it is, because I will use the words used earlier by my colleague, disgracefully and humiliatingly prepared. And it's from a party that's supposed to be considered a tradition. To make a recommendation that is essentially an interpolation, you call it a recommendation, you already know why you called it that, then it is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure and is, as we have already said, inconsistent with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You always have the opportunity to collect signatures, file an interpolation and then we can talk about the content here. Today, I will not talk about the content at this point because there has been a lot of talk, far from being relevant, but, given the document that has been submitted, we should not even talk about it. But there's only one thing I'd like to point out. I've heard many times that you support corruption, the government supports corruption, the Ministry of Corruption. I don't know what the government, the Ministry, supports, supports corruption. With what? With all these measures that have been taken? If they weren't sufficient, that's probably relative, I'd agree with that. These double criteria No number of meetings have already been mentioned on the subject of some topics originating from UKC Ljubljana. [[…]] You have not referred to the UKC Maribor topic as objective fighters, where your prominent member, your candidate for mayor, was a longtime director. For years, decades, and more, he was the director. Among other things, I am a member of the vascular resistance commission, and I was present at a meeting because it was public, because there was no secret because there was a television broadcast that did not say what kind of corruption was happening there only in this area. But we didn't have a meeting on UKC Maribor. Then the lack of personnel, other acquisitions and all that from this same institution. Where our people are, we look away — or are we not? Where the others are, then put a shovel on them. I'm not saying there's been a lot of irregularities, a lot of them are being discovered, thank God they're breaking up with these practices, just like I said at the previous point, I want to see when someone will end up paying for it. He paid in the sense that he'd end up being convicted and he'd go to jail. I'm afraid we're not going to find political responsibilities here. Because I'm not going to discuss the content, I'm going to finish here. In short, once again, you have drawn up this report as an interpretation against the Minister of Health or follow-up, otherwise you recommend that the President of the Government withdraw himself to draw up an interpretation, give the people involved the opportunity to respond to you with a substantive explanation, and then we can have a very long and in-depth thematic debate here. On the recommendation you made, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will get the word of a representative of the Government and of the proposer. Here you are, Dr. Ana Medved, Secretary of State. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I didn't see. I'm sorry. Mrs. Jelka Godec, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I was holding my hand up. You probably didn't see it. I would have responded to Mr. Zorman, but just like that, you really have nothing to discuss, because you can't. Because against what my colleague Tanka told you earlier, what the rest of my colleagues have said, you can't do anything. Mr Zorman, you don't even know how to discuss substantively, and I haven't seen any content in your debates yet. Today, in particular today, all you have said is that we are one of the greatest, I do not know – I will say the opposition that should not be. Our recommendations should not be considered, should not be considered, should not be at a meeting. I can only conclude from your discussions that you do not want to have the opposition at all, and you cannot have serious debates because you do not deal with the content because you have said so yourself. You are not dealing with content, but with what the SDS is doing in the National Assembly and what it was doing in the past, and you are preaching to us, Mr. Zorman, how we should work and how you work with the country, I will say, as has been said in the National Assembly, like a pig with a moss. [[…]] That's how you do it with the state. And that's one of your, I'll say, biggest mistakes you've made in your term. With such arrogance as you have now performed, Mr Zorman, to fellow Members of Parliament – I do not think anyone in the National Assembly is capable of doing so. I don't think so. He's not capable. That it's embarrassing what we wrote. It's embarrassing what the government is doing, once again, what this government is doing with the country. That's embarrassing. To avoid talking about content – yes, once again, you have no argument against what we have said. And now relying on the fact that everything is against the Constitution, Mr. Zorman, how many times did you press the button for when it was a law that the Legal Service cited the articles of the Constitution by which the law is inconsistent with the Constitution? [[…]] How many times? Can I re-number them for you, laws? The law on pharmaceuticals, the law on apprenticeship, the law on banking, I can think of them. And the mandate of the opposition president, where you said you would accept all responsibility, you did not. You did not accept that key then for the withdrawal of your mandate, you did not accept and do not want to accept responsibility for the pharmacy law, the Law on apprenticeship, because you do not substantively discuss it. And yes, we called a meeting on the subject of UKC Maribor. We called, Mr. Zorman. You're a member, even the vice-president of the Health Committee, and you should know that. We called. Dr. Pivec was on the parliamentary committee of inquiry, and you had every opportunity to come and question him. And yes, we're also investigating UKC Maribor, but you know that. And don't talk if they're ours or yours, personally, but I don't know about your board members, I don't make differences between blacks, greens, reds, whites, I don't know, ours, yours, lefts, rights. Not in that case. Whoever is involved – and my colleagues can say that I say to the Member that anyone – will answer if we only get to the point where the crime is proven to him. No matter who he is, Mr. Zorman. And once again, you have all the opportunity, all the opportunity as a member of the investigative commission to call our people if you think they're ours, and call them in for questioning, and I'll cooperate. I have not yet rejected any proposal. But don't say we don't call meetings for those hospitals or for those people who are ours. But it's true that most of your staff is. That's another truth. That the hospitals run mostly your personnel, which you set up with all your strength in Brežice, so I don't read your anonymous applications, because then you'll say that there's an anonymous report, it says what the pressure was on the members of the board of the institute by the SMC, the local staff, Mr. Copač, I don't know who this director was. We can talk content because we have papers because we have arguments, you can't, you can't do that. That if we cooperate effectively, there will be in-depth discussions. We are constantly working together, making proposals – because you reject everything and then talk to the Health Act so that it is possible to cooperate further with the amendments, and so on. Why are you making fun of us? How many of our amendments have you supported in this mandate? How much? One or two. One or two. And then you're telling us about creative cooperation. I am the first Member of Parliament, and the old Members tell me that something like this has not yet been experienced in Parliament. Something like that, rejecting the opposition. Let's say the budgets, as far as I know, have ever been adopted by any opposition amendment to the budget in previous mandates. You're not one of them. Not one, because you're the smartest. Thank God you have such confidence, but if all that you're saying here is done, then that self-esteem would be justified. And once again, if we go back to health. You support corruption. You support her because your actions are not in this area. And once again, a public breach of the Public Procurement Act was publicly recognized in the investigation. For two and a half million, they went through — nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing at the Ministry. Corruption — Nothing. You're responsible here! And then the prime minister goes to the press conference and he says, "We've suppressed corruption, we've brought so many people before the courts." What, though, are some of the things we should give in this area — the ventricles? You know what people do? What's Mr Furlan doing, who didn't even know what he was, whether he was an official or a public worker? He didn't know what it was. What does he do? Who's the reporter for who's reporting this shit, not by looking into who's causing this shit. Who's the reporter, that's what they're interested in right now. So NPU. Now let us look for the one who admitted it or said that we would be putting it to the end. That's what they do. As my colleague Tanko said, this is happening in public institutions, not in concessionaires. Concessionaires lowered prices for these veins, lower prices. Or comparatively the same as abroad, but they have fewer patients. And now you're telling me this is a disgrace to our recommendation. It's embarrassing when you say I'm not going to have a substantive discussion. This is a shame, it is an insult to the National Assembly, an insult to citizens and citizens, because you can't have a substantive discussion. In-depth debate, tell me, list concrete measures to prevent corruption in health, to reduce waiting periods, today it is ordered for 2020. Specific proposals. You come with the Health Act, where you save an area that works well, people are satisfied with doctors, with concessionaires and so on. Where it's not, let these institutes arrange for the inspection to work, that's your job. Tell the inspectors, go watch. No, no, no. Because then you have information from the inspectors that they can't go there. You're saying that you're going to solve this, that now that you're you, but this law will be, and the concessionaries will be under such care that you love God, the worst there can be. And you will work transparently so that you will not publish the invitation to tender on the portal at all. You're making a fool out of people, Mr. Zorman. You're making a fool out of people. Give me a list of all these measures that will — if people have to pay more under the new law — what will they get better? I won't say any more, better. Will I, if I pay no more, get better care, better care, I can order e-order as the e-order is supposed to be, and so on? You're going to abolish extra health insurance, and the Ministry is proposing this, as far as I know. And of course, you are constantly referring to this analysis of the health system in Slovenia prepared by the international organisation. If I can see who was preparing this analysis. I asked the Ministry to give me all my professional associates. To prepare this analysis – I have already cleaned – on the three pages of the listed person, I think there are about 50 persons, Slovenian persons. These people were working — what? It says they participated as a working group in the preparation of an analysis of the health system in Slovenia. But if we've been paying off strangers, then what have our domestics been doing? They've been sending data to these foreigners, and the question is what kind of data they've been sending. But about 50 people from our country worked there! I can read all these people, there are working groups or areas. On the basis of this analysis, which is written for additional insurance in Slovenia, they give us four options: first, better regulation and supervision of additional health insurance; second, replacement of additional health insurance with a public compulsory contribution; third, waiver of payments; fourth, no change. Now what? First option, better regulation and supervision of additional health insurance. This was their first chance offered to the Ministry. The Ministry didn't take that. Why? It says here: “If the government considers that better regulation is not possible, control could consider measures that then follow.” So the government doesn't think there's better regulation or control, but here they're telling me how they're going to control it, and I don't know what it is, not that it isn't. This is the analysis provided by the international organization, and you skipped it because you feel that there is no better control — or why? That's my conclusion, because it says here that if the government doesn't think better regulation and control is possible, then let it handle other matters. This government is obviously unable to control, at least in this area, but of course not another. Our recommendation is not shameful. As the Legislative and Legal Service has said, there could or should be interpolation for these proposals. However, we can call on the President of the Government to dismiss the Minister, which he should have done a long time ago, because I think this Minister is the weakest member of this coalition. He's the weakest member. Many times when we have highlighted this in the National Assembly, the opposite side of the kimala is also kimima today. I'm very sorry, but let's stop complaining about each other, who's ever something back. Yes, it was corruption, I agree that it was before. But if it's been 40 years of shit, should it be another 40 years, or what? Now we know, now we have concrete cases, as Tanko said, a concrete case of vein braces. Are we gonna play dumb now or what? Now that we have found out when we are coming this far, Mr Zorman says he believes that we will not find political responsibility. Do you already know that or what? You already know that the parliamentary commission of inquiry will not find political responsibility? How do you know that? That's what I'm interested in. How do you know? How do you know no one will be responsible for this? Of course not! Mr Furlan, head of SDT, is involved in these matters, but he may not produce them either. Involved in the sense of my brother's company, who was the only one selling hips to a New York hospital, I don't know how much higher prices. Of course, he won't investigate corruption in health care, God forbid, because we can get to the pit. Don't skim your head, that's the facts. Go see if you weren't watching. Look at Mr Majhenič, who was looking for branches in the law to say that this is not a corrupt act, which we ask him is that violating the Public Procurement Act is not a crime. Even if for 2 million and a half you go through, it's not a crime. And apparently that's what the ministry thinks. And he's looking for the man who reported it. He's looking for a man. No, we're not going to look for the guy who did the shit, we're going to look for the guy who reported the shit - it's our country. And once again, this recommendation is, of course, to continue interpolation. We have already announced after the completion of the interpretation that the Ministry will be monitoring the work of the Minister, and at that time nothing has changed for the better, these measures, which have not been taken now, but I do not see that this law, which is here on the table, will bring anything better. [[…]] Once again, you'll leave the rotten apple in the bagel, you'll pick it up healthy. Once again, the patient wants quality care to talk to him, which he doesn't have time for right now, and you're going to ruin all of this. And you're talking about transparency, and today you're going to grant concessions in a transparent way. Once again, I ask the Ministry, which has been preparing this law, because they have not left others behind, how transparent it is if you publish it only on your website, not on the public procurement portal. What are you afraid of? That foreigners will come who want to sign concessions just like in Romania and Bulgaria? That those who accept concessions with good work will prove that public health or public health homes work poorly? Because in Slovenia, the person who is doing well in Slovenia is affected and proves that the other side is not doing well. He's blocking it. I agree, concessions that are bad, that don't work well, that were untransparent or, as you say, given overnight, in a friendly way. But as far as I know, there are three such concessions waiting in the Ministry in a friendly way. And since it will only be published on the ministerial side and not on the portal – now we will wait for those announcements, and we will communicate, why don't you sign in? Don't joke about transparency because it's not there. And also control — will you switch services or will you set up other people to work on concessions, or will you leave the same people who have apparently not reviewed concessions so far? Has the revision of concessions been made? That's what I asked you at the interview. Is a revision of concessions made? How many concessionaires are there who don't do well? Who are not doing well again. If they got the concession overnight – it's not right. If they got it in a friendly way - it's not right. And I'm asking you whether these concessionaires are stealing or not doing well or working where another program might be or could be running a public health home. Otherwise, I'm going to take some time, but it's clear to me that something that the opposition is putting forward is shameful and that this should not be dealt with at all from this point of view that you do not want to hear the things that are coming to you. [[…]] You have no arguments against what we have said today and what is in the recommendation, so none of you have debated today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Branko Zorman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u124	I have to respond because my colleague did not understand me correctly, so I have a duty to respond, even though I have nothing to say about her. At first, she misunderstood me where I said the topic we were dealing with was embarrassing. I didn't say that. But I said that the recommendation, as you have prepared it, from a purely procedural point of view is shameful on your part. That's what I said. But it's not that they're embarrassing themes that you're dealing with in it. That's not what I said. Next, as far as the commission of inquiry is concerned. I'm afraid we're not going to find political responsibilities in the end, but we've got a lot of hot thieves. But these are not the ones to be dealt with by the Commission of Inquiry, because the Commission of Inquiry is looking for political responsibility. A doctor, a procurement manager or a director is not a political official. That's what I'm talking about. But if we do, it's great, because we're not going to find political responsibility under this mandate anyway. We've been here since 2014, and these bastards started before, so if we find them, great, but I'm afraid we won't. So don't twist my words. Next. When I said that you don't refer to institutions where there are "yours" involved, I was thinking about the Health Committee, not the Commission of Inquiry, because you have to invite all health institutions to the investigative committee, because it would look a little strange if you only chose one. And that. You mentioned an invitation to tender where this invitation to tender was made, and now it is our fault. There are some concessions that are already waiting for the minister to sign, just so we can pass this law. Come on, stop it. It's a hoax. If the Minister would like to sign this concession, he can sign it today without a call for tender because that is not yet necessary. If I wanted to, as you say or, one Slovenian word is, you're pushing. So don't fool around.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u126	Zorman, I now urge you publicly to call, as a member, those before the commission of inquiry who are not the chicken thieves, for whom you know that they are politically responsible, because I so understand you, you can correct me and we will question them. No problem. "I'm afraid these chickens aren't the thieves" – who are the thieves? Then let's call them, Mr. Zorman, you're a member of the commission, let's work hard. Your discussions point only in the direction that this investigation committee is obviously in excess of you. Are you overdoing it? Are you afraid we'll get to those who aren't chicken thieves? Don't smile because I'm not that stupid, Mr. Zorman, you know. Even more so, yes. Is it possible for you to come to the committee and make an offer to question whom? Here you go. Here you go! No problem. Once again, I have not rejected any proposal from the members of the Commission so far, and I will not now, and I will be very happy if you tell us who the non-smoker thieves are and are politically responsible. I spoke about the reference of the Health Committee meeting on UKC Maribor, Mr Zorman. That's what I said, too, but you smiled and you didn't want to hear me. We called for a meeting on the topic of anesthesiologists – lack of professional staff in UKC Maribor – and we set this up sharply. We talked about the norms and standards, and the UKC Maribor was on the wallpaper, so I reject these impressions. The next thing I have to answer here is, it's not your fault they went through a public invitation. Of course it's not your fault, because it was until 2010. But you're guilty of not taking action now. Because now they're going through a public invitation! They're also going through a public invitation to tender. The Minister is currently unable to grant a concession to one of the applications awaiting this friendly distribution because the apparatus is still being procured. But when the machine gets its hands on it, I'm gonna bet here that the concession will be granted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zorman, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you, Chairman. No, it's not a replica. She was a prop. Otherwise, she wouldn't be able to replicate it to me, so we can go by tomorrow. My colleague, don't turn your back on my words. When did I say that I knew who was politically responsible for the purchase of vein braces and that we only had chicken thieves? Don't turn your back on my words. I didn't say that. But since we obviously don't get along, but we all know how to read, I'll read you something. For the sake of the foregoing, why should this recommendation not be addressed? Not because of the darkness, but because you put him in as much as you put him in, because it's not an interpolation, but you put it in as if it were an interpolation. We'd treat it as a recommendation. Don't get carried away now. I'll read it to you. I quote from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly: “Considering this, it can be found that the recommendation deals with issues which are by content and in view of the purpose of determining the responsibility of the Minister of Health, based on the principle of the division of power”, because this is to be taken into account, “it can only be the subject of interpretation. Therefore, the recommendation is not in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure.” It further discusses how it is not clear enough, specific enough that it can be dealt with at all and so forth. I mentioned this earlier why this recommendation should not be addressed. Again, not because of the subject, but because you put him in the way you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u130	Now I will read something to you, too, because I can read: "One of the components of the rule of law provided for in Article 2 of the Constitution, which was raised by the Constitutional Court to the level of constitutional principles, is the principle of clarity and certainty of the rules. Despite the requirement that laws should be clear, clear, clear, clear and unambiguous and coherently incorporated into the legal order, the ZPS considers that, in the case of the proposed law, these criteria are not followed by a legal proposal, since the text in some segments is incomprehensible and inconclusive.” The law of apprenticeship, Mr. Zorman. “The sixth indent of the second paragraph, after the content, constitutes an intervention in a free economic initiative (Article 74 of the Constitution), so it is necessary to verify or explain in the first place whether this intervention is constitutionally permissible.” “We stress that the regulation of the financing of pharmacy as a public service is one of the fundamental issues of this law due to the principle of legality,” and so on, and that it is unconstitutional. I'm talking about the laws, Mr. Zorman. About the laws you've passed that are unconstitutional. About the laws, Mr. Zorman. And you think about the recommendation and we're scarves. I can't wait for the election to get this ego to your soles.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The colleague mentioned that in the pharmacy law, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service stated whether the intervention was constitutionally permissible and that this should be clarified, but of course forget to say that it was clarified and that, of course, it is constitutionally permissible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. Ana Medved has the word. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you. He explained something. The eProcurement project was worth 920 000 euros, and the central level operator was IN2, and the upgrading of local systems was done through local providers, via local information systems. The whole project was financed from the European Structural Funds at 85%. In April 2017, according to last month, 443 operators were included in the whole project. Every day 12 thousand e-passes were issued in April, with a maximum number of 14 thousand 600 passengers. By April, 215,000 e-passengers had been issued cumulatively and between 6,000 700 and 10,000 passengers were transported on a daily basis. What's that, an e-order? We have two systems, we have a system of NATIONally, which is just some Excel table that the data providers enter into, and we have no control over these data, or we don't know if they're real or not real, according to our own words. But the controls on IJZ and ZZS have shown that they are not exactly real. So we decided to go to e-order for control. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you for laughing at me. What's e-ordering? eProcurement is obtained directly from the information system, so let us go beyond one critical step, this is a reporting step where guides can be reported in such a way or otherwise. But that this eProcurement is objective to be relied on, but it must involve very many operators, at least 80% of all performers, and we are gradually approaching this number. But we're not there yet, of course not, because we started e-Procurement on April 10th, just like we talked a few days before. In fact, the system does not always work and everywhere, but we approach it very well because if there were big problems, then daily orders would not be possible for such a large cumulative number. If I try to explain how eProcurement works. The artists had since 1. Ten. 2016 the possibility to open the schedules in the central system and report in a fixed manner to this system of these schedules, i.e. schedules for certain operators, for certain outpatients per day. However, these schedules may not be communicated and, as a result, patients may be given a deadline when they apply. So, those numbers we see on the eProcurement website are the numbers that the performers sent to the system, they're not the performers we have, they're called the government, the ministry, anyone. This is their data or the data of the operators and it is essentially their responsibility whether they are real or not. It is, however, the fact that, together with the ZZZS, we have investigated this data in very detail over the last two months, for example before April 10th, it is said there is February, March, and we have warned them that there is a discrimination on the one hand or on the other. Then the operators were gradually correcting this, and the fact is that they are still mistakes. With such a large system, mistakes are expected to occur. But the fact is that the e-passenger is now functioning in a stable way, most operators have no problem with it. Again, the problem is that we now have about a thousand 500 services in the system, these are the so-called VZS, for which we can get an email but there is currently an e-procurement option for 180 of these services in April. That means we can just call from home anyway. And for most services, you have to do the same thing the old way, it's on the phone, you go there yourself, whatever. But the next version of the coder is coming up, which is now being repaired. In the cipher, there are codes for all these services that we can subscribe to, and we expect that in this next version we will turn on all diagnostics and services, says including CT and magnet, other than operations, people from home are difficult to order, and checks will not be included. The fact is, we're going to this slow. Quite practical proof for me, because now I am looking at it from a distance, and before that I am not, I was also an active actor in Slovenian medicine. We're pretty much consulting the field because we want to start an e-consultation. E-consultation is essentially an upgrade to e-procurement, where the whole system will also allow peer consultation of specialists at the primary and secondary levels on whether or not a particular patient needs a higher level review. All of this in order to prevent, in particular, patients who are immobile from being burdened by transporting to a non-necessary examination or by allowing them to move to a higher level of treatment than otherwise. Since this e-consultation will be possible, this is a special form of e-passenger, doctors on a secondary level will look at the patient's data sent by the traveller from the primary level, and decide whether they will examine this patient earlier because his medical condition is such as to say, okay, a checkup based on the data sent by my colleague I do not need. The fact is, we agree that the problems around e-procurement are and cannot be said to be gone. They sure are, but we're putting them out. On the other hand, e-procurement, when it works and when it is reliable, will allow all operators or a large majority of operators to participate in it and represent the only real basis for reducing waiting lines. The fact is that we are working very hard at the Ministry to encourage them in different ways. The fact is that the entire variable award project has also put in its guardian, we will say, the commitment that doctors will have to participate in the eProcurement, because if they fail to achieve this condition, they will not receive a variable award or will not be able to participate in it at all. So we added this fuse so that as soon as possible this system will be put in place, balanced and that we will actually have real, objective data. We're trying so hard. As far as EDP is concerned. We are aware that waiting species are also a major problem; in fact, they are a problem, I agree. The problem in itself is that people do not get the service they need in one particular time period, but they cannot get it because of the system itself, because of bottlenecks, and this is a problem for them. And this is also a problem for the contractor, for all of us is a problem, and we are aware of it. But the fact is, we have to get the infrastructure fixed first, and then we move on. The €20 million injection is the first step to shorten the most protruding cases, the cases that need intervention are the ones that are waiting for more than the waiting period. This is money that is intended exclusively or primarily for these patients. The fact is that we also started with this project, we started in April. And it came true. This is also how we have now organised that we, the Ministry of Health, from the central level, will also control whether these targeted patients, who are waiting for an unacceptable period, are actually involved in this programme. We will certainly do something here, and the fact is that financial injections will not solve the problem as certain bottlenecks are removed, of course there will be a greater penetration of new patients into the system. But we're gonna have to do this systemically. However, we will systematically try to deal with the amendment of the Patient Rights Act, which essentially regulates or regulates the individual relationship between the operator and the patient. On the one hand, the operator must take into account the patient’s free time and, on the other hand, the patient must also take into account the free capacity of the operator. Because you need to know, on the one hand, that patients are waiting not only in waiting lines, but also in front of ambulances, but it is not right to wait, and on the other hand you need to know that patients do not come to the procedure that they should come to and do not apologize to us. And it happens to us, in particular from our own experience, that, I don't know, a colonoscopy of five, six cases that should come in, three in the morning, three in the morning. The fact is, this is the whole team, if there's anesthesia, it's plus two other people, and we can't specifically order us into colonoscopy on the same day because we need to prepare. This is, for example, one specific example. With the Patients' Rights Act, we would just like to clear these waiting lists, and we are doing this now specifically in the EDP project, because we actually want to get really those patients who are waiting for a long time, not on their own. Because you also need to know that all the interventions that patients are waiting for are not life-threatening and we need to focus on those interventions that are life-threatening, we need to target those patients who have the capacity to do so. However, we do have some interventions that actually show the longest waiting periods, but which are not life-threatening. The fact is, for these interventions, which are also of a cosmetic nature, those doctors who do this — patients waiting precisely for one particular doctor — are willing to wait for two or three years because they do not really care when they do it. And we would now like to point out that we know exactly which patients we put in the system or who are willing to move between operators and be operated or have a diagnostic service performed. That's it for now. In short, I would say there are health problems, I agree with all of you, and I went to the Ministry of Health myself because there are health problems and I want to help myself. I don't know if we're gonna make it or not, but the fact is, we all have to step together and try to do something because we're gonna make it together. But if we're gonna bet like this, maybe a little less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u136	Mrs Medved, I know that you have been in the hospital and that you know the health problems, even from your debate, it has been heard that you know that these are specific health problems and that you want to help, I am only afraid that you will not be in the ministry for long. Because the last time I listened to you on the committee, you answered very frankly, and I don't know if this is going to end well, but I hope it does, for the sake of the patients. Because you can tell concretely from practice where the problems are, and I hope that these matters will also be taken into account. And I agree that this bet in the National Assembly does not lead anywhere but at least to good patients. In the National Assembly, I would like cooperation to be different, in order for the opposition to take into account proposals that are not weak-minded, definitely not, and are quite good, but unfortunately, “that’s the mother” would be said. The coalition does not take into account our recommendations or the proposals of laws or amendments or nothing. And as far as I'm listening, let's say this also indicates that the Minister hasn't stopped by our parliamentary group once to present the law. [[…]] We are constantly called upon when we give the law to present it to the coalition, such as the Minister in this vital law or other laws, and she has not even tried to present this law. Then perhaps there would be no such matters in the National Assembly. And if the proposals could be reconciled sooner, I'd be very happy, but you're not. You were talking to me about e-ordering something completely different or we didn't get along. Because today I was talking about e-ordering, which is not e-ordering for me, because I still get home the paper and I have to order myself. That's not an e-order. You told me about the system errors Please, Mrs. Servant, go e-order yourself and you'll see what a pigeon is. [[…]] You've been telling me about the system failures that I've already talked about today, that when you have waiting periods, how long the waiting period with the individual operator is that the errors are in there. Yeah, because they didn't give the schedules because it says a bug in the system and so on. I agree, this is a mistake, but I asked what the difference in e-procurement is now from before and now. As a patient, because I look from the patient, not the performer – there is no difference from the patient. I got a green tip earlier, and today I get a white sheet. And I have to call a doctor or a specialist again to order. There's no difference here, and it's not a fault in the information system, but it's a mistake in the ministry. I also agree, too, with waiting periods where the patient persists because he wants a specific doctor — such a patient has nothing to complain about. If he decides about this doctor, where he knows he'll wait two years, he'll wait two years, and then he's not allowed to talk. But where an operation is urgently needed and where it is waiting, it is unacceptable that waiting periods are the same as in certain cases. And that, 20 million, you said, is now new in the extra programs to reduce waiting periods. Otherwise, I did not get an answer as to whether operators who failed to implement the ministry’s programme last year — for example, in the field of heart surgery, which I think is more than necessary — will also receive this program this year. Or did they get the program maybe those who have met over 100% or not? It's nice of you to say that a financial injection isn't enough because the secretary says it'll save the waiting period. That these financial injections will be made and that the matter will have to be resolved systematically. Now you say, the Law on Patient Rights. Although I looked at it quickly, see if you write in the marriage that the patient can wait 30 minutes — will that be it? What if he waits longer? If you write in the law that the leaf is white and then the green is colored, what are you going to do? Once again, if you write 30 minutes, you'll save the waiting in the waiting room? If you don't have any personnel, they'll have to wait there, they won't be there for 30 minutes, and the patient will be waiting there for two hours. Do you understand what I'm saying? 30 minutes in marriage doesn't mean the patient won't wait. It doesn't. Then you wrote in it that he had to apologize ten days earlier. What if I get angina three days earlier? Am I going to get unjustifiable or what are you going to do with me? Yeah, let's let people know. I agree, however, that if a patient does not come into an orderly surgery and does not apologize or even says that he goes on vacation and does not go into surgery, then we go to the tail of the waiting line because it is irresponsible of the patient. To get back to the recommendation. You haven't answered me a lot of questions, and you haven't referred to the recommendations, but well, now it is, because it was a closing word, but I still say that in a recommendation that is prepared for some scarab and shamefully, a number of truths are written and also quotes from ministers who are not proud of it. And how things are being handled today and how they are being handled today is, of course, its responsibility, its subjective, objective responsibility for all these anomalies that are happening at that time, or the anomalies that are possible or are also the product of a long-standing health condition, have escalated today and the minister is not doing anything but walking with a fire extinguisher and gas. But don't solve it to say it, but now look, today we've been dealing with health concessions that aren't the first problem. [[…]] They're not the first problem. You yourself said there were other problems, not concessions. Now you throw this on the table because you give people a signal or talk — what? It has been said well before — the right hand is for private health care and we are for public health. No, we're all public health. We're all for public health, but not for what we are today. Not for the way it is today. Once again, I do not consider public health care to be a public health care institution or a private person, but rather an operator who receives taxpayers’ money or public money for his programmes. Either it's a health care home or it's a concessionaire or it's a private one. It's public health. And if someone is doing good, quality, and so forth for this money, why strangle this man or this contractor? Why are you now dealing with these concessionaires, instead of dealing with the network, by shortening waiting periods at the system level, by not paying back the material, and so on? No, we're going to do something completely different. Once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party's recommendation is that the Minister is objectively, subjectively responsible for the current state of health in which there is an escalation of more problems than three years ago, which he cannot solve with Floscules, restricts young doctors by law, then goes to a press conference and says that she will do everything she can to keep young doctors in Slovenia, while at the same time writing in the law “for five more years of working time to be able to carry out her own activities”. Why, though, do they have six years of specialization and eventually receive a full - time exam or have they done this specialized exam to perform? So he can heal me, he can do his job, he can do his job, he can't do his job, he can't do his job. They've been going to college for six years and they've been specializing for five years to open up their activities. Why? And then the minister says, "We will do everything for young people to stay in Slovenia." They won't. Six years of study, six years of specialization, they must not do anything on their own at the time of specialization. They can work alone abroad at that time, but they can't work with us. And we still have doctors who barely walk through hospitals, and they still make decisions in decision-making places and don't give young people room and don't let them breathe. Let's get on with it. Why are appliances in UKC Maribor hospitals, for example, or do they end up in Ljubljana at three? Why don't the waiting period get shorter there? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I hope they will, 'cause that would be smart. And let that doctor, instead of going to work with the concessionaire, work there. All you have to do is pay for it. He's got to be paid. That's the problem. Therefore, I do not know if the Minister is talking to the other ministries – financial, economic and so on. Because once a colleague said that if she had the support of the President of the Government, she would be able to do whatever she could or would want, and apparently so. [[…]] But I'm wondering if you and the Treasury are talking about a new law, about new taxes. For me, these are new taxes, because one person is going to pay for one of you, but we're all going to get the same as we do now. I'm not seeing any improvement right now. But we're gonna hit those ugly ones who serve a lot, and I think even the ones that are middle class are the ones that are the ones that are. But whether the supply changes or not, it'll be better or not, and we don't know that. With this new law that you will bring through, as has already been foretold — the coalition has unanimously supported it — you will certainly not achieve it. As far as corruption is concerned, I'll say it again. You have all the options, anyone who can come to public hearing, anyone for an investigative parliamentary inquiry, the members of the commission can propose witnesses, defendants or interrogators, anything and I don't want to hear in the National Assembly that we don't find political responsibility or that we don't get to that point and that we hunt chicken thieves. These chicken thieves damaged the country on one call if you want, for 2 million and a half — on only one call in one year. These chicken thieves have made it possible to overpaid the ventricles four times. These chicken thieves have done everything they can to protect themselves from this matter, to make payments, and these chicken thieves say that they were not educated by the state, but by the industry. Can you believe it? They were not educated by the State, so they are not entirely indebted to the State; they are indebted to the industry that has educated them. I don't know who paid for their primary school and high school and college. But if the industry is paying them now, suppliers, it's up to them to ask what's in exchange and what's not. Some people have something to replace. I would have ended up in this place. Once again, this recommendation is not shameful, but it has shown a lot of shame on the part of the coalition and the inability to argue the debate and the inability to reason on the contrary, which is very sad, given that the biggest coalition party is not saying that it is not protecting or working against corruption. If it were true that you are advocating public health because you are full of mouth, today you would be speaking with arguments and not that the recommendation is shameful and embarrassing to this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Time's not up yet, and if there's still a desire to discuss it, please report by pressing the button. This also applies to the representative of the Government, the representative of the Government and the proposer. Please sign up. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, I'm asking you to sign up. Can we take this list and add or repeat the government's representative? Can I? Yeah. Good. Mrs. Anja Bah [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is first, then the Ministry of Health will be and then Mrs Jelka Godec will be proposed. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, but I can't get past what you said, Secretary of State. You come from the system – I hope you will listen. You're coming out of the system and you're saying that a financial injection is going to make a difference. But if you are really coming out of the system, as you said, in order to do something, then you should be first in line and shout out loud that corruption in health needs to be said and that this is a system where you should be zero tolerance for any form of corruption already because we have patients on the one hand and on the other hand doctors who are committed both to their profession and to all ethical and moral standards. But you don't support these recommendations. You don't support these recommendations, so you don't want to call corruption a stop. You know, that's the saddest thing! Now I'm surprised you're saying that you come from a system where you want some things to change, but you don't support the recommendations. More! You do not find it controversial what the representative of the largest coalition party is saying, that such a debate is a disgrace and that such recommendations are a disgrace to this Parliament. No! No! These recommendations, honourable fellow Member Zorman, are a disgrace to this country! But not because they're written! Because that's what's happening in this country! Because we are paying the system – and we are paying it well because corruption is possible. And let's not do anything to make it go away or to take anything or step forward to say it's over, that's enough. Enough filling your pockets at the expense of patients as well as doctors! And the doctors. Because today's doctors aren't enough. The fact is that statistics also show that doctors burn out – this is probably what the secretary herself will be able to say – because they cannot in the system because they require too much from them. A lot too much. But we don't have any new ones, no money, you say. That's enough money. A colleague of Jelka Godec managed to bring things so far on the committee that if the justice system worked in this country, if the persecution worked, someone would only come and take three of them away. And that's what happened? No, no. Our criminals, our justices have completely different concerns. It is necessary to continuously evaluate certain properties and nonstop stories. We're not even a banana republic! And now that we're talking about backlogs and waiting lines, I'd just like to say something. An example that seems very problematic to me, E.R. I'm not going to say that all over Slovenia, but just to tell you the case of the Ljubljana ER. You get there, you're really prioritized, and that's the same thing, and they make sure you're on your turn in minutes. But you know what's going on now? That you're in those specific minutes that can be up to 180 minutes, for the first time, but you're done after three hours. Nothing's changed. The end time has stayed the same. You know why? Because there are no doctors. Because you're working two doctors and you can't do more than that. The staff is kind, the staff works 120% if we want to call it that, but it's not working. And now we're gonna bring in some tricks again. Sorry if it's your turn. After three and a half hours, then the patient's final treatment. These are the numbers. But, of course, you'll shut that up in statistics. And to the end. Sir just wrote me on Twitter. He's got a travel agent to deal with within 90 days. Do you know what happened? There's no room. And when he asked the doctor to give it up after 90 days, she said, "I can't, because then I'm going to be punished." Now tell me what this is.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Ana Medved, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you. Some information. eProcurement, once again, a thousand 500 services are currently in the system, of which a thousand 320 services do not allow e-procurement, and 180 services allow this. So at 180 services we can now order an e-mail, which means we get an appointment from a doctor, then either we order or he orders us or we order the old ones. For a thousand 320 services, this is not possible. But since this is related to the update of the coder – this is the ciphertext of the VZS, this is a lot of work. It was necessary to make a cross code between the current accounting services and the eProcurement services, now they have identified where the errors are and are updating it. And when this is updated, which will be very soon, we will include all the diagnostics, all the first checks are made for all the services we have, except for checks and operations are not going in. You probably had one of those services that wasn't in the 180s. As far as percutaneous heart interventions are concerned, only three performers perform percutaneous heart attacks in Slovenia. This is a tertiary activity carried out by three operators, paid after realisation, even this year. They know who their patients are, and they have the opportunity to operate or diagnose all of these patients waiting for them unless they do another procedure. As far as waiting is concerned, this is the new Law on Patient Rights. Yeah, it's true, it's 30 minutes. And 30 minutes is some average from the existing Patient Rights Act, where we already have it written that they wait 20 minutes for specific checks, for specified 40 minutes, and we gave an average of 30. But we have clearly defined the exceptions. Exceptions are that it may be delayed if the previous patient who has, we will say, a more complicated treatment or an emergency service is carried out. All those services at the primary level, where the emergency room is covered with a regular ambulance, are therefore exceptions and cannot actually provide 30 minutes, that is what we know. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry. If I'm booked for surgery and I get an angina three days earlier, I simply write an email to the operator: "I'm sorry, I'm sick." And that's enough, and they're gonna put me on the next date. However, if I do not apologize, then if the nature of the intervention or service is such that it is not necessary for life, which is probably not necessary, I will not be there for three months — that is, according to the new law — with another I can. And I agree, it's a lack of doctors. At present, we have put forward a spring call, a considerable increase in the number of new calls for tenders, and the question is whether they will all be filled. And that's another question, so let's go back to the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a decision is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of Tuesday 30 May's vote. I'm breaking up with this 46th item of the agenda. We're moving to 44. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the inclusion of young people in the economic and social world. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Andrej Cuz. On 4 May, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Since the Committee did not adopt the points of the recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, all present, very nice greetings! Today we are discussing again the Proposal for a Recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council, which was tabled by Mr Andrej Čuš for the second time. Like the first time we have spoken about this subject, I will stress that in 2014, on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, we unanimously adopted a decision imposing on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the proposed extension of the Economic and Social Council by young people. However, if the social partners did not agree to this, the Government itself should look for an opportunity to involve young people in the Economic and Social Council. This decision has not yet been implemented after three years. Despite the fact that the proposal has already been condemned for failure in advance, we support it in the Group of Unaffiliated Members, because it is time for us to finally offer young people a hand for mutual cooperation. That is why in the Alliance we took matters into our own hands and prepared and tabled amendments to the laws governing health and pension insurance in the work where they determine membership in the Assembly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. In this way, we will give young people a word in decisions concerning their future. After all, young people contribute significantly to the filling of both cash registers, both health and pension, while at the same time allowing them active participation in the context of social dialogue, an instrument of exceptional importance, the result of which is reflected in the direct consequences for all participants. For society as a whole, the creation of a quality social dialogue, one where participants are legitimately representing all stakeholders, is extremely important. I hope we're all aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We have already discussed the proposal for a recommendation that we are considering today at the March meeting of the National Assembly. The proposal states that for many years young people have been reminded that they are not directly involved in social dialogue and that, as a result, no one defends their interests and rights. To this end, it makes a recommendation to the Government to appoint a youth representative as a member of the ESF as part of the social dialogue and the preparation of legislation and reforms to be a youth representative as a member of one of the government representatives in the Economic and Social Council. However, the explanation of this same proposal states that the ESF should be amended to make young people an equal partner in social dialogue, and the legislative and legal service has also drawn attention to this discrepancy in its opinion. The rules of operation of the ESF state that this is a three-partite body where employers, employees and government representatives are equally represented. The rules on its functioning in Article 18 make it possible for young people, older persons, disabled persons and other stakeholders to be present at meetings where important intergenerational issues are addressed. With this change, the government has therefore sought a solution so that young people can participate in meetings on matters that are most affected, and so is the case. Just two days ago, the Slovenian Student Organisation published on its Twitter profile a photograph and a footnote that two representatives participated in an extraordinary ESS meeting and the subject was a white book on the future of Europe. In particular, it should be stressed that the ESF is, by its very nature, a space for industrial relations and that social partnerships between different social groups can take place in a variety of other ways. This allows young people to defend their interest within the framework of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, which is responsible for the field of youth or for the realization of public interest in the youth sector at national level. In addition, young people can participate in policy-making within a number of youth organisations – the Youth Council of Slovenia, the Student Organization of Slovenia, the Diagnostic Organization of Slovenia and so on. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that dialogue with civil society is important in coordinating attitudes and decision-making whether it is a group of young people, an elderly group or a disabled group. In this case, however, it is necessary to consider a different solution or cooperation and not necessarily the involvement of civil society through full or associated membership in the Economic and Social Council. In this regard, we stress, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, that most of the social partners are not organisations and individuals who perform public services or exercise public powers, to which, in accordance with Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly may at all propose measures for work. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we rejected the recommendation at the meeting of the parent committee due to the above-mentioned recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u146	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal to involve young people in the Economic and Social Council, because we have already written this in our programme because we want young people to be able to form not only youth but also national policies in all areas. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition sees young people as potential, not as burdensome. That is why, or also why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot agree with such a policy, and we believe that young people need to be heard. The government repeatedly repeats the reasons why not young people in the Economic and Social Council, that this is some closed tripartite organisation of employers, employees and executive branches of government, and that young people have the opportunity to attend these sessions to listen, perhaps even say something, but they have no right to decide. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not understand why the Government and the coalition fear young people, because we are fully convinced that they should announce the famous saying Nothing about young people without young people. For all issues relating to the future of the Slovenian state, in all areas, especially when it comes to young people, young people should therefore be involved or involved in active dialogue. It is amazing and extremely unacceptable that the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition, SD, SMC and Desus, do not realize the situation when Slovenia leaves about 8 000 young people in Slovenia every year. The Slovenian people, who create and pay for education, have invested a great deal in these young people so that they can acquire the necessary knowledge and skills that should be used in our country, but that does not happen. This is not the fault of young people seeking solutions for their future, but of the incompetent government of Mir Cerar because it does not give young people the opportunity to participate actively in solutions that still touch young people. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wonder how this government imagines the future development of Slovenia if most of the young Slovenian intelligence leaves us, what our future will be, what our development will be, how to get jobs with higher added value and so on. For all the reasons listed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not understand why the Government opposes the possibility of young people to have their own representative in the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Government's recommencement to involve young people in social dialogue on capital and labour relations and the country, i.e. in the Economic and Social Council, has not been confirmed on the Committee for the second time. The reasons for rejecting this proposal for the recommendation to the Government have not changed since then, both with the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service and with Members and Members, of course Desus. Almost exactly two months ago, Desus was more specific about the reasons why we voted against them, so I would not repeat them long and wide, but very briefly. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that young people have some maneuverable space, that institutions such as student organisations have student organisations and, last but not least, the Slovenian Youth Council and the Youth Office, but they must be taken into account and listened to in areas directly affecting their lives, work and future. This is what we do in the Desus Group, there is no law where we do not want to hear and see the views of young people, so we have invited them to participate in order to listen to them, invite them to participate and invite them to participate in the future. My colleague Pojbič said earlier: “Nothing about young people without young people”, as you might say, “Nothing about disabled people without disabled people.” In Desus, of course, we are aware of this and will continue to take such a course. However, we are evaluating once again, as we have already said at the meeting of the National Assembly on 23 March, that a three-partite institution called the Economic and Social Council is not that institution, that chambers would have invited individual groups according to their age period, that such attempts in the past were not just two months ago. As we say, we will listen to young people, we want dialogue with young people, we want intergenerational dialogue in the true sense of the word, because we estimate that older ones, if you want, are a silver generation with many experiences and knowledge, and a young and inspiring generation, also with vast knowledge and ideas, are a win-win combination for success in all areas in all policies in this country. At the end of the day, he would touch another moment that is not just in this area, repeating itself from month to month. We reject the way in which some opposition Members, as in the current lane, make identical proposals for laws, which, in the first and second cases, do not see the light of the world, we reject them with arguments, but in some ways, they gather political points in this way. We do not think that this is the right approach, that this is not constructive in the functioning of the National Assembly, so I would like to see less inflation in such proposals, rules which we reject with arguments. As we have said, and we have also said on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the proposal to recommend to the Government by a colleague of Cuz, who is not here today in a sad state, we do not support his proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u150	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we will repeat again what we have said two months ago, and that is that the proposal for a recommendation, which we are only considering today and we are not really deciding about it anymore, raises significantly more important questions about the organisation, involvement and functioning of our society than it may at first seem from a text that only speaks of the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council. It is likely that the applicant has not yet considered the importance of redefining industrial relations in a society that has long been based not only on classical relations between factory workers, between the office capitalist and the castle authorities. Young people can sit like this today, and of course they do so, on all three sides represented in the Economic and Social Council. They can be young entrepreneurs and thus employers; they can be young employees and thus those who represent them, or they can be representatives of the union themselves and they can be elected representatives of the government. In an ideal situation, therefore, there would be a proposal where young people have only one place in the Economic and Social Council, even a step back. In our view, such proposals do not understand this intergenerational component, nor do they understand the basic purpose of establishing and operating the Economic and Social Council. It is therefore in the interest of young people to be represented on all three sides, not only on the one hand, but also on the one hand, to hear the interest of young entrepreneurs, as well as of young employees, but also of those who do not have jobs, who receive fine forms of work or who are still struggling to enter the labour market. We cannot and must not try to disrupt key solidarity and cooperation between groups that are actually pursuing very similar, if not the same objectives. Thus, both the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Association of Retirement Associations of Slovenia are working towards a sustainable pension system that will allow everyone a decent pension in the long term. We anticipate that all three parties are rightly and equally striving for a decent payment for a decent job. Given the growing importance of civil society and the legitimacy of the wider social consensus it brings, it is expected that civil society will be increasingly involved in social partnership in the future. The ESF, as it is said, has already changed its rules of operation, which stipulate that representatives of different interest groups and individual experts may also be invited to attend each meeting, which also means young representatives. Rejecting the proposal does not therefore mean that young people are not supported in the Economic and Social Council, but rather means understanding the possibility of sitting on all three sides, on the employers' side, on the workers' side and also on the government's side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you, Vice President. We have heard many times, again before us a proposal to resolve the lack of political participation among young people. In fact, it is a matter of repeating recommendations on which the proposer is more than building visibility, while the recommendations themselves do not contribute in any way to the actual involvement of young people in political life. Why? As the problem for young people is not that they are not included in the so-called Economic and Social Council, the problem for young people is that they are not included in society in a fair and dignified manner as such. They are not included in the distribution of social wealth, they do not have access to safe, stable jobs, although of course they exist, they are set aside for a diversion, which makes it impossible to plan their future. What youths feel as if they are under pressure is sold back to them as an opportunity and as an opportunity to gain experience. Young people are forced by some individualistic ideologie of entrepreneurship and flexibility, which translates into poverty, uncertainty, dependence and unpredictability in the lives of young people. Young people are not allowed to be included in society in a way that respects their knowledge and work in order to receive a decent payment for their work and, of course, security that would also enable a normal, stable human life. It's a problem for young people. Lack of access to homes keeps them dependent on their parents, thus making it impossible for them to be independent again. The problem of young people is project employment, work through espies, part-time and voluntary work and, of course, all the other forms of leisure work that young people exhaust, do not include in working groups, atomize them, take creative energy that could be directed towards improving society, progress and so on. The problem for young people is therefore not that they do not have their own representative in the Economic and Social Council. One member of a government negotiating group under the age of 40 cannot legitimately represent all young people. We have to stop pretending that young people are some sort of indivisible homogeneous interest group because they are not. We have both younger and older representatives of such and different social groups, interest associations. We have young right-wing, young left-wing, young church moral propagandists, young capitalists, young workers, young greens, young neoliberals, young entrepreneurs and, of course, young socialists. As far as interest groups and conflict situations are concerned, so are their representatives among young people. When we empower young people economically and socially, when we provide them with suitable, decent and safe jobs, when we create an environment where young people will not have to rush from one job to another, when we create conditions that young people will not have to live hand in hand when they can afford their own lives, then it will also prove to be an improved political and civil participation. Therefore, the apparent inclusion of young people in the ESF makes no sense. The only effect of such a measure would be to create the appearance of young people involved in political decision-making. But what involvement is there if they are represented by a government youth representative by an unknown key? Of course not. Moreover, the government would receive only one vote in the ESF, where the Government and representatives of capital, on the one hand, and on the other hand the representatives of workers, were likely to receive only one vote. The tendency of the ESF to capital has a number of negative effects – tightening the belt at the weakest, reducing public services, increasing exaggeration on one hand and tax breaks on capital and the richest on the other. Young people need to be involved in politics based on their political beliefs, and the task of the country is to make it possible for all people to live a life worth living. From free public education, work that is paid enough to be able to live from it, to a safe age and, of course, decent pensions. These objectives cannot be achieved through virtual solutions such as those proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u154	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! The proposal for a recommendation to the Government, which we are discussing for the second time today, is simple and clear. The government should appoint youth representatives to the Economic and Social Council. The proposal was extensively substantiated by the proposer. He highlighted in particular the decision of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, which called on the Government to set up a Youth Council by the end of 2014. In December 2015, the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Student Organisation of Slovenia called on the Government and the social partners to change the definition of social dialogue in Slovenia. Representatives of young people and representatives of older people should also be included in the Economic and Social Council. Young people want to be heard and to be a key and equal partner in social dialogue. The proposaler and I agree that social dialogue in Slovenia is insufficient to respond to the needs and challenges of young people. This is mainly due to the fact that youth representatives are not directly involved in the Economic and Social Council. We are living at a time when young people face high levels of unemployment and find it difficult to enter the labour market where they are also in an unequal position. It is incomprehensible that the Economic and Social Council itself rejects the initiatives of young people or their representatives and does not allow them to present their views on the issues directly concerned, such as the consideration of the government proposal for a White Paper on the pension system. The proposal has the support of young people and Members of the New Slovenia – we support Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I'm closing the 44th item of the agenda. We're moving to 45. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recommended to the Government of Slovenia for the provision of social protection for socially vulnerable individuals and companies before the proceedings. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Mr. France Trčko. On 4 May, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u156	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, all present! Surely each forced action means distress for the individual and his family. In the media, we can see quite a few stories in connection with this, which has recently been the most receptive judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Vaskrsić. The proposer shall make four recommendations relating to legal arrangements, adequate insurance for vulnerable families staying in rental apartments and the preparation of a strategy to address poverty and social exclusion. The proposal underlines the need to ensure adequate protection against those individuals and families who are socially disadvantaged. This would ensure respect for the principle of the social state and the right to the dignity of individuals. The problem of the free choice of means of execution being established is also highlighted as important. In the event of enforcement into real estate, we cannot go beyond the fact that the right of the creditor to judicial protection is also constitutionally established. The State must also provide the creditor with an effective enforcement procedure in which it exercises its right. In addition, it should be noted that the applicable arrangements in the Law on Enforcement and Insurance give the debtor considerable opportunity to prevent potential real estate sales arising from real estate enforcement, in particular in the case of payment of a disproportionately low claim, agreement with the creditor for the enforcement decision, repayment of the debt, determination of the minimum value by which the property may be sold, the possibility of the debtor to reside as a tenant for another 3 years, and so on. In order to ensure adequate protection for socially disadvantaged individuals and families, additional solutions are envisaged in the framework of the new Law on Enforcement and Insurance in cases where enforcement takes place on the part of the debtor's apartment or the home of the debtors who are in social distress. The changes are moving towards more active inclusion of social work centres, which will be informed as soon as possible of the start of implementation, allowing debtors, with the help of all stakeholders, to resolve their difficulties as quickly as possible and in an appropriate manner. In addition, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been active in this area, which, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the three largest humanitarian organisations in Slovenia, has already begun to carry out a specific pilot project on the basis of which a set of systemic solutions will be prepared to assist internally displaced individuals and families. We will not support this recommendation in the Group of the Modern Centre Party because of all the above-mentioned proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u157	Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u158	Your Honor! The proposal for a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure adequate protection for socially disadvantaged individuals and families against work is considered by the Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation on the ground. The fact is that unacceptable and unacceptable situations are taking place in the field of the jobs of the poorest citizens and citizens. To move the family out of their own house for a debt of 130 euros, of course, it is totally unacceptable. That is why changes to legislation in this area are needed. The situation in the area of poverty is catastrophic in our country and poverty is increasing, especially in the most vulnerable groups of the population, and these are older. In its opinion on these recommendations, the Government itself notes that by 2020 the Government wants to achieve a reduction in the number of people living in risk of poverty or social exclusion by 40 000 in relation to the 2008 indicator, thus reducing the number of people living in risk of poverty and social exclusion to 321 000 or less. It follows from this data that we now have 361 000 citizens and citizens living at risk of poverty or social exclusion, but of course this means that they simply cannot pay even the bills coming in the current month, let alone make sure that they can eat and live a life worthy of man. The government of Mira Cerar really knows nothing but to say that it will be better in the future and that solutions will be adopted in 2020, 2021, 2022, when, of course, these governments will be long gone. It is also a fact that the mandate is due to expire, and so far it has proved what it can do, and it is that poverty is increasing, the flourishing corruption, the privileged live as small gods, to create and strengthen conditions for the division into first-class and second-class citizens and citizens, to increase waiting periods in health care, bank thieves continue to enjoy stolen money, the rule of law does not work, honesty, morality and ethics of this government are just words written on paper, justice and so on. Therefore, I must conclude that we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party against this decision, which says that the procedure for the proposed recommendations has been completed, because we believe that the recommendations of the proposer could be improved in such a way that all the members of the group can be united on such an important topic as we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u159	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The proposed recommendations that we are considering today give the impression that our assignments are going on in a mass and without mercy. In the Desus Group, we believe that much more attention should be given to this area than has been the case so far. Being employed at home is a very sensitive thing for all involved, especially when it comes to evicting people who are in severe material distress, especially when they find themselves in it without their own guilt. Posting can leave lasting psychological consequences for children and adults who experience it, which can lead to health problems. It is also for this reason that efforts should be made to ensure that there are no activities. However, if they are inevitable for the protection of the interests of creditors, the State or the local community is responsible for ensuring that no person who has been employed and cannot, for justified reasons, provide himself with social security and adequate housing, would be without the roof over his head and the assistance necessary for the survival of those persons. In the Desus Group we are aware of the problems and problems in this area. The execution process itself is certainly cruel and unforgivable for the affected persons, although by law the debtor has a number of possibilities to prevent the most extreme end of execution. The enforcement procedure itself expects a type of debtor's activity to avoid a creditor's proposal and not to be thrown on the road. But what if these expected activities are in many cases not on the part of the debtor himself. People on the verge of despair do not find themselves in a multitude of legal regulations. In view of the above, it is necessary to seek an additional path by which, in addition to the measures it has taken, for example, as part of the debt write-off package, the State could further help to eliminate the unloved, sad business stories. But it's moving. Let me mention that in preparation for the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance – in fact, we have already received the coalition MPs to deal with – which is supposed to solve the problems we have witnessed in recent months. The option proposed by the Ministry of Justice will, of course, be welcome for a debtor who is not alone, who needs not only material assistance, but in particular someone who will help him find a solution to his problems. Of course, this cannot be done by a court, but it can and must also be done by social work centres within the framework of their basic mission. In the Desus Group, we welcome the inclusion of social work centres in the execution process, but of course without the assistance of local communities, from which a greater involvement in dealing with citizens and citizens will not be possible. More involvement is expected mainly in solving the housing problem of economically weaker citizens and young families. In the Desus Group on self-implementation, in addition to the above, we expect further solutions. Last but not least, those ordered by the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of the Vaskrsić case. It is clear, however, that the interest of the creditor must also be safeguarded, but there should be no violations of human rights, which unfortunately can happen today. The right of people to housing is, however, a matter of respect for human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u161	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u162	Your Honor! No one can lose their home because of debts disproportionate to the value of real estate. That's what we're all about, I hope. It is truly unacceptable that these cases, even if only in a small percentage, come at all. Ignorance, perhaps ignorance, is the main source of this, but it is a truly extreme measure. Thus, all things should be done, all other options should be exhausted, in order to prevent its execution. The current enforcement and insurance regime provides the debtor with considerable options to prevent the sale of the property, particularly in the case of a disproportionately low claim, and allows the sale of the debtor's property in which it resides, even in other cases, to be an extreme option. But unfortunately, as it is said, people are too easy to wait too long because they are ashamed, afraid that they simply melt and can't help themselves. Official institutions are reluctant to address such small initial amounts, which, with any State aid or assistance from humanitarian organisations immediately, become large debts which are very difficult to pay. And that, in our view, is the biggest problem that needs to be addressed first. It should also be pointed out that the real estate and distribution of families, including those vulnerable ones, are carried out for disproportionate debts. Houses worth 80,000 euros are sold for debts of 100 euros. I believe it's hard for each of us to apologize, marriage up or down. The law is today such that the creditor can propose enforcement of any debtor's property, including real estate, regardless of the amount of the claim, and the court is bound to the creditor's proposal. And although the debtor’s court is legally instructing him about his options, such cases are still taking place. The possibilities for preventing the execution and sale of real estate already exist today, but this is what is happening, and this is a problem. People don't know enough about their options. For this reason, we are already looking forward to the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which contains additional solutions for cases where enforcement takes place on the home of the debtor or on the house of the debtors who are in social distress. The amendment proposes that the executing court inform the centre for social work of the start of enforcement of the debtor's apartment or apartment house, which will be able to propose a half-year execution order and help the debtor to repay its debt during this period, especially if it is low. The Centre for Social Work will be informed, on an official basis, that the person is in a difficult position and that he needs help. Even though we have not supported the recommendations, social democrats are still aware of the pressure of people and will propose or support any good solution that will deliver concrete results. The solution envisaged by the amendment of the law is, in our view, good. A number of others will be needed, in particular with the aim of raising awareness and familiarising people with the rights, opportunities and empowering them to do as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u163	Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! I will not repeat what we wrote in the recommendation, because I had a rather lonely debate at the meeting of my mother's working body, the rest of the opposition then had some other obligations, and of all others, on behalf of the coalition with the proposer, i.e. with me on behalf of the Joint Left Group, on the other hand, on the other hand, some legal issues were somewhat debated only by Dr. Jasna Murgel. I'll start different. Yesterday morning, I attended a conference at the Faculty of Social Sciences, the title of which was the Future of the Slovenian State of Prosperity. There have been quite a few ladies there, ma'am, including some of my fellow residents who have spent their entire lives dealing with the problem of poverty, more than two decades, but those with a little more experience have once dealt with the issue of social well-being. Dr Vesna Leskošek, the dean of the Faculty of Social Work, very clearly warned and pointed out that during the crisis we had produced quite a lot of poverty, that we had greatly reduced contributions to social security, and very clearly warned that other countries had increased these contributions in the crisis. And now I will not let myself go into what governments were in power at the time. From one of the previous views it somehow sounded like we were doing more theater than it was, as if these operations were small. "We have daily assignments today for a thousand 200 euros," Anita Ogulin. “We are currently solving 5 cases or trying to prevent 5 operations in Maribor,” UP-ornik Boris Krabonja. UP-ornik is the company that deals with it. “Deployment on the stress scale is the highest”, Dr. Srna Mandič, one of the leading experts in the field of housing policies and welfare issues. Ms Anita Ogulin also said that they currently have 12 situations, 12 operations. All of you have spoken so “young people, young people” when it comes to people who finish either primary school or high school, you probably know what a “pleasant” situation these are. If I may say so, the Slovenian feminists Dr. Maca Yogan called for personal responsibility. We have a so-called consolidated poverty, which is particularly high in older women because of the so-called pension gap, because women's pensions are 25% lower according to their own household. Single - parent families, elderly women, and families with multiple children who are hindered by unemployment are very risky. Dr. Nada Stropnik of the Institute of Economic Research pointed out that the limit of 60% of the media is arbitrarily defined as a threshold for poverty, that there is no contact with disadvantaged people, no terrain, no work, no listening. And poverty eradication policies must be policies to address structural reasons; in short, it is a question of redistribution. She's a colleague of mine. Martina Trbanc of the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out what I had already warned the ministerial team on several occasions – an unrelated treatment of people in distress that is passive. Mrs Ogulin warned that nowhere in Europe poverty is as stigmatised as it is with us, that it is self-exclusion, that it is a matter of disastrous family relations and that it is very difficult to get out. And we know what's going on with the social work centers you mentioned yourself. In fact, what? SD and Desus are fighting about who's gonna be bossing around, and that's what the kids know. The government says they're running pilot projects. I'm going to come to the 31st session of the National Assembly in a flight suit because I have these words pilot projects enough, and that's not funny. At the same time, we have between 50 and 60 thousand people who are not medically insured who are excluded from this system. We've got something for a bono ambulance that you're more convenient to them than you're taking care of. Social Democrats say you will support any good proposal, but at the same time do not support it. It's a red alarm, people, and we're going to be doing some pilot projects, and the department secretary is going to be sharing some brochures in inappropriate places. You're inappropriate for this policy, that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u165	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u166	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! Legislation in the area of protection of debtors and tenants of dwellings threatened with employment is indeed weak and does not guarantee the principle of the social state and the right to the dignity of individuals. Evidence of this claim is the case, such as the media-known Vaskrsić case, because of the EUR 124 debt they sold him a family house. Thank God he recently achieved justice, not in domestic courts, but in the European Court of Human Rights, which was awarded EUR 85,000 in compensation. Marriage should be such that it is just and that people feel that they are equal before marriage. At the moment, it is felt that some black constructions can simply legalize or force legalization, while others, in general, tend to be weaker economically, are becoming more rapid. Members of New Slovenia have been alerting the Ministry of Labour, led by the Social Democrats, to the problem of poverty throughout our work in Parliament. Not only have the Social Democrats failed to eradicate the risk of poverty among the Slovenian population in all the years leading, but on the contrary, in 2015, according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, about 287 thousand people lived under the poverty risk threshold in Slovenia. Is this a social state, as the Social Democrats and the current government imagine? The proposed recommendations impose the right measures on the government and the ministries, but the proposer does not propose comprehensive and effective measures. We Christian Democrats believe that the best social policy is the highest possible employment in the highest possible quality jobs. It is also necessary to regulate this sensitive area through regulations in order to prevent the abuse of social policy measures. We do not oppose the recommendations of the Christian Democrats because there is a real need for legal regulation, but above all it is time to tackle poverty.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u167	Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u168	Your Honor! We have before us a debate on a topic that is ongoing and will remain so in the future. For many citizens and citizens, however, it is also very painful, for losing home for any reason is a great test that puts an almost unimaginable burden on individuals and families. We hear many times in the public that Slovenia is not a legal and social state, that social services and the judiciary do not work effectively enough or too slowly. Is that true? I don't think so. The social state is defined through programmes belonging to the social policy area. This ensures minimum standards for health, education and education, work and housing policy. It is also the task of the State to provide for its citizens in particular when they are in difficult situations, but this does not mean that the State has to support them, with the exception of part of the impossible, but to encourage and direct individuals to live better, while ensuring that social policy rights are guaranteed to all and that they must also be guaranteed judicial protection. I agree that enforcement as such poses a great deal of distress for the debtor, especially when the judicial procedure requires the use of extreme assets such as real estate enforcement. However, we must be aware of the fact that the deployment does not take place tomorrow, because the real estate enforcement procedure is not a short-term procedure. In such proceedings, the Court shall carry out a number of enforcement acts against which the debtor has the option of objecting or complaining. It is important that the State, through its mechanisms, properly educates and informs the individual where to seek assistance in a critical situation, either at a social work centre or at a free legal aid court department. Thus, the debtor himself will be able to prevent a number of difficult situations. Although we do not support the proposals made by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are pleased to talk about this, because it is the only way that we can find constructive solutions together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u169	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Group of Six Members and Members with their first signed magi. Matthew Tonin. I'm sorry, this is a mistake. The proposer shall be a group of six Members and Members. Sometimes you read faster than you think. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members of Parliament are the first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I almost thought the government would surprise me, but unfortunately it was just a mistake. The amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we have prepared in Novi Slovenije and which we have already submitted to parliamentary treatment for the second time, brings two key innovations. Both will significantly improve the business environment and provide more jobs. For the first time, the amendment allows double status for retired independent entrepreneurs, and for the second time, the law limits the reimbursement to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia due to the consequences of accidents at work. First, a few words about double status. Many citizens who qualify for retirement want to retire and for various reasons continue to work. The activities they have carried out so far also want to be carried out in the future. There are also those who want to open espas and provide other services at a time when they are retired. The current Slovenian legislation provides that pensioners must decide whether to take the pension they deserve and close their espas or to give up a certain part of their pension in order to continue their activities. In New Slovenia, we feel that in this way we needlessly restrict citizens, especially pensioners who still want to work, maintain their business and jobs or work to improve their social situation. With our proposal for amendments to these independent entrepreneurs, we allow them to receive a full, well-deserved, 100 % old pension while opening espies at the same time, paying full contributions for full-time work. To make the proposal in the right direction, we are also encouraged by the Government's opinion in the White Paper on pensions, which clearly states that this is one of the solutions to be implemented in the future. The imposition of obstacles to the non-implementation of dual status is harmful for citizens and budget revenues, as is also the case with specific data, which, only in January and February 2016, after the last modification of the regime and the definitive abolition of the possibility of double status for certain categories of pensioners in the basic register, deleted a thousand 942 esps. According to the local authorities, when espians had the opportunity to continue their activities while at the same time receiving only 20% of their pension, the majority decided on a second option, namely that they had closed their activities or transferred them to another person and received a hundred percent pension. In some ways, the country has lost a thousand,942 individuals who have paid full contributions or at least part of their contributions to the pension and health allowance. The second point that we are amending in this law is the limitation of the reimbursements that the pension and disability insurance institution may require from employers due to the consequences of accidents at work. Such a proposal has already been tabled several times by Nova Slovenija, unfortunately we have failed because you do not want to understand the essence and the point of our proposal. In this attempt, we have further elaborated this law, drank it even more clearly, and wrote very clearly that when an employer causes an accident, an accident on purpose, I stress, on purpose, it must take over the costs of all pensions and treatments in its entirety. However, if these accidents are due to unfortunate circumstances, we place a 20-fold limit on the minimum pension base for both legal and natural persons, which means nominally around €15 000. With the support of this law, we will take a major step forward towards improving the business environment and more jobs, so I invite you to support this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u171	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u172	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The government has examined the proposed amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act for reasons and reasons, but it does not support the proposal. By means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Tonino, amendments are proposed with regard to the so-called dual pensioner status and changes with regard to the employer's liability rule to the pension insurance institution in the event that the insured person suffers damage and, on the basis of this, enforces rights under the general rules of insurance. I would like to point out in the opening, however, because it is also important for the debate that both the double status of independent entrepreneurs and the issue of the compensation claims of the institution to employers are subject to a constitutional judgment which has not yet been decided by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to date in this part. Nevertheless, even in the event of a possible change of legislation before the end of the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, changes to the so-called dual status of pensioners should be made with discretion and arrangements should be in place that are identical to those of all insured persons. We stress that this requires systemic solutions within the framework of legislation and problems cannot be resolved by simply amending one article, especially in a proposed way, which is at odds with itself in some way and contrary to other provisions of the applicable law. We believe that changes cannot be implemented in the proposed way, but we particularly want to stress that this is an issue to be discussed, and this is also intended to be regulated in the White Paper on Pensions, where, as one of the specific challenges for the further development of pension insurance, there is also an open issue of the simultaneous receipt of pensions and the maintenance of employment, self-employment, but for all insurers equally, under the same conditions, not just one category of insurers. With regard to the issue of so-called regression claims, however, we explain that the proposal proposes amendments 190, 191 and 193 of the current law, underlining the unlimited disproportionate liability of employers for the damage to be caused by changes in compensation liability. The proposed legislation states that, by amending the law, they wish to impose the employer's liability for damage only if the damage is caused on purpose or because of gross negligence. It should be pointed out that, in accordance with Article 191, employers are responsible for failing to carry out safety and health measures at work or other measures which are prescribed or designed for human safety, even if they have concluded a working relationship without prior medical examination with a person. Not only is this because, as a result of this, all other insured persons are not liable disproportionately to the damage to the worker we cover if you want to, because in all cases of pension and disability contributions, all other insured persons are liable, in no case shall employers be liable to disproportionately, without limitation to any minimum error, since in all cases the identification and enforcement of compensation is determined whether all claims of compensation are made under the general rules of civil law, including misconduct, causation between harmful conduct and injury, but also taking into account shared liability when deciding on the amount of compensation. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal of the law. We believe that the proposal of the law opposes the rules of general indemnity, opposes the rules of safety and health at work that we must all work towards together, and we consider the proposed dual status regime only for independent entrepreneurs to be lacking, and above all, it is contrary to the principle of equality. The government does not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u173	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marijan Pojbič, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u174	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was tabled by the NSI Group for consideration in the National Assembly. The law proposes two solutions. Firstly, the proposal to regulate the dual status of insured persons for pension and disability insurance in such a way that each insured person has the opportunity to continue his or her activity and receive a full old-age pension when he fulfils the conditions for it, or when he or she receives a new pension, without the already acquired pension being reduced. Secondly, it is proposed that the employer's liability, as determined by the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, would be acceptable if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence. However, in the event that the injury is caused by the worker, or in the event of minor negligence, it is not. The law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in its first reading for the following reasons. We agree that the pension is a right to be acquired when the conditions are met on the basis of the contributions paid. It follows that everyone, irrespective of the activity he carries out, has the right to a pension when he fulfils the conditions for doing so. Where the pensioner continues to carry out activities, this means only additional payments to the pension and disability allowance and additional value for the social product. Many pension recipients do not choose to carry out their activities or do activities in black because their pensions would have been reduced disproportionately depending on how much work they would have to do in order to make up for their pension. The current regime also provides for the possibility of abuse of the right to a partial pension, since the payment of a partial pension depends on the amount of hours paid and not on the actual payment to carry out the activity. In our view, the proposed solution deserves further legislative treatment, in particular to verify its financial impact, which, according to experience from other EU countries, should even be positive. However, the second solution proposed by this law has been dealt with several times in the National Assembly and has not been sufficiently supportive. The aim is to relieve the employer of the regression claim by the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in the event of damage to the worker due to the minor negligence of the employer. We are fully aware of the fact that the expansion of the liability of compensation affects mainly smaller craftsmen and smaller private employers, for whom such a regression requirement of the institution can also mean the closure of the activity. The solution is partly acceptable to us, but only if it is clearly determined, on the other hand, that the disabled or other insurance worker will in any event be compensated for the damage caused by the minor negligence of the employer in the injury to the work process. Further to the legislative process, better solutions could also be sought in cooperation with the social partners, namely the solution that the worker would not be deprived in any way of the negligence of the employer, and not because of the minor mistakes that occur in each work process. I call again on the other parliamentary groups to support the further legislative process and we are working together to find solutions that will be acceptable to all; workers, employers and those who wish to continue their activities even after meeting the conditions for an old pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u175	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! The constantly recurring themes and the re-examination of practically identical legislative proposals at meetings of the National Assembly, which have already been rejected so many times by parliamentary committees or at meetings of the National Assembly, are clearly a fashionable fly of this mandate. And the closer we get to the elections, the more there are these cases of empty running. I am sorry that I am starting to feel this way about this bill, but I also think it is a waste of time that we have been repeating what things have been spent hours and hours of time on this matter over and over again, for a third time. The time will probably come for the fourth, perhaps even the fifth, as the time for the next elections is fast approaching. With regard to the position of the two proposed amendments to this amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the opinion of the Desus Group remains unchanged. As far as the regression claims are concerned, this has also been said three times already, in an attempt to amend the Health and Insurance Act in our Group of Members, we have expressed the view that the proposal is unacceptable in this part, as it is too much on the part of employers who are in relation to the worker in one way or another a stronger party. It is therefore in the interests of economic interests, which we cannot support, both Members of Parliament and Members of Desus. We have also been critical of the fact that the proposal we are considering today does not end with the preventive role of the system of safety and health at work, as it is precisely in preventing injury at work that the threat of compensation prevents it from violating the rules on safety and health at work. At that time, we also stated that the whole logic of compensation relations should be taken into account. This general principle has always been laid down in such a way as to require greater care for those who are active and who are employers than for lay persons or individuals. Notwithstanding the relatively low level of regression claims or subsequent actions compared with those made by the Health Insurance Office or the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, we also stressed that the loss of funds resulting from the proposed change should be covered by solidarity, meaning that the difference should be covered by all insurers as well as by the State budget. The second part of the proposal refers to the double status of retired independent entrepreneurs. This is also unacceptable to us. In doing so, the DeSUS Group attaches its reasons to the Government for rejecting the bill. They have already been sufficiently clearly presented in the Government's opinion on the draft law, so I will not repeat them here. The DeSUS Group will also not support the proposal for the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the third instance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u177	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u178	Your Honor, once again, welcome. We have on the table, for the third time, another of the substantively identical laws that touch on the regression claims. As the first in our Group of Members, we will not support this for exactly the same reasons that we have already given at the previous meeting in our position on the proposal for the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. Let's do it again. This novelty also attempts to follow the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and unilaterally, past the agreements, to regulate the area of compensation claims in a way that limits the employer's liability for compensation. They shall, through their associations and chambers, seek to amend the rules under which damage is to be recovered on purpose, on the grounds of gross negligence or due to the failure or inadequacy of the measures prescribed for human security. What New Slovenia proposes is the employer's commitment to responsibility when it fails to implement the envisaged measures for safety and health at work, resulting in an accident at work, which is wrong. It is wrong to allow for negligence or intentional abandonment of the provision of safety standards at work, which may lead to a risk to their health or even a threat to their lives. Regressive claims as such are an instrument to try to prevent this while at the same time achieving an increase in the overall level of safety and health at work. Allowing violations of this concept brings us back to another era. But as for dual status, we can say the following. Retirement as such is not compulsory. It's up to everyone. However, he may also decide to continue his work. However, the fact is that at the same time someone cannot be a pensioner, receive a pension and be employed at the same time, have espies, perform business functions in an economic society. Why? Because self-retirement means that conditions have arisen when someone for age or other reasons is no longer able or able to work and the concept as such is also designed to protect people from the fact that, for these or those, mostly social reasons, their working time is prolonged while at the same time allowing them to fail to ensure an adequate standard of living for these people. The fact is that some want to continue working for such or other reasons, and a discussion and discussion in the White Paper on pension reform or on the modernisation of the pension system is also open. On the basis of all this, we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u179	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thanks again, Vice President. In this law, two solutions are largely unacceptable to us. In particular, we are opposed to reducing employers' compensation for disability, because this is not only unfair but will also reduce adequate safety at work. While the proposer repeatedly reiterates that the proposal does not change safety standards. That's right. It doesn't change them. It also reduces the pressure for employers to enforce these safety standards in practice. Why do you think different IPSs in Cyprus, for example, or cleaning services throughout the country operating according to mafia principles are taking security measures? Definitely not out of kindness or because they care about security, but mostly because they fear penalties and damages. If you limit the damages and reduce this coercion, we'll have more damage at work. My colleague Lach spoke frankly about the real problem at the previous meeting. I quote: “We have a type of work where you simply cannot be competitive if you take all security measures into account.” End of quote. Just look, this problem would be solved by socialists very simply. Security companies just shut down. However, NSI proposes that the entire system be adapted precisely to those companies that are at risk of security. I'm sorry, but this is legalized security dumping, and we're against it. We also do not support the proposal for dual status. We have a solidarity and pension system for workers who stop working because of their age. If they work longer than the law requires, they even receive 20% of their pension. However, if we accepted the NSI proposal, we would also pay full pensions with more than ten employees. They could postpone management to employees while at the same time paying full pensions to them by the whole company. More. The Employment Office has also warned us that, as proposed by NSI, an employer registered as espa could receive even two subsidies in the event of a longer illness, on the one hand, a hospital allowance from the healthcare institution and on the other, a pension from the pension. But this has nothing to do with solidarity, but it's just a simple income. Since we have listened at the previous session to how the limitation of compensation would benefit fine workers, I will stop at that. Firstly, the NSI proposal would limit compensation for all employers, irrespective of their status. Of course, reprimands are not employers, they do not employ other workers, because they themselves do not have the status of an employee. Another time. We can only help the fine - tuned workers by removing the chastity work. We do not need a pension to do this, but we need more powers of labour inspection and protection for risky professions, such as drivers, for example. In the United Left, we've done both, and in these cases, the NSI didn't support us. Even if we look back, we'll see that taking NSI for nicknames is just a bluff. NSI had two key ministers in the first Janšev government: finance and work. Of course, they also appointed their director, Mr. Timer, in Luka Koper. Then we could say we stopped IPSs, which are ordinary mafia groups, but they're not. They preferred to watch the Timer harm the state company, for which he was miraculously even imprisoned. So much for the fight of the Slovenian right against leniency, but of course Cerar's government in this regard is nothing better. But that's another debate. In our view, this law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u181	The position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats will be moved by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u182	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In our core programme, Christian Democrats advocate the inclusion of European standards in our labour law regarding the provision of working conditions, working hours, leave, protection at work, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, working conditions that go beyond these standards must be addressed in social dialogue between employers and workers or their associations or unions. The State must invest more resources in promoting health at work, raising awareness and informing employers and workers. This should result in fewer accidents and consequently less costs for the treatment or payment of pension and disability benefits. In Novi Slovenija we support the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance, which we have re-invested in parliamentary treatment. The key solutions presented by the novel are the following. First time. Regulation of the scope of the Regression Applications of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, so that the employer is liable only if he violates the rules on safety and health at work on purpose or because of gross negligence. When the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of minor negligence, it is not. Another time. The legal limitation of the amount of compensation, on a maximum of 20 times the lowest pension base, except in the case of a premeditation. Third time. Arrangements for double status. The rescheduling of the pension and disability insurance institution to employers is regulated by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2. The regulation is similar to the regulation of the regression claims of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia to employers. We have already discussed them, and the proposal of New Slovenia was unfortunately not adopted. The problem in the area of excessive and unpredictable regression claims has not been the case since yesterday. Traders and small entrepreneurs have been alerting them for years. The fact is that the current legislation and practice are such that a specific employer can have well-ordered internal acts, rules and education of workers in the field of safety and health at work, and workers can be well-educated in all these rules, and this may be due to non-compliance with instructions, non-use of safety equipment or other work accidents. And in the worst case case, a small employer, who is generally also economically weaker, may face such a high regressive requirement by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance that his existence is threatened. Let us note in particular that in the event of a closure of trades or businesses, all, both the employer and the worker, are out of work and income. In the case of independent entrepreneurs who respond with all their assets, whole families may be at risk. The second essential reason for supporting the adoption of the law by New Slovenia is the fact that, by limiting the regressive claims to a maximum of 20 times the minimum pension base, the basis for the creation of insurance products by commercial insurance companies will be regulated. Currently, craftsmen and entrepreneurs cannot insure the risk of regressive claims in commercial insurance companies. As for the dual status arrangement. Christian Democrats believe that the current solution is criminal, creating inequalities before the law. In our view, each insured person must be able to continue or establish his or her activity, while receiving the full retirement pension to which he or she is entitled. Why would the state make it impossible to work for someone who would still want to work after retirement? We estimate that this can only be good for the pension fund, as the full contributions of these insurers will be an additional inflow, which the state has given up with the government novelty. We also estimate that such a way of resolving dual status is more appropriate than the one recently introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it encourages insured persons who would like to remain active even after meeting the conditions for an old or early retirement to do so legally. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u183	Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u184	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The solutions envisaged in today's amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act have already been discussed in the National Assembly last year. Novela is referring to two solutions. The first solution concerns the regulation of the dual status of insurers or independent entrepreneurs in a way that allows for the simultaneous receipt of the entire pension and the maintenance of independent activities to an unlimited extent. The second solution, however, refers to the regression claims of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office relating to the employer's liability when there is damage at work or occupational illness due to non-compliance with the safety and health rules at work. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance may require compensation for damage caused by disability, physical impairment, the need for foreign assistance and service or the death of an insured person on purpose or because of negligence. In this case, the novice suggests that the employer's liability should be excluded if it is a matter of ease and that the amount of compensation should be reduced to 20 times the lowest pension base. Restricting compensation upwards following a new proposal from the law would no longer be possible when the employer acted on purpose. It is also proposed to limit the employer's liability for the worker when the damage occurred intentionally and in this case it is obliged to settle the cause. The proposed solutions relating to the dual status of independent entrepreneurs are considered to be comparable to those in other EU countries. Here again, we find that EU members have different arrangements for this area. In some cases, dual status is limited in some way by profit from the pursuit of an activity or additional earnings when receiving a pension at the same time, in the case of Germany, or by any new employment contract, in the case of Poland, and there is no difference in the treatment of independent entrepreneurs and workers in the labour relationship, in the case of Austria. In this regard, it should also be pointed out that the possibility of maintaining a separate activity while receiving a partial pension or payment of a 20% early or old pension is pending before the Constitutional Court and, for this reason, amending pension legislation in the work relating to dual status is not appropriate in our view. However, in the case of regressive claims, we reiterate that the current pension and disability insurance arrangements include both liability for the damage caused by gross negligence and general negligence. The format of the fault is determined in accordance with Article 135 of the Bond Code. However, the cause of the injury is required to demonstrate that it acted with special care in its handling of the injury. It should also be pointed out that the employer does not respond when the full liability is on the employee’s side after the applicable scheme, since the pre-condition for the employer’s liability is also a causal link between the illegal conduct or omission and the occurrence of injury. Finally, let us point out once again that expenditure from the pension and disability allowance which is not covered by the payments is covered by the State budget. Responsibilities and the proposed limitation on the amount of compensation up so far represent a burden on other insurers. We will not support this bill in the Modern Centre Party Group because of that proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Saša Tabaković again has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u186	Your Honor! Thank you very much. Both of these solutions, as has been said in this longer treatise before the counter, have been discussed several times in this esteemed National Assembly, and this time my debate will probably not be longer to the satisfaction of all those present. The debate on dual status has been ongoing for several years. In fact, it is simply a matter of some two concepts, or two, of how we really understand the pension system. At present, the pension system is understood as the fact that an individual is entitled to a pension when he is no longer able to do his job properly. The causes can be different. It's usually about age and stuff. So in this sense we have the concept of a pension when someone completes a full-time job to retire and then enjoys age with this pension. It is also true that this pension system is solidarity-oriented. On the other hand, we also have the view that it is a pension scheme which is understood to be some kind of long-term savings for the age to which an individual is entitled when he completes certain years and reaches that pension or pension, if I may put it that way, is justified, irrespective of the fact that he is still able to work. Interestingly, in its proposal for a law, the applicant does not state why double status should be possible or good only for espouses, nor should it apply to others, i.e. employees, if we are already discussing equality before the law. The question raised by such a proposal or an extension is what confusion would then be. Someone has completed a full retirement period, retired, and then, for example, if we are saying that this would be true both for espionage and for employees, he will be employed for full-time work and then normally continue to pay his contributions. I am also talking about the problem from the point of view that, of course, we are making contributions in order to have certain rights at our age, i.e. pension rights, and I wonder if someone would retire and then re-pay contributions, to the extent that they would then be entitled to those rights. So what does that mean? In order for him to retire once again, he would probably have to give up. So I think it's kind of a confusing question, or certainly more complex than it does at first sight. Above all, what is one of my personal opinions on dual status is that if I think about this other concept, which is already being followed in my programme by New Slovenia in some way, I am not saying that it is literally such that pension savings would actually be savings for old age, which would then eventually mean that each individual would pay exclusively for his own pension, which would lead to some non-solidarity system as we know it today. I regret that, on the basis of such a concept, I also cannot agree on certain steps to be taken in such a concept. In view of the fact that it has been mentioned that the proposal needs to be understood well-intentioned and I recognize that I personally see it that way, but I think, if we look at the light of not just continuing one's work, so continue some tradition as a craftsman, that there is also a question, let's say, someone who would be able to help himself in this way probably also in a profitable way, given that, for example, his pension would be very low, but it seems to me that this solution, given that we are talking about working people, is somehow appropriate in the current legislation. However, it is also true that this understanding of dual status is currently in the Constitutional Court proceedings and it is not in fact appropriate for the legislative body, in this case the National Assembly, to be more specifically defined by amending legislation, until, of course, the Constitutional Court's decision, particularly in the light of the consequences of the future, is clear. As for the regression claims, I think there has been a lot of clarification in these discussions. The matter is also very clear in the Bond Code, which requires the cause of the damage to prove that in his conduct the damage was caused, he acted with due care. The Office shall determine in each case the actual situation and circumstances of the injurious event and shall then take place in accordance with a specific procedure for proof of guilt. Of course, the employer’s responsibility is not on the employer’s side if the worker contributed to the injury, which is then also taken into account in determining the compensation, especially if the employee’s liability is entirely on the employee’s side. Of course, then the employer pays absolutely nothing, which means that if there is no causal link, there is no liability for compensation. I do not believe that violations of safety and health regulations at work can be tolerated. Especially in view of the picture of the protection of workers' rights when we talk about infringements. So, in the light of that, it's actually more difficult for me to soften these rules. I myself do not believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u187	The representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Thank you for all your opinions, too. I believe you're getting nervous about why Nova Slovenija is always making the same laws. Believe that because these problems exist and are acute and affected, they constantly alert us to them. If these matters were systematically regulated, as promised by the Ministry, Nova Slovenija would not do so. However, we hope that, despite the rejection you are predicting, you will hear us and that the ministry will take measures that will be implemented. You yourself said that the white book contained this dual status, that this could be solved in this way or even injury at work. Look, we've talked about disproportionates before. There was a deposit due to an unpaid bill of EUR 124. We're very sorry for him here. I find that every pity they bear on account of such or other circumstances. I also feel sorry for those entrepreneurs who can do so because there was an accident in their company. And because of the gross negligence, deliberate negligence, it is right for them to cover this damage. In the face of a slight negligence that can happen, however, an accident can be serious, but only a slight negligence can be blamed, and it can also cost the employer a lot, a lot. The employer cannot be insured in insurance companies for this purpose, but he is already paying insurance into the injury fund at work. And from this fund, this could be covered to a certain extent. We are only proposing here a limit of €15 000 to the nominal value so that this employer does not come to a standstill so as not to seize his house so that his family will not be on the road. So there's a limit. Not in case he did it on purpose, but I've said it many times before, an accident never rests, and it can happen to anyone. The consequences, however, can be very severe with little carelessness. But those who violate legislation that mistreat their workers who do not comply with the laws, please, we have inspections to do their job. We do not protect such ones in New Slovenia. We are talking here about disproportionateity in the event of an accident that was not deliberately caused, but has happened. But it's got some serious consequences that can get somebody in a ditch. Speaking of double status. Look, we all know that a large part of Slovenian pensioners have very low pensions. Anyone who wants to continue to have their own company or who has fulfilled the conditions for a full pension, I think he should get it, that he must have it because he has earned it. We are not talking about those who do not have the conditions met, but we are talking about those who have paid that pension. However, we know that despite full - time work, many pensions are very low and people are hard to survive. That's what we talked about in the previous marriage. “The poverty of older people, widows, single people and so on” said Comrade Trček. Also, this double status is a possible way to help each other in this way. Years ago, there were many people who tried to help themselves in this way, and then they had to pay their pensions back. And then we introduced a transitional period that didn't happen. The United Left says we support the holiday work. You know, I hear from employers a lot of times that they're afraid to get a job, because what if something happens, what the consequences will be. Even because of the rules we have, more people are afraid to work because we have too little flexible labour legislation in this area, which they repeatedly repeat. I was never an independent entrepreneur, I was in public service, I was in education where I had an indefinite job. I have tried to do well, but we know that in public administration, in such services provided, some do well, and some do only vegetation, and they also get wages. But when I listen to these independent entrepreneurs, they have to fight every day, for the first time, to have a job, for the second time, to be able to pay their workers, for the third time, they are often more burdened by various inspections than they actually control, or for such insignificant things they hold and so on. But these people have to fight for their bread every day on the market. This point is also related to the health point that we had at the beginning of the day, when all those who are private were also deemed to be poor, exploiters, profit hunters who want to make money when they go to the state office, and then suddenly they are doing everything right and doing everything nice and all good. And we're talking about the same man. I think it's easier to hide there, some of them, but some of them have to work very hard, but it's easier, the wages are guaranteed, he doesn't have to fight for patients. But someone who owns a separate company has to fight in some way to get customers to have a job so they can pay their employees and so on. Why do we stress this so often in New Slovenia? Because small businesses provide medium-sized enterprises in the country, I think even more than 90% of jobs. And that's how it is in Europe. We will now, not us, but the government will do everything to get the Magna company in Hotch near Maribor. For this we will give 100 hectares of agricultural land, 60 hectares of forest we will crash and so on. It's nice to get big businesses, lots of jobs. Otherwise, the price here is a little harsh. But on the other hand, we do not adopt encouraging legislation or such that people would be happy to be independent entrepreneurs — even they are — many jobs — so that there are not so many bureaucratic obstacles that they do not have to pay taxes where it is not necessary to make it easier for people to devote themselves to work rather than to bureaucracy. Same in agriculture. I recently spoke to a famous Slovenian woman, a farmer, an expert, an agronomist even, an agricultural advisor, even a member of the National Assembly in the field of agriculture, said that it was very necessary to confirm that all these papers could be filled out and that it was a long time for her to do so. Only someone who is not an expert in this field can do well. That is why I am constantly wondering how those people who have created something that fight daily for daily bread, who allow jobs to others to work, how many times here are vilified as thieves, as non-useists, and so on so many times we talk about it. This law of ours just wants to draw attention to these problems. Pensioners or independent entrepreneurs often shut down the company and take that pension and thus can close more jobs. Those who have heirs, the company sells to the successor. Everyone doesn't have one, or they're thinking, why should I do it if I don't have to? That's how we do our own damage. If someone deserves a pension, they can have it. And if he wants to work, he can work if he's paying taxes and contributions. I know, Comrade Uroš, that I have repeated this several times, but they say that it is necessary to repeat several times that little remains, so I use this practice and hope that any of this will happen. If not in this law, I hope that it will at least encourage the ministry, that it will take more steps in this direction and that we too will be ready to understand these people. Just one more thing I think I've said before. I was at the pre-election convention of the German CDU, when present Chancellor Merklov also said: “Thank you to all those who are getting up early in the morning, and you are giving work to our citizens.” She especially thanked them. But I'm afraid I hear quantifiables in here a lot more than to commend people like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u189	Mr Jeroj Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Uroš Prikl. Mr. Gardener, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u190	Dear colleagues and colleagues, finally a suitable topic at this meeting of the National Assembly. In this National Assembly, apart from what Nova Slovenija proposes, the real improvement of the business environment is insufficiently dealt with by our entrepreneurs, craftsmen, self-employed, espionage people would say here in this National Assembly, yes, espionage, even those who are under-employed. There is not enough debate on how to improve the business environment in this country, how to create more jobs, because we all benefit from it. The new Slovenia, as the voice of the political economy, will also continue to insist on this same legislation in the future. Simple and simple. And you're going to reject it a hundred times, and we're going to file it a hundred times. However, I believe that the next mandate will be different and that these effects of the legislative branch will also be borne by craftsmen and entrepreneurs. If we listen to the debate, it is a difference in concepts, for sure. In New Slovenia we simply claim that we need to create more conditions, that entrepreneurship will develop smoothly, that more will create more people working. The more people in employment, the more tax there will be in the budget, the more the country will have. The more people in employment and better wages, the more spending will be, and people will be happier and more happy to live in this country. We need to create conditions and better than entrepreneurs, we'll do better. We are simply proposing at this meeting, as we proposed last year, two things: the first important thing is the regulation of dual status. Today you actually have a number of citizens who meet the conditions for retirement, and they could already receive a full old-age pension, but for various reasons they want to continue working. They want to do the activity they have been carrying out so far in the future. I completely understand them. What are we doing to these people? We're just making it impossible for them. Is it our right to prevent these people who want to work who want to create? I don't think so. If there's anything stupid, it's just stupid to keep people from getting their 40-year-old job rights, that is, their pension, and the other side we're restricting them to work. This solution adopted by the Government at the time is simply not good. It is not good for the budget, nor is it good from a moral point of view. Two aspects are economic and moral. If we go to the facts. Look, pension is actually a work right. So if someone has worked for 40 years, it's also right to receive a pension. I think we all agree. On the other hand, the question arises why those who want to work do not have this right in all their fullness. So they don't get this right – pensions. Why do we keep this from them? There is an injustice that we simply correct through this legislation. Who loses anything with this? This government proposal or government law loses in particular the budget and reduces spending. I see nothing wrong with pensioners doing it if they can, if they can, by receiving a full pension, because that's their right. Paying – pay attention! – full contributions. Someone pays full contributions and comes from the contributory address all inside. There's a better budget. Someone who can still work full-time and receive a pension that is his right – why not, I repeat, spend more. VAT is also being converted. There's more left in the homemade barn, and we all have more than that. Once again, let us think here in particular so that people in this country have a good time. If I can just show it in plastic. Someone's an entrepreneur, and it's just before he retires. He gives his bill to check and calculate that he will receive approximately EUR 550 or EUR 450. A man feels capable of continuing to work. What will he decide? What would he rather do? Of course, to keep the espas and keep working. And I really don't see why I shouldn't get what's right in all of this. I'd like to stress one more thing about entrepreneurs. Look, I spoke to an entrepreneur from Vipava recently in the Vipavska Valley. Although self-employed, he is a natural person, self-employed, esp. He said: “Look, more than we self-employed, there are bears protected in this country on Nanos.” More. In fact. How can a self-employed person go to the office today? How? He has to do business with loss for years. Now you tell me which responsible entrepreneur, responsible man will deal with the loss, or he really won't want to go to the institution. And also, Mr. Secretary of State – does he receive compensation? No, no, no. Each of us who are employed here, if we lose our job, will also receive compensation. For espaes, self-employed people, that's not true. That's not true. They can't even go to the office when they want to. But they have to deal with the loss. This is where this injustice happens to entrepreneurs. Look, it's a crossbow, yeah. Self-employed people fighting for their daily bread. There's a lot of them in this country. No one will afford to do business with a loss. New Slovenia offers them a hand through its legislative measures. I hope that one day the National Assembly will really hear us out. Another time. Look, if anything happens to me that I'm employed in the National Assembly, if I'm a public servant, I don't criticize anything on the average, or whatever happens to any employee, he goes to the hospital and has a hospital allowance. No problem. The first 30 days will be paid by this entrepreneur, and the country will continue to pay for it. It's going to come out of the state mangers all together. But in a self-employed person, it's a little different. You've been paying yourself for the first 30 days. Then it's going to be the burden of the country. What if you get a doctor's certificate in the meantime that you still can't do this job and go back to the hospital? And there may still be a lot of revenue out of you. And secondly, you lose your customers. It's a perfectly natural path. But I'm just talking about it, or you'll say, you decide who will be the entrepreneur, who won't be the entrepreneur, but just because it's a really risky business, a little bit more dignity for these people would be needed in the National Assembly, even through legislation. Here, New Slovenia will propose in the future as regards the hospital and the application to the institution, including certain legislative measures, Mr State Secretary. That's what we're predicting today. Because we want to ensure justice. That's all. Justice. To those who are productive, to the possibility that they are even more productive, because of this we all have more. Last but not least, our salaries in the National Assembly depend on it. As far as the regression claims are concerned. We write here explicitly, I repeat, that if someone does something on purpose, if something happens on purpose, I stress that if the intention is to cause damage, accident, then all the costs are taken over by the employer, all the rents and all the treatments. It is just an old one, and let it be understood that accidents are also a consequence of unfortunate circumstances. Are they or aren't they? How many times does this happen to us in a private life? An unfortunate circumstance is coming. At that time, we propose, we place this restriction on a 20-fold minimum pension base for both legal persons and natural persons, which would amount to €15 000. Why? Look, these things can be very risky. In this case, too, New Slovenia did not think of this on its own to write such a law, but it was the craftsmen who turned to us, entrepreneurs, who put such things to bed. And because it's a very risky thing, private insurance companies don't come along because they have a lot of losses as a result of this legislation. Makes sense. And in this case, the state won't come to the rescue. A lot of entrepreneurs go into bankruptcy because of things like this. That's how we lose, again, everyone, and then there's more people in the office. Let my debate conclude, above all, that I wish in the National Assembly that we are adopting such legislation that will create better conditions for entrepreneurs, craftsmen, that we will really feel like, as if a person is driving through Barvarsky looking at the left and right economic facilities, mini halls of craftsmen, how things work, how things work, and how we can all have more of this, but not just jealousy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u191	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Before I was even named in the position, some quote said a fellow from the United Left, was ripped out of the context that if you want to be competitive, you must also violate the safety regulations. Yes, I was the responsible leader of Delta in the 1980s, with an expert exam at the Engineering Chamber, I had to know all the rules about safety at work, but when I got to the field, to the construction site, it was more dangerous to hang a safety net than to rig that part. It's mounted and then it has to be unmounted. There wasn't a basket back then, and I don't know how high the elevators go. When the pillar was 20 meters high, it was necessary to draw four screws at the top of the screws to get the monter to that height when there were no such ladders, except the firefighters had them. And there were 30 of these pillars, and it had to be assembled. The boys were trained, they followed these structures like monkeys because they were experienced. If I asked them to set up each stage for four bolts, they'd send me somewhere, or they'd get away, they wouldn't do anything. Then I would like to refer to this debate about the espies. I was espa myself. I spent days in Cyprus with a shoemaker, talking to him, he's about my age, I think he already has the conditions for retirement. Sam said years ago he had machines that he wanted to get apprentices, train them, and no one was there. And he put those machines behind the old iron. He's got a small workshop, 60 years old, he can still make shoes, he's sitting mostly, and he says he doesn't know what's gonna happen. The pension will be very low, the question of if he can live with it. You know how much pension is for espaes if he pays the minimum. Like a farmer's pension – 300 euros. So what happens next? He earned his pension. He paid 40 years. That's not a social category I think. It's an economic category because it's earned. And it's not social assistance, as my colleague earlier said I'd get a sick leave and a pension, two rents. No, that's not two social aids. One's bloody well earned because he paid in the system. Why wouldn't he still be working? If he has an heir, if he gives this trade to someone, okay, then he can work with him contractually, it's possible. What if there's no one in his house? Then what? Putting machines on waste, working to be able to get a pension or work on, or getting 20% of the pension, I don't know if we're getting it. Why? For who? But he paid for 40 years. Colleagues from the United Left, look, one of them went, ex-Militaries, 40 years into retirement. If the espionage does not belong, does it really not have to be done in 40 years? Colleagues from the United Left, one of whom hasn't started working in 40 years. Yeah, let's be a little smart. Don't we want someone to pay into the pension system? That's how we need the money. No, you can't, you're already a rich guy, if you can barely survive because it's espouses, those I see, those who have small shops, how much rent they pay, and the costs, I wonder how much traffic they can create or how much profits they have in selling some clothes or what else they can survive. But those who have never worked, only that Espe is behind the name and surname, have everything, they don't need anything. That's the thought. Last time I was in the store, I was buying something, and the dealer got a phone, and she said she didn't know if she would, because they're still putting it on the book. Do you know what's on the book? It's already strictly forbidden. But people don't. The washing machine for meals for a family with three young children survives with one small snack shop or roasts hamburgers. Customs got it, I don't know, for one check. This means a few thousand euros in fines. They don't have a washing machine. Here we have warned that penalties are disproportionate. “What should I do,” she said. She's got three little kids, she can't survive them. He shut it down because he had a chance, and then his wife took it, I guess, I don't know. And then we ask ourselves, if I closed it, I'd have nothing and I'd go for social assistance. He's got three kids, and he'd live better than he does now, and he'd have to pay the penalty to torture himself to survive his children. I'd advise him. However, they should have a few thousand euros, but the country will therefore give 20 000 euros back social assistance for three small children and two unemployed at a certain time. Is that worth it to the state? No, no, no. It is only important that we “przešraufal” him. It's not an important consequence. Just like our terrace. That's what it looks like to us if someone pushes an old lady into the water and then jumps in, saves her, is a hero, and they worship him, even though the old lady's cold died. But he saved her, even though he pushed her into the water. Just like Mr. Jewish Terrence. I would like you to go a little bit further to the countryside and take a little closer look also at Ljubljana, how difficult some of them are to survive. They're going to have to work until the '70s, not to get a pension, but to survive on their pension. But the country should stimulate them to work longer. The professor can be taught by the age of 85 when he's long since been run over. But it's not hard to do that only if someone listens to you. So is politics. Or at the farm. Three generations must be on the farm. The old dad gets his pension, and then he shouldn't be doing anything, so he should have a date every month so he can work. Or a gym to keep his condition. The rest of them go to work. Because he can't because it's black work. Tell me if the rules are different. Even the suggestion was that I should not go from home with a truck to Ljubljana when I go to work to get my son something else to the store because he should be a busy driver. This was a proposal for legislation that everyone driving vans should be employed and have a contract of employment with them. We're going this way. The Austrians, however, have a flat rate of EUR 700 per month. That way, someone can make a lump sum, but they don't pay any taxes. Why? Because he has created an added value somewhere, even if he has not given it to the country, more money is being converted, there is more consumption and through higher consumption back the country gets taxes. Because they're smart. But we're with the system now that we're thinking about UTD. Some say that if you calculate that most of those who already have nothing do nothing, you get more than UTD. They're getting more social assistance. It's about a problem that we're going to have at one of the following points. And I'll calculate everything for you. Why would I work if he went to work and got 550 euros? If he's home, he gets 520 for the kids. Thirty euros of difference and eight hours of work per day. Do you know what time it is? How much does he work for an hour? How many cents, how many cents, not how many euros. Because we can't calculate. Because you want to be broad-minded. But when we go to retirement, we earn that pension, we have to make something black or we have to make something at home to survive. Go to Macedonia and take a look. They say all the land has been processed outside Skopje for a few miles. But it's not processed because it's worth it, it's to survive. They have to process everything because it's not as social as it is with us, and it's not worth it. Why would you grow a salad at home when it's so cheap on the market? That's what they say. And I'm the one who's been working on the parliamentary salary, and I've come to know what I'm eating. Even though we all have wages. And that's because I'm used to it because I can't do it without it. But it's very easy to create a lazy person, and it's very difficult for a good man. We all know that. Instead of trying to make people work as long as possible to create for health reasons, to make people feel that they are still needed, because you probably have older ones at home or you will soon be in such a situation as to how a person feels when he gets the feeling that he is superfluous that he is not useful. But nobody thinks about it. I'll support this law and hope someone else does.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u193	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! First of all, my colleague Ludmila, to understand each other, I don't think I'm going to be nervous about you repeating the same thing over and over again, but I've pointed out at the previous point that it might be a little disturbing for me to see these things happening over and over again. I don't want to look vehement, which in the same way, with my arguments, I'm going to defend what I'm defending. I believe there's a conceptual disconnect here and that at the end of the day, we all think well. Now for a little while, because sometimes they say it's less than it is. Why are we in Desus against double status? Because the simple proposal on the table exclusively favors espies. Of course, it is not right that one is facing the other in an inferior position and consequently one is in a superior position. I have to tell the public that we don't force anyone to retire, we don't force anyone to be active anymore, we don't stop anyone from working. But if anyone wants to continue his work, he can continue as long as this will, health conditions, abilities and so on allow him. If he does not want to work full - time, he may work shorter hours, may be active for 7 hours in retirement, and 2 - 6 may work for 3 - 5, 4 - 4, and so on. So we don't take anyone's rights, no will, we don't discourage them. But I can't imagine that one group of people would be in a completely different position, either in an inferior or superior position, because this is unacceptable to us. Maybe for an illustration. Do you imagine that someone who chooses to retire and decides to go to politics, to be elected or elected to the National Assembly, to receive further his pension, to leave now the amount of this pension, and at the same time to pay full in the National Assembly, because he is still working. That's not my taste. But no one, I emphasize and point out once again, but we do not force anyone to retire, and we do not prevent anyone from continuing to be active. The Economic and Social Council, which has already had a few talks today, has not been united at this point. Such solutions, which you are proposing in New Slovenia, are against. Second point, regression claims. I am glad that in the final stage of this very little is known to me. Why have we taken the view that this proposal is absolutely unacceptable to us? Because, for the first time, it is extremely difficult to prove that something was intentional, it is extremely difficult to prove it in the process itself. The Great Neglect — What, then, is little negligence? You know, I'm sure this isn't about choking employers. Those employers who, at least optimally, if they fail to make sure that safety at work is taken care of ideally, they will not go "from the ground" from this title, if I may express myself so directly. But yet, here in our position we have put ourselves on that more vulnerable group, these are certainly workers to employers as regards safety and health at work. I think it is right to respect it, and I am also sure that the vast majority of employers, small, medium-sized, large, respect it. But when something happens, you know, and then the future of the individual and their families is questioned. Such anomalies and such discourses must be prevented. However, I am convinced that all those who at least make an optimal provision for the safety of their employees have nothing to fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u195	We come to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. For the first time, the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Peter Pogačar, will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I also thank the proposers and Members for this debate, because these issues, however, need to be discussed in particular for the future. And I will answer something first, and I did not take this as an obvious point, honourable speakers, that the White Paper provides for the regulation of this dual status. However, this must be answered. The White Paper is a document prepared by the Ministry of Labour to discuss publicly what our pension system should look like. However, the White Paper makes it clear that compared to other regulations, which you also mention in your material, that dual status is possible when full retirement conditions are met, this is usually at 65.67 years old, and in particular for all insured persons the same. Your proposal is, however, aimed at enabling only independent entrepreneurs to do so at the age of 60, as retirement is also possible at the age of 60 and 40 years of retirement without totalling. This was introduced into the system as an exception, for those workers who work hard and barely endure because they started working early and would not last even after 60 years, and it is appropriate to allow them a full old pension after 40 years of effective working age at the age of 60. That's why it was brought into the law. Mr Lach said that people should be encouraged to remain active longer. Absolutely. The whole pension law is made in this direction, that when insured persons meet the first conditions for retirement, they are stimulated to continue their work. There are several incentives in our system. An individual for an additional year of work, for the 41st year of work gets an extra pension, that's a higher pension. Another matter was introduced into the law, which we think is very effective in Slovenia. Any insured person under the same conditions, I stress, whether employed or self-employed, when he fulfils the conditions for retirement and stays employed, can already receive 20% of the pension. Both employees and self-employed under the same conditions. But your proposal for this bonus is off. Your proposal 39.a. Article 39 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act abolishes all insured persons who continue to work after the conditions have been met, abolishes 20% of the pension and introduces the entire pension for self-employed persons only. We don't think that's right. The legislator's aim is to treat everything equally. And this is a key message for the future when we address this issue. It is crucial for all pension and disability insurance providers to ensure equal conditions, equal obligations and equal rights. So much for double status. This dual status debate is important, it is correct, because it will also have to answer what is the nature of the right from our pension system, whether it is a right based on intergenerational solidarity for a period when an individual is no longer able to do the work, or whether any right is derived from the insurance to which I am entitled. This too depends on this issue, and it depends, above all, on whether we will ensure this to everyone under the same conditions and, as in some other countries, only after full age conditions have been met. This is in most countries now over 65 years of age. You mentioned that the law of 2012 abolished the possibility of dual status. After the previous regime, the possibility of dual status was limited to a certain category of insured persons, it is said that it must have been older than 63 years – your proposal talks about 60 years for a single entrepreneur – had to have at least 6 months before retirement an open activity and had to have at least one employee. Don't forget that. After that, we gave them a transitional period, we extended it once again, and today all pensioners are placed in the same position. Let us not forget that it is on the basis of such discussions, the demands of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and also your discussions with the last amendment of the law that we have enabled all, including independent entrepreneurs, to align themselves with other insurers, to remain active for only two hours and can retire for six hours. We wanted to be so flexible. What I wanted to say about the debate on dual status is that it is important, it is right to discuss this, and it is right that we are looking for some solutions that will be the same, fiscally sustainable for all protectors, but above all they must answer the question of what the nature of the system is. But I have a bigger problem myself by limiting regression claims for employers. Injury at work is one of the main causes of disability, for the occurrence of working persons with disabilities. Investing in safety and health at work is an imperative of our society. By removing the responsibility of employers for safety and health at work of insured persons, we are working against the principles of decent work, the principles of safety and health at work. Today, it was mentioned that what if the employer had all the internal acts right, but the worker conscientiously disobeyed his instructions and suffered damage. In this case, under the general rules of compensation liability, consideration shall be given to the co-contribution or to the overall contribution of the insurer to the injury. Let me just tell you about the order of magnitude of this problem. This is important to emphasize. Currently, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has four procedures open against independent entrepreneurs. Four trials. Your data also refer to a health check, but today we are talking about pension and disability insurance. When you say you would limit the damage. Who's gonna pay the difference? Someone always has to pay the difference. We'll probably pay for it for all the other insurance companies. So we believe that the proposed regulation is appropriate. The proposed scheme in the area of pension and disability insurance, because several times in the debate today I felt that it relates to health insurance. According to our assessment, the proposed arrangement gives sufficient discretion to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance to decide whether or not to apply for a regression claim. A regressive claim shall always be sought in a fair proceeding under the general rules of compensation liability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u197	Ms Ludmila Novak also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm sure you know all the regulations better than I do. But many times I meet entrepreneurs, craftsmen who expose this problem. If at the moment only four problems are open in court, thank God they're gone. But these four are probably in a confusing and difficult situation. I'm sorry there's no respectable colleague Maria Bachič here who went out earlier. When I looked at her, I remembered one example, a specific case. We've got carpets in the National Assembly down the halls. And in the end, there are some metal bars so we don't stumble. But still, I tripped so hard once that I flew a few feet further, but thank God, I only destroyed my heel. Of course, I could also have been embarrassed because I did not lift my leg any more, but the carpet was also a little guilty because it was elevated. Our respectable colleague broke her leg in this way and was on a crutch for a while, if you recall, and absent. You could kill yourself if you hit your head a little bit on the stairs. We talk about such cases when there is no greater negligence, but an accident happens and can have serious consequences. And that's what they're warning us about. For gross negligence, I agree, it's responsible. But there can be a terrible accident without someone really acting out of concern. We also suggested that someone get a full-time pension. It is now that limit, or 40 years. A man who is tired, tired, and has done so will surely have a hard time continuing to work. No one is forcing anyone to move forward with our proposal. But we met again many cases of independent entrepreneurs, innkeepers, hairdressers, there was a barber, but I don't know what else they said: “Then why would I continue to work if I earned the pension.” And that's what we're trying to say. He earned his pension, so he has the right to enjoy it. But because he wants to, he can continue to do another job because he can't hand over his company or he doesn't want it or whatever, he should be able to work. I am pleased that we have made this debate, that we have tried to open our eyes a little bit, that what we want with our suggestions, where the problems are, why these problems are. Certainly it is not black and white, but I hope that after this discussion things are a little clearer for us. I hope you also understand what problems we wanted to raise, which are real problems, and somehow solutions need to be sought for them. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u199	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. That is why I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in the framework of Tuesday's 30th vote. 5. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill amending the Social Security Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chuš. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the motion for a bill to Mr Andre Couch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u200	Dear colleagues, colleagues, representative of the Ministry, good evening! When at the beginning of this year, through social networks, I asked young people about the problems they face and what bothers them in particular, I also ran into a group of students from the University of Primorska, in the direction of Biopsychology. On the basis of several meetings and meetings, it was clear to me that when these students entered the study course from 2010 onwards, the 2010–2011 study year, they were found to have been misled by the State in their employment opportunities and professional opportunities, as it has not yet regulated legislation, the fields of ZOFVI and social protection. The main objective of the proposed amendment of the law is to include the students of the study programmes Biopsychology among the recruitment of professional workers under Article 69 of the Social Protection Act. The State plays a decisive role in the process of setting up and accrediting study programmes and is consequently legally required to do everything necessary and reasonably expected of the country to personally experience the social need and professional importance of the completed study programme, at least with an equal opportunity to apply effectively to the jobs applied for and resulting employment. By amending Article 69 of the Social Protection Act, graduates of biopsychology are allowed to carry out professional examinations and consequently have the same opportunity to enter the labour market where they can verify, prove and upgrade professional competences. The proposed law has no financial implications for the state budget or other public funds. The programme follows and includes the starting points and the development of scientific knowledge in the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Germany and Italy. This particularity and added value of the study programme Biopsychology offers an opportunity and a challenge for students of psychological science at home and abroad, as it offers and complements conventional methods of work and research. It is also worth adding that Biopsychology is a public study programme at a public institution, the University of Primorska. It is only an exercise of equal opportunities in the employment of biopsychologists in the field of social protection, and this is not only about the possibility of working in the public sector, but also about working in non-governmental organisations, such as Sweet or the Red Cross, since the status of an expert in the field of social protection is often a condition for applying for different calls. It is mainly European here. This law also aims to harmonise the actual situation, since biopsychologists are already on the labour market and the formal legal one that is set up at the time of the establishment of the study course Biopsychology 2010. The Ministry has also pointed out in its position that the inclusion of biopsychologists in this area is an added value, and some other directions are likely to be added to the list in the future. Let me also, at the conclusion of my position, thank all Members and Members or parties who have voted 10 votes in favour and 6 against on the working body, but I also regret that the vote of one of the parties to the anti-amendment coalition has prevented this law from being properly or fully completed, but I am sure that today or at Tuesday's vote is just the first step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As it is said, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee at its 40th session addressed the proposal for a law on social protection, which it forwarded to its colleague, Andrej Čuš. In addition to the representative of the proposer, the competent Ministry of Labour, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Association of Biopsychology Students and the Society of Biopsychologists of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The main objective of the bill is to amend Article 69 of the Social Protection Act, which would allow graduates of biopsychology to carry out a professional examination and consequently have the same opportunity to enter the labour market where they can verify, prove and upgrade professional competences. The government, or on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, pointed out that in addition to the study programme of Biopsychology, there are also several other study programmes that experience the same fate. Social gerontology, anthropology and many others have been highlighted, and the advantages that would enable students to develop professional and broader relevant social, communication, organisational and social competences. The Government considers that the proposal is somewhat partial, as it includes only one study trail in view of the amendment of Article 69 of the EWC, and joins the proposal's view that the inclusion of graduates of the biopsychology study programmes among the pool of professional workers under Article 69 of the EWC could make a significant contribution to the quality of the implementation of social protection services and enrich the set of professional profiles that can participate or work in the field of social protection as well as wider. The debate highlighted the view that by adopting the novel, an important step would be taken for a group of people who were studying or who had already studied and were not in a position to pass the examination. It was also explicitly stressed by the public concerned that biopsychology as a new profession in Slovenia can expand the range of work and enrich the range of professions. Biopsychology combines sociology and science, and graduates take a broader view of human psychology. The study focuses on basic biopsychological issues, such as the question of the interpretation of the origin of consciousness in relation to the functioning of the brain and issues in a broader sense, such as studying the behaviour of the wider masses and so on. As has already been said, we have also had one non-adopted amendment in the vote, and we have adopted all the articles in full and thus have allowed the proposal for a law on social protection to come to the plenary session of the National Assembly, and I am sure that we will also confirm this law and take an important step forward so that students and graduates of biopsychology have more opportunities and can join in carrying out professional examinations and become an important moment in the field of social protection as well as broader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u204	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members and other Members present. According to the assessment of the Desus Group, a biopsychologist is a profile that can offer his knowledge in the provision of social security services in a sovereign manner. We are also convinced in our Group of Members, and thus the Government also notes that any profession other than a biopsychologist can contribute to the quality of the implementation of social security do and enrich the labour market offer. The Social Protection Act is obsolete in the work relating to the recruitment of professionals who can operate in the public social protection network. The modern forms of problems that we face more than 20 years ago, or are more recognized today than in the past, for example in the field of the protection of older persons, are called after a more modern multi-disciplinary treatment with an extended range of experts. It also indicated that the Ministry of Labour needed additional powers of gerontologists, anthropologists and perhaps others. We are also aware that a dilemma has arisen, whether the currently implemented Biopsychology programme at the only university that enables this type of study offers adequate and sufficient competence. Since the programme is in the process of re-creditation, it is now a good time for any shortcomings to be corrected and for the faculty to be adequately complemented in cooperation with the professional programme. What helps young people to learn successfully is that many, even with excellence, cannot serve bread in this direction, nor can they repay society for what the country has given them with a free public study. Unfortunately, today we will not be able to do what is necessary to upgrade the profession, a set of experts who can work in the public social protection system, since the set of professional workers profiles in Article 69 cannot be expanded due to a closed article. By approving the proposal for a law that we have received in decision-making by the parent working body, we will be able to add only one profession to the workers' system in this broad field, so there remains still an open room to address any other shortcomings in this area. This also gives the competent ministry an additional task. Ambassadors and Members of Desus are given a green light to the students of biopsychology to enter the labour market for the implementation of social security programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u206	All those who persist in this session are respected. The proposed amendment to the Social Protection Act is pursued by only one objective, and this is to open the door for graduates of biopsychology to access the professional examination, which is a condition for employment in public sector services. On the Web site of the University of Primorska, described as a study of biology, we read: “Biopsychology has been a good time in the world for a wide and recognized scientific field of research into the biological background of psychological phenomena. The aim of the study programme Biopsychology is to combine science and social science as a fundamental area of science and to overcome the classical treatment of individual and social phenomena only from a social or natural point of view. Graduates will thus gain a broader view of human psychology and will also learn about the use of scientific methods of sociology and science as tools for solving practical tasks. The study focuses on basic biopsychological issues such as the question of the interpretation of the origin of consciousness, in relation to the functioning of the brain, and questions in a broader sense, such as the study of the behaviour of the wider masses.” On informative days, future students were told that they would also be employed in the public sector. But as soon as the students of the new accredited program studied, they had a cold shower. They cannot work in the public sector without a professional examination, but they cannot do so because they are not found in the recruitment of professional workers under Article 69 of the Law on Social Protection and Other Laws. It means there is no room for them in the public sector. However, the Government itself notes that the inclusion of students in the Biopsychology study programme could contribute to the quality of the implementation of social security services and enrich the range of professional profiles that can work in the field of social protection and also in the field of disability, employment and family. In the same opinion, however, the Government does not support the proposal, as it points out that in addition to the Biopsychology programme, other study programmes have been established in Slovenia, which are not regulated in a manner similar to the Biopsychology programme, in order to ensure that graduates are employed in the public sector, and that this novel is part of the problem management process and would like to see the solutions adopted in a comprehensive manner. As a result of this conclusion, we expect the Government to draft a new law that will fully capture and regulate the missing areas of the study programmes, but we do not see why we should not start to regulate it immediately. That is why this bill will receive our unified support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have a lot to fix in our education system. In one of the areas, the unresolved situation regarding the possibility of traineeship and public sector employment for biopsychologists is pointed out by a novel by colleague Cuz, whom we are currently dealing with. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that the needs for these personnel in Slovenia are even greater than the number of graduates. Biopsychology is a public education course taking place at a public institution, Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology in Koper University of Primorska. It prevents the interlacing of biological and psychological factors in human understanding. It's a highly interdisciplinary area. So it means that he treats the individual as a whole as a biopsychosocial being. Students also practice in the field of social protection. They are recognized as quality personnel, since it is important in this area to have competences that touch psychological advice, knowledge of mental illness, as prevention in the field of mental health. But they have problems with their employment. It is stuck there because they do not meet the staffing conditions, which can be eliminated by incorporating or incorporating this educational direction in Article 69 of the Social Protection Act. This would allow them to carry out their training and professional examination not only in the public sector but also in the non-governmental sector. In applying for various invitations to tender, the social security examination has been very welcome. For the education of biopsychologists, the country has allocated extensive financial resources and they are now here in the labour market and would like to contribute to society with their knowledge and skills. Members of New Slovenia want to help them do so, so we support the law and we will come to the conclusion that it is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the amendment of the Social Protection Act, which will bring about the inclusion of graduates of the Biopsychology study programme among a number of professional workers who can provide social protection services. After long-standing debates and obstacles faced by graduates of the Biopsychology programme, this is the first step towards improving their position in the labour market. I am convinced that the knowledge acquired by biopsychology students during the course of the study will make an important contribution to the quality of service delivery in all areas of social protection. I am pleased that during the debate on the working body, the support for change has been clearly expressed by all of us debaters, parliamentary groups and ultimately by the Government. I hope that we will also agree at the meeting of the National Assembly and that the proposal, which brings positive changes, will be given the majority support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mag. Tanja Zink will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u212	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The current Social Protection Act lays down, in Article 69, the profiles of professional workers who can provide social protection services, but among which there are no graduates of the study course Biopsychology. Biopsychology is an interdisciplinary science that combines science and society. The proposed amendment proposes that graduates of biopsychology be allowed to carry out professional examinations and consequently equal opportunities for entry into the labour market of regulated professions. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the involvement of biopsychologists in the recruitment of professional workers would contribute to the quality of the provision of social security services. In 2009, the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology of the University of Primorska acquired accreditation for the postgraduate study programme Biopsychology and in 2013 for the second degree study programme, promising future graduates that they would be able to work in the public sector after completion of the study, particularly in health, education, social protection and public administration. Since the profile of biopsychologists is not included in the recruitment of professional workers under the current Social Protection Act, graduates of this study course cannot be employed in the field of social protection. Of course, this raises the question of whose competence it is to check employment opportunities. Biopsychology students have pointed out that the National Agency for Quality in Higher Education should in this case be a protector if a study programme is accredited that does not allow the employability of graduates. It should be noted that at the time when the study programmes of Biopsychology were accredited in the criteria for accreditation in relation to employability, it was only stated that the need for the first and second stages of study programmes was also assessed as regards the employability of graduates and the possibility of further education. In May 2014, new accreditation criteria were adopted, where, with regard to the employment of graduates, the planning of the higher education institution is also an integral part of the accreditation process in terms of the quality of learning outcomes and competences in the way that graduates are employed or can continue to be educated. The higher education institution must also monitor the employment or employment of its graduates. Although the new accreditation criteria currently in force, which impose more responsibility on the higher education institution to verify the employability of graduates of selected study programmes, we estimate that, at the time of accreditation of the study programmes of the Biopsychology of NAKVIS, he performed his work superficially. In order to avoid similar, unloving situations in which graduates are found after the completion of the study, last year's amendment to the Higher Education Act in Article 32 clearly states that the NAKVIS for regulated professions in the accreditation process must obtain the consent of the Ministry in which the profession acquired by the diplomat belongs. The applicant submits that on the basis of the standard classification of professions, it can be concluded that the profession of a biopsychologist is comparable to that of a psychologist. This raises the question of the appropriateness and comparability of the competences acquired by biopsychologists in the study process. It should be stressed that in the field of education, biopsychologists are accredited as biologists. The Department of Psychology of the Faculty of Philosophy also pointed out the lack of adopted social skills of biologists. In doing so, we cannot ignore the fact that the proposed law only regulates this problem for biopsychologists, although there are other profiles that may be employed in the field of social protection. We also need to ask ourselves who should be responsible for assessing the professionality of profiles and the ability to carry out regulated professions. In this case, the responsibility which has not been taken over by the Faculty in the planning of the study programme and then by the NAKVIS in the accreditation of the programme is actually transferred to the National Assembly. Members of the Modern Centre Party will decide on the support of the bill at their own discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u214	President, good evening, everybody! In fact, it would be pointless to repeat yourself. The fact is that virtually all the parliamentary groups have announced their support for this proposal, but it is correct to know and to say out loud that we are also in favour of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Protection in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we always, and so will we do in the future, support all the good solutions that bring about an improvement in the situation. That is why we also reject all the debates and opinions that have been given today that some things in the National Assembly are often repeated. If there are other solutions, we will be very happy. But so far, there are none of them. Let me also say that, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is very important that the students of the Biopsychology study programme are included among the professional workers set up under Article 69 of the Social Protection Act, the matter can greatly improve and contribute to the quality of the implementation of social protection services. The proposed amendment of the law does not, of course, prejudice to the existing basic principles of the current law on social protection, the addition of Article 29 of the Law on Social Protection is based on the requirement for clarity and certainty of the regulation of social protection conditions resulting from the State's positive legal obligations doctrine. The State plays a decisive role in the process of establishing and accrediting study programmes and is consequently legally obliged to do everything to ensure that students and students are equally involved in the system after the completion of the study with the possibility of an effective application to job opportunities and resulting employment. The proposed amendment to Article 69 of the Law on Social Protection allows graduates of biopsychology to carry out professional examinations and consequently equal opportunities for entry into the labour market where they can verify, prove and upgrade professional competences. We support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving to three. At the end of the day, this is a bill on amendments to the safety legislation in rail transport by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u216	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 54th emergency meeting, on 22. 5. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Rail Safety submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure highlighted the main solutions contained in the proposal for a law relating to the extension of the maximum continuous driving time of a towed vehicle and motor vehicle for specific purposes in one amendment. Furthermore, leave arrangements with a minimum 30-minute use of the break, which is envisaged after the law has been resolved, are later regulated by the Labour Relations Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that there was a nomotechnical flaw. It pointed out that Article 1 should be amended in order to adapt the relevant criminal provision to the effect that a proposal was made at a meeting of the Committee to vote on the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act was not suitable for further consideration. We voted on this decision and it was also voted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much. In order to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, who is the proposer of the bill, mag. Klemen Potisk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! With the proposed law on rail safety, we wanted to address two important issues. We have proposed an extension of the maximum duration of driving a towing vehicle and motor vehicle for special purposes in one shift from 4 to 5 hours, and we have proposed a more flexible use of rest during working hours by abolishing the special provisions that are in the existing law. In view of the internal inconsistencies found between the two articles of the law, we agree with the opinion of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space that the consideration of the proposed law does not continue. The government will propose a new bill to deal with this issue as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u220	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! On a proposal from the Government, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we discussed the proposal for a law amending the Law on Rail Safety. The Government has proposed to extend the maximum continuous driving time of the towed vehicle and the motor vehicle for special purposes in one shift from a maximum of 4 to 5 hours. The proposed solution proved to be good at the time of the acorns. In addition to this amendment, the Government has proposed that the executive railway worker be entitled to a break in accordance with the law governing the employment relationship and the collective agreement. All workers have the right to a break during working hours under Slovenian legislation and are intended for regeneration, which helps to make work safer. The applicable Railway Safety Act states in Article 85 that the employer must establish a break between work and ensure its exploitation. If the use of the break is determined in two parts, one part shall not be less than 30 minutes. Since there is increasing traffic on the railways and work is being rationalised, executives are rightly afraid that the collective agreement will stipulate that executives can benefit from a break during working hours after work, for example after 5 or 10 minutes. Although the law was tabled by the Government, the coalition voted at Monday's session that the law was not suitable for further consideration. Here's the question why. This may be related to the Second Tyre Act or, for a coalition, two laws relating to railways are too costly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u221	Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u222	Good evening, presidents and all present! The proposal for a amendment to the Railway Safety Act contains several urgent amendments relating to the extension of the maximum continuous driving time of the towed vehicle and the motor vehicle for special purposes, in one change from a maximum of 4 hours to 5 hours. The proposed solution is intended to be introduced as the analysis so far has shown that this amendment has no negative impact on rail safety and makes it possible to carry out individual work processes more rationally. It shall be established that the executive railway worker shall have the right to rest in accordance with the Law governing the employment relationship and the collective agreement. In this way, the proposal would allow enforcement railway workers to be compared to other workers subject to the Labour Relations Act. The specific regulation of this issue in the Railway Safety Act for safety reasons or because of the specific nature of rail transport activities is not necessary. The novelty introduces some other amendments, which also relate to the alignment of the situation of enforcement railway workers with other workers, in particular with regard to working arrangements, the exceptional termination of the employment contract and the type of disciplinary measures resulting from the breach of the obligations under the employment relationship relating to safe rail transport. During the examination of the draft law on the home labour body after obtaining an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, it appeared that the amendment from a legislative technical point of view needed an amendment which unfortunately could not be placed in the proposed text of the law. We have therefore not supported the further procedure of the law under consideration in the parliamentary group, but we expect that the content of the proposed amendment of the law will be properly regulated as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 30, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. May, in the framework of the votes. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Romani Community in the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members, with Mr Matjaž Hanžk, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. To Dušan Verbič for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u224	Good evening! Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, a very nice greeting once again! At its 35th regular meeting, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of six Members and Members, with the first signed by Mr Matjaž Hanžko. The amendments of the United Left Group were also tabled in the course of business. The representative of the proposal said that, when drafting a proposal for a law in Slovenia, different consultations were held, at which not only Roma were invited, but also representatives of local communities, institutions with the most contacts with Roma, social work centres, schools and others. He agreed that many of the proposed solutions might not be the best, but he again urged the Government to propose better concrete solutions. He expressed the hope that the Government would draw up its proposal for a law on the subject as soon as possible, as promised. Finally, he said that the proposed amendments followed to a large extent the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the draft law did not sufficiently define the distinction between the obligations of the State and the obligations of the local community and reiterated that some issues of a legal and financial nature should be dealt with in advance. He also pointed out that there is an inadequate relationship between the Government and the Nationality Office, which, however, is a government service on this subject. The Director of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality considered that the Roma issue should not be a political clearing area, since regulation of the situation of the Roma community is in the common interest. The Government has a serious intention of proposing a law that will fully regulate this area and a working group has also been set up to this end. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission had examined and did not support the proposal for state regulation. It also highlighted the opinion of the Council of the Roma Community, which in principle supports the proposal of the law, although it is in their opinion that restraint is perceived. The President of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia said that the Council supports any changes to the law that would affect the greater development of the Roma community in Slovenia. Changes should enable systemic funding in the most critical areas, such as housing, education, employment and health. With regard to the content of the draft law, on the basis of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert proposed that the Committee decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In the debate on the draft decision, Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party felt that the situation needed to be changed at all levels, in all areas, so that positive discrimination would no longer be necessary. The bill was marked as problematic because the proposed solutions collide with the constitutional right to private property. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the proposal for a decision, the Committee adopted, with 13 votes and one against, a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you very much. In order to present my position on the proposal of the working body, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal to Mr Matjaž Hanžk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Vice President. The proposal to amend the Law on the Roma Community is nothing more than a result of the failure of the Government. Both these and past governments have promised to make changes to this law, but no one has done anything in 10 years to date. In 2015, this government rejected the draft amendments sent with an excuse to prepare its own law, which will be adopted in 2016. Since that didn't happen, we put him in the United Left. The law adopted in 2007 is urgently needed for amendments. We do not think that the law is completely null and void, but there is certainly a need for change. In particular, those who will clearly determine what are the tasks of the State and whose tasks of the municipality and who also provide the municipalities with the appropriate means to carry out these tasks. The fact is that Roma settlements are not yet legally regulated and have at least minimal municipal equipment. Even today, there is no water in some settlements. In this regard, we also have almost certainly a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, legislation still allows the sale of land together with people, i.e. members of the Roma community who live on it. That reminds me a little of the story of denationalized apartments. This unacceptable practice would be prevented by the introduction of a temporary moratorium on land sales. The moratorium would be lifted as soon as the state and the congregation agree on how to resolve the bibian problem of those living on such land. The third important amendment concerns the Council of the Roma Communities. There's certainly a need for change. The composition of the Council needs to be changed so that members are responsible to the Roma community, in order to defend the interests of the Roma as much as possible. This is possible only with direct and democratic elections. The Council would still have 21 members who would be loved and its representatives in the world would have all the region where the Roma minority, representatives of Roma societies and representatives of Sints live. The bill also contains some other solutions that are certainly necessary, but all have been met by a clairvoyant fate — a coalition bulldozer. Although we have been preparing the proposal in the United Left for two years, we have coordinated it with the people on the ground, with key stakeholders, from the Roma community to the mayors themselves, we have presented it to the coalition and the government office. Nevertheless, the government gave a negative opinion. The excuse is the same as ever: The government will prepare its own law, which will soon arrive in the National Assembly. However, the coalition, without only following the Government's negative opinion, made it even more difficult for the representatives of the Roma community to participate in the Committee's discussion, despite the calls they had not been given the opportunity to present their views and not just their views, the president did not allow debate on either the proposal or the Members. This is a new policy practice that is full of the mouth of democracy, ethics and morality. According to past experience, we do not believe that changes to the law in this mandate will see the light of the world. The positive solutions that are necessary or even necessary are rejected without discussion and explanation, we are better prepared. The fact that they come from the opposition is enough. The government's excuse is always the same to produce better, more comprehensive systemic solutions. Unfortunately, I've never heard of a better solution. Solutions that are then never ready. In view of the wave of hatred that has gripped Slovenia and promoted by the very government coalition along with the political right, it is difficult to imagine that this government will solve the problems faced by Roma settlements just before the elections. For this never brings a positive point, to a large extent negative. But that doesn't mean we're gonna give up on the United Left. We will continue to demand a debate, we will continue to demand concrete solutions. Not only about the Roma minority, but about all the minorities that the authorities are increasingly pushing to the brink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! If there is anything permanent at this meeting or predictable, it is that there is no representative of the Government when we consider individual points. The Law on the Roma Community was adopted in 2007. Soon after its implementation, however, there were many shortcomings. For almost 10 years, we've known where the problems are, but they still can't be solved. The changes in marriage have been in preparation for more than five years, or so they say. The changes are always announced in some way for one year later, but they are never fully prepared and even less sent to the National Assembly than Godot. In the United Left we are committed to improving the situation of all minorities and marginal groups. In order to improve the situation of the Roma minority, we have prepared some critical amendments to the Law on Roma Communities. We spent two years gathering information in the field, talking to stakeholders, and looking for the best solutions. The result of these efforts is the changes you have seen in our law. We can narrow the proposed solutions into four areas, which I will briefly describe. The first concerns the need for a clear definition of the tasks of the State and the municipalities. The municipalities would receive additional funds that could be used solely for this purpose to address the bibian problem. We are not talking about luxury goods here, we are talking about the minimum conditions for a person's decent life, such as sewerage or access to drinking water. I hope that the Government and the coalition will at least, after the European Court of Human Rights has condemned them, change their views and actually find that this problem exists and that we also have to solve it. The second area concerns unacceptable practices that are increasingly common. It is a sale of land together with its inhabitants. Even congregations use such practices, so it is imperative to avoid them. This problem would be solved by a temporary moratorium that would delay the sale of land until an appropriate method of resettlement was prepared. The third area is the Council of the Roma Community. Direct elections of its members would ensure appropriate regional representation and an appropriate power ratio. The number of members would remain unchanged, only the composition would adapt to the actual need for democratisation. The final set would provide adequate human resources assistance to the Council and a clear definition of the powers of the Regional Development Fund and the Public Fund for Cultural Activities. All of these solutions, as we have already heard, have been aligned with the representatives of the Roma community, and we have also presented them to the coalition and the government office. We have not received concrete comments or proposals for better solutions, but we have received a negative opinion from the Government. Unfortunately, what happened then has already become part of the folklore coalition in this mandate. Despite numerous calls and requests, representatives of the Roma community did not get the floor. However, the Chairman of the Committee has made it impossible for Members and Members to discuss the rules of procedure many times. The event on the committee was shameful and, if I may say so, also unworthy of this institution, which we call the National Assembly. Since it did not happen for the first time and probably not for the last time, we also proposed to the SMC Group that the President be dismissed. However, the Modern Centre Party clearly sees no problem in preventing debate and preventing the involvement of the interested public. It is a practice to simply reject the opposition proposals without discussion, so they will obviously only increase and perhaps even extend to another committee. With such practices, it is expected that the situation of the Roma minority will improve in this mandate and at least slightly by this government, so almost utopian. For that reason, we will vote against the proposal for a decision that this law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u230	Honourable Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, as long as we have left. Apparently, colleagues from the United Left are most concerned about the Roma community's hard-to-live representatives. However, in our parliamentary group, we are much more concerned about those who are more responsible to the wider community, who work hard for minimum wage, and who live worse than the representatives of the Roma community, and who are significantly more. The proposed amendment of the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia, tabled by the United Left, introduces changes in several areas of Roma Community regulation. The proposal provides that the municipality is obliged to ensure adequate housing conditions and to receive adequate funding from the country to address the Roma problem. Of course, at the time of this special treatment of a particular group of people in Slovenia, the question of the meaning and justification of such discrimination is quickly raised. Not every citizen has the privilege of providing him with an adequate housing situation. In our view, when dealing with the Roma problem, we should stick to a proverb that says: “Give a man a fish; you will feed him in one day. Teach him how to fish, you'll feed him for life. Only endless state and municipal assistance to the Roma problem will they ever solve. Their education, self-initiative, entrepreneurship promotion and accountability are needed. Human development promotes its own motivation, work and creativity, not relying on the resources and services of the state and the congregation. In addition, in New Slovenia, I would like to point out that we agree with the findings of the State Council Commission, which pointed out other reasons which, in their view, make it difficult to integrate the Roma community, including the relationship between the level of social transfers paid and the minimum personal income that does not stimulate employment. For New Slovenia, however, the most controversial part of the proposal is the introduction of a moratorium on the land on which Roma reside. In practice, following the applicant's claim, it has already happened several times that the land on which Roma live has been sold. As a result, the Roma had to move away, which would cause even more problems than the original ones. In Novi Slovenija, we cannot agree that we could define as controversial the ownership of the owner with our property and even bind the owner with our hands. In such cases, the problem is not at all in the owner's possession of ownership rights, but in the fact that a certain group of people live on land that is not really theirs. In our view, issues should be addressed where there is a problem, not by a way of dealing with consequences that would unduly affect third parties. The proposed solution is therefore, in our view, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we Christian Democrats also note that in Slovenia, unfortunately, there are some problems with understanding the concept of property rights, which has not been shown recently in the adoption of the so-called lex Magna Act. For these reasons, we will vote in the New Slovenia Group against the proposed amendment to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u232	Good evening! Let me say in the introduction that in the SMC Group we have decided that the amendment of the Roma Community Act is not suitable for further consideration at the committee meeting, and that is why we will support it this time. As you know, we were informed, through explanations of opinions and views, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had given a negative opinion on this proposal, that it was not supported by the State Council, that some of the concerns had been raised by the Council of the Roma Community, which by law was the only representative body of the Roma community, and that the Legislative and Legal Service had pointed out irregularities that had not been adequately addressed to the Committee by the proposed amendments to the proposal. After all, we have also convinced Members of the SMC about the wrong solutions to this proposal on the ground when we visited one of the Roma minorities. In the SMC Group, we support the objectives pursued by the bill, in particular the regulation of the poor living conditions of certain members of the Roma community. We do not, however, object to proposals to reorganise the functioning of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia and to facilitate their social inclusion in society. In our country, only the Italian and Hungarian national communities have constitutional and legally recognized status as indigenous national communities. The Roma community does not have the status of a classical national minority, but it is a special community with its anthropological, ethnic and cultural characteristics. However, the Constitution provides for a special situation and special rights governed by the law. That is why we are all committed to this community being recognised and given special rights in a way that will improve their situation and enable them to participate more effectively in society, including or, in particular, in the field of education and employment. Since the basic law on the Roma community has been adopted since long ago 2007, we are therefore aware of the fact that the need for its amendment is being demonstrated. These have already been prepared several times today, but none of them has been aligned with the professional and interested public, and the solutions proposed have been too incomplete or too partial to be supported. Finally, two years ago a law was submitted to the National Assembly with a largely similar content, which was not supported for those reasons. In this regard, it is worth noting that the Legislative and Legal Service has also found that the law already under consideration with a largely similar content has been equally inconsistent and that the current proposal has not eliminated this proposal. Let me mention only the question of the distinction between the obligations of the State and the obligations of local communities. There are questionable or problematic solutions to the moratorium on private property intervention and the possible non-conformity with the Constitution. The questions of the election of the world and the problems with the electoral directory, the non-systematic financing of local communities and the control over the inadvertent use of these funds and the binding of funds on the pre-prepared municipal programmes are unanswered. That is why we have no choice but to reject the proposed law. However, it is worth mentioning that despite the fact that the amendment of the law has not taken place, the Government of Action and we are pleased that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will carry out a public call for co-financing of investments in basic municipal infrastructure in areas where the Roma Community lives for 2018. The supply of drinking water is also currently in accordance with the applicable legislation and must be regulated for all social groups in the same manner, irrespective of any personal circumstances. It is not currently possible to connect illegal facilities to a public electricity network in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Construction of Buildings and Energy Law. The modern centre and the government are aware of the importance of regulating the open issues of the Roma community and addressing the identified shortcomings of the current regulation, and we have therefore called on the Government to prepare as soon as possible a proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on the Roma Community in the context of the expert discussion on inter-sectoral coordination and coordination with the Roma community. The Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality has already joined the drafting of the regulation and is currently in the stage of drafting the working text of amendments and supplementing the law. Furthermore, in early May, the Government set up an Inter-Resort Working Group to address the spatial problem of certain members of the Roma community, which is responsible for reviewing the situation of individual Roma settlements in Slovenia, preparing an analysis of good practices in this area, and proposing measures to address spatial issues and improve their living conditions. This does not mean that we are not seeking to protect the Roma community in Slovenia or to provide conditions for the preservation and development of its culture, language and tradition, the regulation of the living conditions, adequate education and participation in economic, cultural and social life.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u234	Good evening again! The United Left has introduced into the procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. I am pleased that all the other parties or representatives of the parties who attended the meeting of the parent committee followed the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party and voted on our proposal that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. The proposaler, the United Left, also included in the draft law extremely problematic and controversial solutions which would affect the private property of citizens and citizens, but which is a constitutional right. The representative of the Council of State also made similar comments. We have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the fundamental problem when we talk about the Roma problem and the coexistence of the Roma and the rest of the population is not in the Law on the Roma Community, but in compliance with the legislation. In Slovenia, laws must apply for all. Even for the Roma. Until this constitutional record is reached, there will be dissatisfaction, tension and conflict situations that municipalities, where the Roma also live, cannot solve alone. This is how it happens and allows Roma who respect the laws and live in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the rest of the population, second-rate citizens compared with those individuals and groups of Roma who do not respect and exploit their status. Recently, on the subject of regulating the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia, there was an extremely good debate at the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. At this meeting we heard the opinions and suggestions of the mayors of Dolenjska, where Roma live, and where the situation is currently the most difficult. I also know this situation very well personally, so I have already convened a consultation on this subject and I intend to do so this year. It should be pointed out that, in fact, there have been no real solutions on the part of this government so far. But the situation is only getting worse. The government has already promised a strategy two years ago which should be adopted for the period 2016-2021. Today we are 2017. In fact, I wonder what this strategy will be based on. The largest and inadmissible manca is in the field of basic and basic data. How we will resolve the situation of the Roma community if there is no such information. All the millions we devote to solving the Roma problem are tossing money away if we do not know what the real situation is and on the basis of the effects achieved. In Slovenia, we do not know how many Roma live or how many live in individual municipalities. We don't know how many illegal settlements there are. We don't know how many Roma are employed. We have no data on how many Roma complete primary education. And we don't even know what the percentage of Roma children coming to school is. We are giving out various forms of social assistance, but we do not know what this aid is being used for. We do not even have data on breaches of public order and peace in the area where the Roma population lives, although the situation in some environments is already so problematic that citizens and citizens who pay taxes to that country, who respect the laws and rules, are forced to sell and move out of their homes, even though they have been difficult to build and with great denial. The same applies to Roma who want to live in accordance with the country's standards. If all of this country is not addressed as a priority, no new legislation and no strategy will help. Only the dissatisfaction between the Roma and the rest of the population will increase.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u236	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In this term of office of the National Assembly, for the second time, we have a proposal for a law on Parliamentary benches trying to solve the problems they face in many Roma settlements. The current Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in 2007 and is based on the provision of Article 65 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that the situation and special rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia are governed by law. While this law provides a framework for regulating the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia, it lays down the concerns of the state authorities and the authorities of the local self-government in the exercise of the specific rights of the Roma community, regulates the organisation of the Roma community at national and local level and funding, but in practice there have been major difficulties in the implementation of the law, as the Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out in his annual report and has been constantly alerted to by the organisations of the Roma communities. It is not to be overlooked that the Ministry responsible for infrastructure and space has also given warnings due to the inadequacy of Article 5 of the current law. They pointed out that the instrument of State control of the municipalities in regulating illegal and municipally unregulated Roma settlements was unclear or even impracticable. We cannot and do not wish to deny the proposalers' findings that there have also been some shortcomings in the functioning of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia in practice, which is why we should consider the possibilities for different design and composition of this organisation. However, unfortunately, in the Group of Members, we agree with the Government's view that there is a need for serious reflection on many provisions and key solutions to the current law, which requires a more demanding and in-depth drafting of amendments and supplementing the law than has been done so far. It is not to be forgotten that Roma have been living in the territory of today's Slovenia since 14. For centuries. According to current estimates in Slovenia, between 7,000 and 12 thousand Roma live, representing about 0.5% of the total population. The number can even be higher. The fact is that solving the spatial problem and regulating the housing situation of Roma is a process that can only be successful with the partnership of municipalities, Roma and state institutions, in which each of the actors must fulfil the obligations of their respective competences. Addressing these issues requires inter-departmental cooperation between the competent ministries, municipalities and also the Roma communities. According to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is aware of the importance of regulating open issues and addressing the identified shortcomings of the regulation in force and will prepare itself a proposal for amendments and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community, of course in cooperation with all stakeholders. In the Desus Group, we understand the reasons and purpose of the proposaler for changes to the current law, but we want the Government, as also the Director of the Government of the Nationality Office, to take a comprehensive approach to the amendment of the Law on the Roma Community. According to government representatives, the bill has already been drafted, so we hope or expect the Desus Group to be on our benches in the near future.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Today I started with the views of the parliamentary groups, and after 13 hours I conclude. This amendment to the law that we have on the table proposes solutions that deal with the Roma issue and refer to changes in the allocation of funding to municipalities in which the Roma community lives to the moratorium on the sale of land where Roma live on the composition of the Council of the Roma Community. Similar marriage solutions were also recorded in a novel that we considered in autumn 2015 and assessed that the proposal was not suitable for further consideration. We are social democrats then and again today that the solution to the Roma problem needs to be addressed comprehensively, together with representatives of the Roma community, the local community and the country. Since the regulation of the Roma issue goes beyond the one-resource framework, it is essential to draw up a national Roma action programme for the period 2016-2021. If we have said two years ago that the national programme for the period 2010-2015 will expire at any time, we now find that time is long overdue. The draft national programme of action for Roma for 2016-2021 is ready. However, as we can read, it does not bring satisfactory solutions because these are not properly evaluated. To think about, perhaps we should also discuss extending the period until 2026, especially because the speed of programme preparation and later implementation are not the virtues that would contribute to the development and resolution of this complex problem. In order to increase this speed, however, Roma organisations and their members will also have to contribute. This is also noted by the Ombudsman, who says that by establishing the Council of the Roma Community, part of the competence and responsibility for the resolution of the Roma community is transferred to the members of this community. They must make an urgent effort to include as many children as possible in the educational system in addition to regulating the living conditions. We are aware that this is a long-term process that is ultimately being repaid. In Slovenia we have examples where, on both sides, there is a Roma and non-Roma side, a tendency to regulate, not only living conditions, but also to regulate and develop educational and cultural conditions, very large. It is necessary to build on these positive cases. We will support the proposal that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. In view of the final part of the record in the Government's opinion, however, we can kindly request that the preparation of the relevant documents and legislation in this area be completed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-25-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 30 May, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. I am adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Colleagues and colleagues, I wish you good night!
