i-72c2f17eb706e055-2	Mr President, I would like to There are so many reservations in the report that I had to check which reservation request I am going to ask for. So I shall begin by doing so and I would like to support reservation 50, but I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the report. Today we are debating a report from the Committee on Social Affairs, which deals with a very large number of questions and proposals from the parliamentary parties on various health issues. The report deals with no less than 600 claims. Christian-democratic claims make up a little over a tenth of them. Naturally, I will not be able to go into everyone. I intend to concentrate on some very crucial issues in order to improve Swedish health care. The first part I want to focus on is about the patient. The patient should become a resource in the care system to a greater extent than today. We know that Swedish healthcare is largely performing very good results. But if we compare internationally, we notice that there are shortcomings in the sense of participation not least for the most fragile, most ill patients. It is about the feeling that I play a role in health care, that my knowledge of myself, my needs, my everyday life and my illness is not taken into sufficient use in health care. The Christian Democrats have several proposals that could improve it. One of them is about taking advantage of the knowledge of those who live long with a comprehensive disease, a chronic disease that often affects everyday life very much. They should be more able to be included as experts in health care and actually be involved in managing health care in a better way than they are today. We propose introducing what we call certified patients. In consultation with your doctor, you should be allowed to perhaps renew certain prescriptions, control certain parts of the treatment or decide for yourself when you need to be added for further monitoring. It should be passed on by the doctor as a right to the patient who has the ability to take care of it himself. This already exists to some extent today. If we go back a few years or maybe a decade, we can see that it was something very advanced to be a kidney patient and in need of dialysis. Care-trained experts were needed to determine how often, to what extent and when dialysis was to be performed. In addition, they were to perform dialysis itself. It is something that has been transferred to the patient in several places today. If you live with a disease that means that you need to seek care several times a week for several hours and have the power in your hand to decide when and how it should be done, it is clear that the quality of life increases. It can also improve health, as care can be adapted to your own needs. You can adjust the dialysis so that you can manage that fun activity that you want to do with your grandchildren. It can also be ensured that dialysis is applied to times when you can continue to maintain your work. This way of thinking needs to permeate care to a greater extent. Another proposal supported by the Christian Democrats, which is also supported by the parliamentary majority – which we are very pleased about – is to make the national quality registers available to patients. Not only the health care staff, but also the patients should have the right to know where the care is best. This gives you greater influence and a better knowledge base to make the decisions you need to make when you suffer from ill health. Mr President, I would like to The second area I would like to highlight concerns the increasing mental illness of children and young people. In this area too, the Christian Democrats have several proposals. Some are not dealt with here, because it is about resources and that we provide resources. And that has already been dealt with in connection with the budget. What is being discussed in this report is, among other things, about strengthening first-line health care for children and young people. We see a need to bring together the care that is given to children. Today it is quite fragmented between what the health centre does, what school health care and pupil health do and what children's and young people's psychiatry do. We see a need to bring this together, so that children can get the best support and that other adult staff around the child will get support in their profession and their part of the business. It is an important step in order to be able to work preventively. If we can help children and young people at the beginning of mental illness, we can reduce the risk of them getting into major difficulties. However, it is not enough that we invest more resources, that we expand the care and that we try to work towards shortening the queues that in a short time have grown very much. There is also a need for national mapping, a comprehensive identification of the causes. Today we have a lot of knowledge of how bad children and young people are. But we know very little about why children and young people in our country, more than in other countries and at an increasing rate, feel even worse. We need to understand the reasons in order to fight them with the right methods. This often involves very early support. There, too, families have a crucial role to play. Mr President, I would like to Otherwise, I support the rest of the report.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-16	Mr President, I would like to Health care is one of the most important issues of the elections. It's no wonder. Health care is a cornerstone of our well-being and an important framework for us to feel secure. We know that in Sweden we have high-quality healthcare that is also accessible to everyone. It is also jointly and severally financed. It is a system that we all support and trust. Mr President, I would like to However, we also have a number of challenges in health care. It is about demographic development, among other things. By 2020, the 40s are starting to be over 80 years old. And even if we stay healthy way up in the years, which is great, the needs of health care and care will eventually become great. We also see positive developments in health care in the medical and technical fields. But it also requires that we distribute our resources in a good way so that you can work effectively with care and organise it. The supply of skills is also a major challenge. Today there is a major shortage of nurses and specialist nurses in particular. Maintaining and recruiting staff is a major problem. There is also a challenge in maintaining confidence in our system and healthcare. It is a question of maintaining a high level of accessibility. There is also a need to improve the continuity of patients and to ensure that care is distributed equally, which is not the case today. The large number of motions raised by the previous speaker also shows that there is a very strong commitment in Parliament to these issues, which of course also exists in the population. Mr President, I would like to The Red-Green Government has given priority to health care from the beginning of its term of office. Major efforts have been made and important decisions have been taken to meet the challenges and to guarantee the highest quality of care for citizens in the future. Only in this year's budget is the overall investment of 10 billion, which will eventually be 15 billion. It is also a question of billions of dollars for improved working conditions, for opportunities to develop working methods and for new staff. It is also about strengthening maternity care, strengthening the guarantee of care, improving accessibility and patient contracts. In addition, a few hundred million more are being invested to improve mental health. During this term of office, the government has made historical investments of just over SEK 13 billion to health care. This means more employees, shorter queues and better maternity care The government has invested in more nurses, specialist nurses, midwives and has decided to gradually expand medical education. This is, of course, about long-term work to strengthen care, especially close care. In addition, the structures of Swedish health care have begun to change, and we are going to debate this on the next issue in this House. We Social Democrats want to continue our efforts on healthcare to meet the challenges and to develop Swedish healthcare. Many of the problems that Swedish healthcare is struggling with today are explained by skills shortages. Nurses and other healthcare professionals are missing, leading to closed care places and longer waiting times for treatment. Therefore, the Red - Green government has expanded its training courses to include nurses, specialist nurses, midwives and even doctors. The Government has also invested SEK 2 billion in order for healthcare professionals to have the opportunity to develop ways of working and for healthcare to be able to recruit new staff. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want to continue this effort. Health workers need to increase, and we want to see 14 000 more employees in healthcare during the next term of office. However, care also needs to become more attractive to work in order for the staff to be able to cope, thrive and want to develop their work. We Social Democrats want to see improvements in the working environment of health care. Healthcare professionals should be well placed to develop their professionalism and provide patients, patients and clients with a high quality of care and care. Mr President, I would like to Cancer is one of the greatest and worst diseases of our time. Every third person is affected. We will all be more or less affected, unless we ourselves have a relative. No one should have to wait a day too long on suspicion of this disease. The government has continued the old government's efforts in cancer care, and much of the current national strategy is in the form of standardised care processes that will provide equivalence in cancer treatment and shorter waiting periods. It is also about promoting patient participation and safer care. We can now see the results of the level structures in order to make healthcare more efficient and quality-assured, as the national strategy advocates. Last year, 2017, a large council was held in Sweden on the future of cancer care. There were patient organisations, healthcare professionals, researchers, healthcare companies, county council representatives and others. The conclusions will provide an important basis for the development of the government's work on cancer care. The government already announced in the 2018 budget to present a long-term focus for the work, and the results of this will be presented within the next few days. The Council Act indicated that the direction of the current national cancer strategy will continue to guide further work and that the strategy needs to be continuously developed and adapted. Mental illness is a major problem in society, not least among children and young people. During its term of office, the Government has made several major efforts to combat ill-health and develop healthcare in order to be able to meet children and young people who feel bad early and to provide the necessary services. We Social Democrats want to continue working to promote mental health. We present today a proposal to give a commission to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to see together with the Swedish National Agency for Education how a screening programme can complement the programmes already in place in the field of pupil health in order to early detection and resolution of mental illness in children. We also want to add SEK 250 million in permanent investments to increase accessibility in primary care and also in BUP. We also want to see initiatives on digital youth receptions and support for suicidal thoughts.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-39	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to focus on the cancer strategy. During this term of office, we have been pleased that the current government is pursuing the important cancer strategy that our government introduced and started, and that has been a good thing. At the same time, there are ongoing reports on how people with severe cancer diagnosis – sometimes with life-threatening conditions – still have to wait. This may have to do with shortcomings in certain specialities of care. We know that it may be that in some places we are not yet working enough with quality improvements and that we are not doing so sufficiently methodically. We have a motion for which there is now a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs. But the Social Democrats. The Green Party and the Left have opted against it. The profession is about launching a more developed cancer strategy so that we continue to take further steps towards improved cancer care. We want a methodological improvement in quality, shorter waiting times and a long-term perspective in the supply of skills. Why have the Social Democrats opposed this?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-43	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we are not opposed to improvements in cancer care, of course not. The consultation that was carried out in 2017 was very broad, with many participants from the profession, from various organisations, not least from patient organisations and other stakeholders. Then it became clear that you do not want a new cancer strategy. It is felt that the present strategy should remain, but that it should be developed, evaluated and upgraded. That was what came out of the council. This is, of course, a question of seeing improvements with short waiting periods, which are not acceptable at all times today. It also wants to continue to develop, for example, the concept of the RCC, which has proved to be a great success. They want to continue to work with the level structures and have more diagnoses in the standardised healthcare processes. In the next few days, we will see other government proposals to develop cancer care. As I said, we have nothing against improved cancer care, but we have listened to the profession and others who say that the strategy is good and that it should remain. It shall be indicative, but it shall be developed and upgraded.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-48	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely a development that the parliamentary majority supports. It is a pity that the government parties do not do the same. Let me shift my focus to what concerns children's and young people's mental health. There's a lot we agree on. It is important to invest in prevention. It is also important to invest in the cooperation of the various parts of the organisations. But what the Social Democrats and other parties oppose is about identifying the cause. There's a lot we agree on. One thing is to work preventively. Another is what Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson mentioned in terms of developing better screening programmes for early detection. These are good and important things, and we agree on them. But what the Christian Democrats' proposal is about, and which is rejected by the Social Democrats, is not only to find early children who feel bad, which is important, but also to find out what the reasons are. What is the reason for this? We know that there may be causes in early childhood. There may be causes in school. There may also be reasons for how today's society works. But we also need a proper survey of the connections, who they are and how to avoid ever starting to feel bad. It is about the earliest form of prevention. You don't just have to discover early when you're starting to feel bad, but make sure you never end up there. Such proper work is not in progress today. There is much other important work going on, but this particular work is not going on. It would be welcome if we agreed that it was necessary. Why are the Social Democrats not prepared to take an initiative for such work to begin?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-53	Mr President, I would like to This is a new tactic. Apparently, just because you don't support a motion, you're against it. It seems to be the new thing here in Parliament. It's gonna be very weird. That would mean that all the motions that you, Emma, did not approve during the last term of office were really bad. It doesn't work like this. Of course, we don't mind finding out the reasons why mental illness is increasing among children. Of course, we are not opposed to it. Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson should know how it works here in Parliament. Otherwise, her alliance companions should also be against such a survey, for neither do they have well-supported the exercise. It's all going to be very weird. In addition, the Swedish Public Health Agency has produced a report that quite clearly points to the conditions in school as a reason why Sweden stands out in terms of the development of mental illness among children and young people. Let's start with that! I think it would be good to look at it. All children go to school, and there is also the opportunity to see what makes mental illness in Sweden increase. Of course, there are many other explanations, which are far beyond our horizon. In the early 2000s there was an investigation – I think I have mentioned the earlier one in this House – by Sven Bremberg in the framework of Anders Milton's major psychiatric investigation. In it there are a lot of explanations. We can look at it too. We have no objection to this being mapped out. It is not about us being opposed to such a thing, and I think Emma Henriksson knows that too.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-58	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by expressing my support for reservations 1 and 45 and for the Alliance's reservation 54. Yesterday I spent the day in the hospital with my son. He was to undergo surgery, and at such times Mom is difficult to replace. It was a planned operation and nothing serious, but as usual with mothers it feels in the heart area when the anesthesia takes and the little life – with shoe size 44 and 14 years old – falls asleep. There were long moments of waiting. I was struck by what an amazing response we received. It was about both mother and son. Everything was carefully explained, and all radiated such warmth and professionalism. Around me were parents and children who likewise enjoyed this treatment, involvement, professionalism, and warmth. This is exactly how it is: Around Sweden, miracles are performed every day. These are planned and emergency procedures, advanced heart surgery and neurosurgery, which with millimetre precision operate the brain and cure Parkinson's disease. It is also about cancer care that is getting better at curing previously very difficult cancer. Much else is done, big and small, with an amazing staff Mr President, I would like to Sweden's health care is internationally of high quality. Doctors, nurses and other employees make invaluable contributions during all hours of the day. At the same time as Sweden goes as a train in so many different ways, there is a completely different picture. During this government the medical queues have doubled and the queues for the BUP have tripled. The staff are running faster and worse. They say that they largely remain loyal to the patients. Sick leave rates are increasing, and many choose to quit. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. There is no political conflict between us that there is a need for more health professionals and a better working environment. We are also spending about the same amount of resources on this. We can fight for millions here and there, but when it comes to staff and the working environment, there is no political conflict. However, problems and challenges are not lacking. Patient safety is sometimes threatened. There are major regional differences in the quality of care, and waiting times are indeed too long. There is a relationship between hospital-heavy care and the need for close care to be extended. The lack of care places forces staff to spend an excessive amount of working time looking for vacancies. At the same time, many care places are unused due to a shortage of health professionals. Psychiatry is on its knees. And despite what has been said here about the national cancer strategy, it is becoming out-of-date and inadequate. Mr President, I would like to The challenges are many, and the government's response is few. Developments are in a number of ways worrying. It is precisely in this report, which is extremely comprehensive, that there are so many areas that the Committee on Social Affairs could use most of the day in this House without any problems, but we demand concentration. Therefore, I would just like to briefly mention the two declarations contained in the report and ask for their approval. One concerns national quality registers. They are systematic tools for developing the quality of healthcare. In many cases, these registers are crucial for activities to learn from past experience. We believe that it is a good thing that patients have access to the registers in order to compare the quality of different health services themselves. The patient should always be put first. I would also like to say something about the national cancer strategy. We know that cancer is by far the most common serious disease in Sweden today. Every ten minutes a person in Sweden is informed that he or she has cancer. Over half a million Swedes are currently suffering from cancer. In 25 years' time, more than 100 000 Swedes will be affected each year. This is simply the most common disease of our time. An updated national cancer strategy should focus on, among other things, shorter waiting times and how to ensure the long-term supply of skills in cancer care. Today there is a shortage of pathologists, X-ray nurses and biomedical analysts. We want the experience of cancer patients, relatives, patient organisations and research to be taken into account in a systematic way. A national cancer strategy must assume that more people now survive their cancer and that many live the rest of their lives with chronic cancer. This calls for a more comprehensive chain of care. The new cancer strategy will also help to create reasonable conditions to take advantage of the possibility that healthcare tailors new treatments and uses the very latest medicines in an equal way. As I said, there are many challenges to be addressed in a speech. Finally, however, I would like to focus on the long-term care queues. It is unreasonable that depending on where you live in Sweden, there is an incredible difference in how long it takes to get care. To link back to cancer care: The Prime Minister promised that no cancer patient would have to wait longer than four weeks. Today, most people have to wait considerably longer than that. That means, Mr President, that we need a new government. This is a lost mandate for Sweden in many important areas. The major challenges have not been answered. We need a government that takes the problems and challenges of health care seriously and is prepared and intends to implement balanced reforms. We halved the queues under the alliance government. Now they're back in double numbers. We did it then, and we will do it again.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-74	Mr President, I would like to There is an area of welfare where the situation is very serious, and this is the area we are going to debate here and now. This is an area that the government has failed to deal with, namely health care. Sweden today has long care queues, where people suffer very badly and even die. Furthermore, confidence in Swedish healthcare has become record low, which is of course extremely serious. This is mainly based on the fact that accessibility for many years has been in a downward spiral, where care queues have been allowed to grow year by year without responsible politicians having any plan or answer to how to reverse this development. Every fourth patient in the surgical queue has waited longer than the 90 days of the care guarantee. Responsible doctors, healthcare professionals and patients have long alerted about this serious situation and called for action. But this has not been heard, despite the alarming development, which is sad to say the least. So we are in a situation where there is a shortage of trained health professionals and a shortage of care places and where vital operations are cancelled. As we all know, last summer only at Karolinska here in Stockholm 20 patients were operated too late. All these operations concerned serious cancers, such as cancer of the pancreas, liver, esophagus or ma g sack. But it is not only in Stockholm that the situation is serious. The situation is almost the same wherever you go in the country. In some county councils, only 50 per cent receive their surgery within the 90 days of the health guarantee. I was yesterday looking at the standardised health care processes that have been introduced in Sve Rige, which is good. However, the achievement of objectives is disastrous even there. Let me give you an example. For cervical cancer, from diagnosis to treatment, it should be a maximum lead time of 21 days. Now it turns out that only 12% of patients receive treatment within this lead time. This, of course, is not good enough, Mr President. It's a huge failure. But it didn't have to be like this. Looking out you can see how our Nordic neighbours have managed to shorten their healthcare queues and increase accessibility. We can do the same, if only the will exists. More resources will be needed. But above all, Mr President, a focused and strategic effort is needed to get rid of the care queues. Here the government has failed. That is why, Mr President, we are proposing a completely new health care reform, in which we have largely drawn inspiration from our Nordic neighbours, mainly from Denmark. In the past there were similar problems to those we have today with long care queues, but they have managed to reverse the trend, which means that they are today able to meet the time requirement and the monthly guarantee for almost all patients. I live down in Skåne and have Danish television. There are very rare discussions about care queues and long waiting times in the Danish media at all. We therefore want to introduce a completely new health guarantee, which we call a patient rights guarantee. It is a real guarantee with both belt and braces, not as today's health guarantee, which I would call a clean paper product. This guarantee means a maximum waiting time for specialist care of 30 days, in case of serious diagnosis of 14 days. We believe that patients should be guaranteed the care and treatment they are entitled to under the Health Care Act and the Patient Act. Mr President, I would like to While I am in the Patient Act, I can say that we want to strengthen the legal position of patients in healthcare by including a concept of rights in the Patient Act. We believe that there is a value in calling what the patient has the right to expect from the care as patient rights. On the one hand, the use of concepts says something in principle about the perception of the citizen's and the patient's relationship with the public, and on the other hand, changing the use of concepts can contribute to a further shift in the perspective of healthcare, so that the patient's influence and participation is seen as self-evident. We should remember that patients in Sweden have a significantly weaker position compared to our Nordic neighbours. We believe that this should be changed. Mr President, I would like to We also believe that new national IT support should be developed to provide an overall picture of waiting times and availability for all hospitals and health care establishments throughout the country. This is particularly important in order to make more effective use of existing resources and thus reduce waiting times for patients. This IT support means that we should be able to assist a national health care facility, which we want to introduce, in its work to meet the health guarantee. But it should also be possible for patients and relatives to see where in the country a specific treatment or operation has the shortest waiting time and then be able to go there. Mr President, I would like to Health care is about people's lives and health in a way that we do not live up to today. As I said earlier, people get hurt or even die waiting for care. This is unacceptable in a welfare country. With our proposal, we will better coordinate the existing healthcare capacity across the country. We will then be given more equal care, but above all we will make maximum use of the care capacity. In this way, we can shorten the care queues, where there are now 30 000-40 000 patients who have been waiting for their surgery or treatment longer than the 90 days of the guarantee. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to make it clear that our aim is not to shorten the waiting times for care. Our aim is to remove them altogether. We should not have any waiting times in medical care that are not medically justified. If other countries can do it, we can do it!
i-72c2f17eb706e055-87	Mr President, I would like to Per Ramhorn used the introduction of his speech to talk down Swedish health care. It is not that we Social Democrats are in any way neglecting waiting times and lack of accessibility. These are very important issues that we are working hard to address. But Per Ramhorn says nothing about Swedish healthcare in international comparisons actually getting quite high results. We have high medical quality. We have good equality in comparison with other countries. One question to Per Ramhorn must be: Do you agree that Swedish health care is also very good in some respects? I believe that there can be major problems if you use too much energy to talk down certain activities. And is it the case that healthcare professionals in Swedish health care do a bad job? I want you to answer that. The second point I want to make concerns the accessibility of healthcare, which we all think is very important. I would like to know what resources you in the Swedish Democrats intend to use to improve this and if you agree with the Social Democrats' analysis that it is very much about skills shortages in healthcare – lack of nurses, nurses, doctors and so on. Do the Swedish Democrats agree with our analysis, and if so, are you prepared to do something about it?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-89	Mr President, I would like to I'm gonna start from behind. We agree with your analysis that there is a shortage of staff and that more resources are needed for staff. The staff are doing an amazing job. There should be no misunderstanding at all. We'll bet on it, too. Once we get care, it's good. But it doesn't help when we're in the long queues. Last winter one of the 20 patients who had to stand in line in Stockholm died. It would not have helped to say to the patient: We have good care in Sweden, but we must not take part of it. You said yourself that you wanted to shorten the queues and that we should not have any queues at all, but you have no plan for that. The plan is that it will be better for the health care professionals and that you will hire more. That's good. But that's only half the solution. You must also have a strategy to shorten waiting times. I wasn't for the cue billion. I don't believe it in the long run. It has not been necessary in other countries. But removing it and having no other proposal was devastating. The embodiment was good in that the focus was on accessibility. But you took it away completely, and then everything just went so wrong.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-93	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that our strategy to overcome the shortcomings in health care is about investing, above all, in health workers but also providing resources. When Per Ramhorn says that it is willing to invest in the employees, I still have to ask myself why the Swedish Democrats are doing everything possible to reduce the conditions for the employees. They do not support the proposals on limiting the possibility of stacking fixed-term contracts on each other, which is an abomination in health care. There are staff who have worked year after year without having received reasonable employment so that they can live like other people, take a bank loan and get a rental contract, for example. You have opposed that. You have also opposed the possibility of calling for collective agreements in procurements. Then it is a question of providing resources in health care, as Per Ramhorn said earlier. Then one might wonder how it goes with proposing tax cuts that would benefit the most wealthy in society and also proposing billions in cuts. They are almost in the 100-billion-dollar class for municipalities and county councils. It doesn't make any sense at all with what Per Ramhorn said earlier. In addition, the unfortunate thing that happened with cancer patients in Stockholm County is more about the management, control and organisation of care. It is a management in Stockholm County Council that the Swedish Democrats are involved in supporting.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-98	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I will say that what happened to the patients in Stockholm was not unfortunate. It was a disaster both for the patients and for their relatives. There are allegations that we want to make cuts of billions in our budget. Time and again that lie comes. You should stick to the truth of the matter. You have to read the whole budget and not just take out certain specific areas. We want to make a big effort on the staff. We finance a withdrawal from shift duty, shared tours and possibly also Karen's Day. We have consulted the health professionals about what their wishes are for staying and for those who have left to come back. We have done a deeper analysis of how we can get back, among other things, the 8,000 nurses who have left the care. Nevertheless, the government cannot be satisfied with this. Even the government says there's an increase in queues. One day it may be us who are affected. You may be affected, Anna-Anna-Lena, and relatives may be affected. We cannot just look at the trend going in the wrong direction and say that we see it in the long term. For patients who have cancer counts every day. They don't have time to wait. I agree with the Moderates here. This term of office has been devastating for accessibility. It's been a waste of time.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-103	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! As you all know, the red-green feminist government is working systematically and purposefully towards a long-term sustainable welfare policy. Health care is one of the bones of our well-being. As previous speakers have pointed out, I would also like to point out that we are well aware that Swedish healthcare in international comparison has very high standards and very high standards. As has already been pointed out, the report under discussion is a motion for a resolution. It deals with some 600 different proposals from Members of Parliament. This means that Members of Parliament have the right to submit freely any proposals they wish to Parliament, I believe, is one of the foundations of our democracy. The individual Member shall be able to present the views, arguments and proposals that the citizens of that particular constituency want to be tested in the national arena of the Parliament. This right means, of course, that the proposals put forward are usually not immediately acceptable to Parliament. That is why almost all motion requests, as in this report, are rejected. But the proposer and the Member behind them should not despair about it. A rejection in this House is often the first step towards the proposed legislation becoming new in time, even if it takes time. First, new ideas that many Members put forward must be anchored in society through information and perhaps long-term debate for many years so that the government can eventually assume that there are conditions in society for the change that is being proposed. Only then will it make sense to devote resources to those investigations that are almost always a must to change the legislation. Even when an investigation receives a very positive reception, it usually requires rather time-consuming processing in the Government Office, perhaps with less additional studies and long consultation periods. Therefore, it may take many years for the proposals now rejected by this report to come back as proposals from any future government. Therefore, the fact that the committee proposes that most of it be rejected does not mean that the committee has a negative attitude to all that is being proposed. On the contrary, in many cases, what is being proposed has already travelled some of that long distance and has even reached the point where the matter is already under preparation in the department concerned. One reason for the rejection may even be that the government has promised that proposals will come in the near future, as is the case with some of these proposals. That, Mr President, was one way for me, quickly and without touchsticks, to process most of the approximately 600 proposals in the report without specifically evaluating any of the individual proposals. In this way, I thought that I would have a little more room to say something more about the issue I think I should primarily touch on. The opposition has accumulated a common criticism of the government by proposing a statement that the government should instruct the appropriate authority to develop proposals on how the national quality registers can be made available to the individual so that the quality between different health clinics can be compared. I read literally what is being proposed. It is now the case that the government, not so long ago, has entered into a new agreement with SKL, Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, to support the further development of the national quality registers. One could then imagine that the opposition is breaking open doors with its demand for the announcement. But it's not that simple. The agreed development work that the government has with SKL is mainly aimed at improving the functionality of quality registers for the profession. What is proposed in the notice is partly completely new functions for the registers. Sometimes when politicians interfere at a detailed level, there is a risk that it will do more harm than good. Perhaps it is the steering group of the registers, and not the Riksdag, that will decide whether this is an appropriate development line for the registers. In addition, one might wonder whether the Riksdag and the Government are in a position to take the proposed decision at all. The head office of the registers is not in the State or in any State authority, but in the activities of the professional groups which have drawn up the registers. It is possible that this means proposing something that is not even possible. There are also many other sources of evaluation of the quality of health care providers that may be easier to develop for it, in my opinion, very well-proven purpose set out in the proposal for a notice. It is obviously good for citizens to be able to compare different options. But we do have, for example, the Inspection for Health and Care, whose reports could perhaps be more public and could act as support. In addition to the state's preparation for medical and social evaluation, the Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare constantly carry out various evaluations of the activities. If the results of these listed authorities were compiled and made easier to understand, it might provide a better basis for citizens. The aim would be to fulfil precisely this function: to see the different qualities of the different activities. Open comparisons by the National Board of Health and Welfare could also provide a better basis for reaching the required basis for choosing healthcare providers. Then there is 1177.se, where the individual can see a great deal of the quality differences that they demand to be able to see. With this, I would just like to point out that a great deal is already being done to evaluate, compile and make information available so that citizens can make sound comparisons and that the government is very positive about this work. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-119	Mr President, I would like to This debate, when, for the last time in the parliamentary term, we are discussing all the motions that have come in in the area of health, becomes, for the Committee on Social Affairs, a little bit of a degree when we have the opportunity to look back on what has happened during the parliamentary term. I agree with Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson from the Social Democrats when she says that Swedish health care is fantastic. It works extremely well in many ways. But we have also been able to see, particularly during this period, that a number of structural problems are emerging and becoming more and more clear. We see this clearly in the international comparisons: Swedish healthcare may be very good at treating cancer or heart attack. However, Swedish healthcare has very serious problems in terms of involving patients, in terms of providing information to patients and, not least, in terms of giving patients the opportunity to access healthcare. These are really three major areas. Firstly, we have the major problems in Swedish primary care. Whichever country you visit, you can see that the health care system has an organisation where virtually everyone has a fixed medical contact in primary care. In Sweden it is obvious that most people have their own hairdressers that they go to when they are going to cut their hair. But very few Swedes have their own doctor in primary care. In Norway, 98 per cent of the population have a permanent medical contact in primary care, but in Sweden only just over 40 per cent have their own doctor in primary care. Mr President, I would like to This is a very serious problem, because it is what is causing patients not to turn to primary care today. Instead, they go and sit in the waiting room in the emergency room, use some form of app or take out a private health insurance. If we are seriously going to solve some of the really big problems we have in Swedish healthcare, we must ensure that everyone in Sweden gets their own fixed medical contact in primary care, just as it is in all other countries. If we cannot build that base in the health care system sufficiently strong, we will not be able to escape the problems that we then have with regard to the lack of a place of care, waiting times in the emergency room and, not least, the unequal distribution. Today we have health care that is unevenly distributed. Those who have education and those who are in employment have much better access to healthcare than those who are unemployed and those who are born in another country. Primary care is one of the major problems. Secondly, there is the problem of accessibility. We have care queues that are purely immoral. In this respect, developments have gone in the wrong direction during the term of office. Today the queues are twice as long as they were in 2014. At that time, there were about 50,000 people in line. Today there are up to 100 000 people. This is something that could be addressed. First of all, as I have said before, we could reintroduce the cue billions. It did not solve all the problems, but it helped to solve the problems. This is the first thing that concerns accessibility. What Jan Lindholm from the Green Party is ralling over, namely that patients should be able to easily know how long the waiting times are. This is not something you should know as a patient in Sweden. If I visit Gävle hospital and there I find out that my hip is worn out and that I have to change my hip, I can't easily find out that in Lindesberg it is a week's waiting time while in Hudiksvall it is four months' waiting time, if I would choose to do that. This information is not available for Swedish patients. That should be changed quite quickly by the proposal for an announcement we have today that a state authority should be given this responsibility. Thirdly, in a situation where we have queues that are growing, we have a crusade against private care. It's absolutely devastating. Today we must ensure that we have all the health services that can help shorten the lines. This is a major problem in Swedish healthcare, and it also contributes to an unequal distribution. The person who has contacts or cash always gets through and gets the medical care you need. But those who do not master the language, those who are unemployed and those who do not have an education are much more difficult to get through. This is a huge problem in Swedish healthcare. Mr President, I would like to I now come to the major problem that we have had during our term of office. Heidi Stensmyren, Chairman of the Medical Association, put it well in the Ecot's Saturday interview last Saturday when she said: It is not primarily a lack of resources in Swedish healthcare, but it is a lack of reforms. This has been quite clear during this term of office. In 2014, a government that had no agenda whatsoever for what would change in Swedish healthcare took office. As a result, we received two proposals during the first year. There was first a proposal from the government to phase out the free choice of care, and a few months later there was a proposal to withdraw the proposal to phase out the free choice of care. The second year came a proposal for a law banning the sale of the University Hospital and Sahlgrenska Hospital – who had ever come up with such an idea! These are the concerns we have. In recent years we have had some problems that have grown. I have mentioned the primary care and the queues for specialised health care. And we have a government that has not had a reform agenda at all. The sharp proposals that we have adopted in this House have, for example, concerned highly specialised care and several of the other investigations that were set up during the alliance period. These will be the major concerns that we will have to contend with for a further number of years in Swedish health care. That is why, Mr President, it becomes so obvious to me that a new leadership of Swedish health care is needed. I hope we will have that after the autumn elections. Of course, I support the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report, but I am only in favour of reservations 5 and 54 for time to come.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-132	Mr President, I would like to It is beneficial to hear Anders W Jonsson say for once that the queue billion does not solve everything. I think it's the first time. Then we can agree that other efforts are needed. Moreover, the health professionals who are going to solve these problems, because there are no others who can do so, do not want this kind of bonus solution. I think that Anders W Jonsson makes as many visits to the care as I do or maybe more and that he can then listen to the staff and what they themselves say. I made a visit to the hospital at home in Linköping to a department that works with highly specialized care, and they had problems because shutdown of care places allowed them to receive so many satellite patients that they could not receive and treat the patients in line. There is therefore a lack of competence. There's no nurses in the hospital. This is our analysis. We want to invest in staff, and we want to improve their working conditions. Does Anders W Jonsson think that you should not listen to what they themselves say? It is about how we can develop working conditions and organise work and how we can create more trust in the work that they actually do in order to develop it in the best way. Does Anders W Jonsson agree with that part of our analysis?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-135	Mr President, I would like to I and the Center Party fully agree that part of the problem is a lack of competence. It's about specialist nurses and specialist doctors. That's where we're in complete agreement. But that is not the whole reason why the queues today are twice as long as they were in 2014, but there are a number of other things that also record. When it comes to queue billions, it should never be forgotten that the reason why it was introduced was that the county councils, county managers, health managers and operational managers would put availability on the list. That's what made it have such an amazing effect. I visited Örebro and Lindesberg Hospital not long ago and met with the orthopedic director there. The queues have been removed in principle without hiring a single new nurse or doctor. You've only just started working in a new way. They said: Queues are not acceptable, and we intend to do something about it. That is where the queue billion has its effect, and it is after you removed it that we can see that the queues have pulled away. There are other measures as well. In terms of increasing skills and ensuring that we have better staffing, I fully agree with Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, but we also need to ensure that patients receive information. The day my hip needs surgery, I want to be able to look at the screen with the doctor who makes the decision and see that if I choose to go to Hudiksvall it is three months waiting time, but if I go to Lindesberg or Bollnäs I get it done in two weeks. Then we want to be able to see quality alongside that information. Perhaps the most important thing is that you are creating an even greater problem through this crusade against private hospitals. Bollnäs Hospital at home in Gävleborg is a fantastic hospital that today is run by Aleris, that is, the Wallenberg Sphere. There are no waiting times, and they do not have the same problem with recruiting staff. However, according to the agenda you have set for the elections, we must make sure that the profit-making companies are removed from healthcare. It will create even bigger queue problems.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-139	Mr President, I would like to We should remember that during this period, more is also done in healthcare. More patients are being treated and more patients are being operated on. That is no excuse for many to wait and for many to wait longer than the health guarantee. Of course, something should be done about that. They say that you should invest in the staff – because it's about creating good working conditions for them, that they should become more and that they should also get more compensation for what they actually do in healthcare – but how does it go with tax cuts in the 30-billion-dollar class? Anders W Jonsson also talks about the benefits of welfare and calls our proposals for a crusade, which is to be taken in, but to take in is Anders W Jonsson good at. We're not against private options. We know that very well is done in healthcare. But does Anders W Jonsson think that it is reasonable to collect 4.7 billion in profits in the healthcare sector? This was done in 2015, and this profit can only be achieved by reducing staff. That's exactly what it's all about. Does it go together with us to invest in the staff to make the staff feel comfortable, to develop their work and to create trust in each other and their profession? I would also like to take this opportunity to ask Anders W Jonsson about permanent medical contact, because we all want to see one. We Social Democrats want to see it, but it is also about how we can add resources to it. Does Anders W Jonsson agree that it is a good thing that in this reform that we have to make long-term starts with them with the greatest needs, namely the old and the chronic, so that they can get fixed medical contact?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-143	Mr President, I would like to I received three questions from Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson. The first was: is it not wrong to reduce taxes, and should it not instead be spent on health care? That's where the big difference lies between us. During our years at the government power we saw that we could make major tax cuts especially for low and middle income earners of a total of 140 billion, and at the same time it was in 2014 all-time-high in terms of revenue to county councils and municipalities. It was up to 200 billion more, a little depending on how you count, because both tax revenues and government subsidies were significantly higher. So that connection does not exist. With regard to the argument about welfare gains, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson and V widower suggest that the private health care providers can only make a profit in a situation where they reduce the workforce and impair the working environment. But it's just the opposite. When you visit the private health care providers and ask them if they have problems recruiting staff, they say: No, when we advertise a position many people are looking for. When you talk to the staff of private-run units, they say that the difference is like night and day compared to what it is like in the county council. Here we can be involved in deciding, and here there are high demands on quality, they say. This is because the private health care provider knows that the business can be run successfully, it is about being able to ensure that the staff thrive, that the staff loves to go to work and that the staff wants to be involved and have influence. This is what we can see in the health and safety surveys: The private health care providers are much better at ensuring that the staff really thrive and have a great influence. As far as the third question is concerned, I have not actually written it down and have also forgotten it, so I can answer it on another occasion.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-146	Mr President, I would like to I hope that health care will become an election issue, because it is about equality and class – both geographically and personally. These are issues that the Left has loaded on in negotiations with the Government, and I am very proud that the Government, together with the Left, has loaded in 4.7 billion to health care from the budget last autumn. But more needs to be done for equal care. Nobody's mentioned this in the hall yet. We want to set up a parliamentary inquiry into healthcare that analyses both regional and social differences and their consequences, and we want the investigation to come back with a long-term and robust solution. Year after year we see that too little happens geographically and classwise. The health gaps are deepening. Governments come and go, and inequality persists. Today, with good finances, it can buy itself a health check. Instead, the focus of the left is that, in areas with poor health, health surveys could be targeted at the residents as an offer for preventive purposes. With Left there will be equality-marked reforms and with right hand bathed business as in Stockholm or queue billions that make the staff run faster. This is not a health crisis in Sweden, it is a human resources crisis. The key to good and accessible care is better conditions for the staff. The staff is the gold. Working in healthcare must be attractive with good wages, good working conditions, participation, opportunities for research and not least adapted and shortened working hours. It is about creating the conditions for the experienced staff to stay in the city. We have negotiated 2 billion to strengthen health workers' conditions, but more is needed. A holistic approach is needed to ensure health care staff supply throughout the country both now and in the future in the form of a long-term skills supply plan that analyses the situation and makes concrete proposals in the short and long term. The Left Party has also negotiated that SEK 300 million should be set aside annually to give more nurses the opportunity for specialist training. But we want more in the Left. We think that all nurses should be able to take their specialist training with their wages. This is a matter of survival for health care. The two largest regions in Sweden are governed by the Alliance. In Västra Götaland 400 places are closed because there are no nurses in the nursing departments. Here, the 2018 budget has funnily enough chosen to cancel the effort on equal pay. That's the way it works! Sahlgrenska University Hospital was ranked by Dagens Medicin as Sweden's worst university hospital. The main explanation is care queues and overcrowding. It is quite clear that closed care places lead to failing patient safety. In 2016, Sweden occupied the bottom of 27 EU countries with 2.32 disposable health care places per 1 000 inhabitants. This has been a long process. It has not happened in the last three four years but started in 2000. Unfortunately, both teams, right and left, are guilty of this. Let's take a look at that. Patient safety should be assessed in relation to the reduction in the number of care places. The new Karolinska Hospital is really like the series Pang in the building. It is only a pity that taxpayers should pay for a misbuilt hospital and extreme costs for consultants. At Nya Karolinska, 674 health care places are closed. It's like two medium-sized hospitals would close. Several hundred patients have been sent to Uppsala, Örebro and Linköping for surgery. I mention Stockholm and Västra Götaland because there are conditions here to build an equal and stable care where the staff stay. They're rich regions. But this is not done. Primary care needs to be strengthened and developed. At present, for example, a majority of all health centres do not have access to psychologists or therapists. It is quite remarkable when mental illness increases. Primary care should also be able to invest more in digitalisation and technical solutions to improve accessibility. It is perhaps better to invest in the county councils' ability to accommodate the digital solutions than to hand this over to Dr Cash, that is, the various online doctors, who take home the profits. Cancer is a charged concept. Sweden has come a long way when it comes to the possibility of survival and living with cancer. But there is an inequality that is quite striking. I know many in different county councils around Sweden, regardless of the colour of the county council, who do not get what they should have in the form of care and treatment. I've seen this very closely. In a county council, 41 percent of lung cancer patients are offered a specific study. In another county council, 98 percent are offered the same survey. These are unacceptable differences. We have to do something about this. Waiting times also differ between county councils. This is an unacceptable inequality and something that has been ticking year after year, regardless of the majority relations in Parliament. There is a clear correlation between class and patient participation in screening programmes, treatment choices, aftercare and survival. Those with short education and low income draw the rivet. If survival had been as high for all as in the groups with the most survivors, some 3,000 lives could have been saved. High-skilled people are given more time for their questions and wishes, despite the fact that people with lower education are in much greater need of such support. This, my friends, is a class question. The left wants to set up an investigation that reviews the unjustified class and geographical differences in cancer care – reservation 42. Mental illness is worth a debate of its own. Getting help in psychiatry is sometimes like playing the lottery. The patient is often at a disadvantage here. There is plenty of research on how to treat different diagnoses. Despite this, not all of the care that works best is provided. It is important that the patient has influence over the care provided and that various options are presented. It should be investigated how psychiatry can work with standardised care in areas where there are national guidelines in the same way as other healthcare services. Although female genital mutilation is banned in many countries of the world, tradition has proved difficult to stop. The National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that approximately 38,000 girls and women living in Sweden have been subjected to genital mutilation in their various home countries. Many of these live in pain and disease associated with the mutilation. It is important that the women affected receive support and help when they seek care. There is a need for national efforts to reach gender-mutilated healthcare. This is a very specific question, we think. Another care must be possible, but it requires a policy that prioritises welfare over tax cuts and looks at inequality. Nurses, nurses and doctors are fighting for better working environment and working conditions and wages that are relevant. They do not get that through tax reductions and tax exemptions for the richest in this country. They do not get this through extreme profit withdrawals or a greater influence on the care of businesses, health companies and insurance companies. I am of course in favour of our reserves, but for time winning, I am in favour of reservations 18 and 42 and rejection of the others.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-164	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to say, on behalf of the Liberals, that we naturally support all our reservations in this comprehensive report and the collective reservations of the Alliance, but for the time to come I only ask for reservation 35 under paragraph 23 and reservation 54 under paragraph 41. This report is large and broad, and my comrades have already highlighted many important elements, which I naturally support. We can debate everything from primary care to specialist care, dental care, psychiatry, ambulance care, ethical treatments, ethics and pharmaceuticals, etc. I would also like to agree with the statement by Mrs Sörenson of the Social Democrats that Swedish health care, in an international comparison, is of very high standard and is perhaps one of the world's absolute greatest, for those who come into existence. But let me raise my eyes a little, Mr President. We are facing a health revolution. Time with doctors and the help of medical expertise has always been a scarce Hippokrates, from the time of Hippocrates via Dr Finlay until today. But with what we have before us in relative time, there could be something abundant. There are several factors that work together to make this possible, but at the heart of this is the accelerating technological development, not least in the digital field. In addition, this right of use allows all health professionals to do what they want – and should – to do, namely to provide patients with care, support and health promotion in one of the workplaces of health care, which in itself is becoming increasingly health-promoting rather than, as it is today, harmful to those who go there. There is a large production of burnt-out people in Swedish healthcare. Mr President, I would like to In the ongoing discussion on all shortcomings of care and the accelerating health crisis, one can be led to believe that the root of the problems lies in highly specialised care, something that the media, in particular, forcefully highlights – in the most difficult. Or it may be thought that it is in the simplest, everyday care and near health care. But that is not the case. Nor is it true that Parliament's recent decision on the national high-specialised care would apply to surgery in general or to any general level structure. That is definitely not the case. I note, Mr President, that we Liberals are both confident and proud of the decision taken by Parliament to centralise national highly specialised care, and we fully support it. The real problems lie just in the middle of the most difficult and easiest in healthcare. What is it about? Well, it's about Aunt Amanda's ambulance trips to the E.R. because the nursing home staff don't get in touch with the doctor in charge and don't dare to take responsibility when Aunt Amanda fails at night. It's about Uncle Amandus, who spends many days in the medical clinic with all his different diagnoses and amounts of medicines because nobody has overall responsibility and personal knowledge – no one dares take responsibility. The technical, more inhumane, term for this is that it is the multisick elderly who do not receive the care and care to which they are entitled and really deserve. It is also about Selma and Oskar, who do not get their neuropsychiatric difficulties assessed and therefore do not get the support and start in life to which they are entitled. It is therefore about the children who get stuck in endless queues for child and youth psychiatry and who feel worse and worse because the system simply fails them and so on. This list I can do for a long time. Mr President, I would like to The right, influence and freedom of choice of these people are now threatened on a point-by-point basis by today's rule. Overall, the various proposals put forward by the government and announced on profit savings, stopping laws and increasingly complicated regulations would in practice make entrepreneurship and choice in welfare impossible. Even before the proposals become reality, they mean stopping start-ups. Investments that are important for well-being and for health care go to waste. The drive to improve operations disappears. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals believe that technological progress in health and medicine in the near future is likely to be more significant than any other development. As more and more people become connected, these advances will benefit people throughout our elongated country and, indeed, all over the world. To say, as in some articles, that technology, accessibility and freedom of choice would be unequal and undemocratic is as stupid as to say that planned economy is what will save the world. In other words, that is not true. Improved treatments, the ability to detect diseases in the past, the management of medical records and the monitoring of personal health promise more equitable access to healthcare for all. Mr President, I would like to We are facing a health revolution. Now, together, we need to remove all obstacles so that technological progress and all the professions that exist throughout health care can give longer and healthier lives and improve the quality of life to as many as possible as soon as possible.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-177	Mr President, I would like to Well, Bengt, digitalisation is wonderful, I think. You can tap into the caregiver and check out, get a new recipe and so on. But the question is: Who should own digitalization? Wouldn't it be good if digitalisation were like Storuman in Västerbotten? It is partly the county council that accommodates digitalisation there, and you can connect to the business? Today it is not really so in Sweden, but the digitisation has been a bit kidnapped by Dr Cash, as we call them, i.e. the online doctors. They've taken over a little bit. They have no connection to different activities. It can be problematic. I would like to see digitisation within each county council, where you have the opportunity to connect to your health care provider. It will not replace, so to speak, the existing doctor. But in some cases this can be done. This is particularly true of sparsely populated areas. It has worked extremely well, as far as I know, precisely in Storuman in Västerbotten. It is an example of how the county councils can accommodate digitalisation and use it so that patients can benefit from it in a different way. Yes, it is very clever to be able to call Dr Cash and get antibiotics before going to Thailand, but the question is whether it gives everyone so much. What does a study of who calls Dr. Cash indicate? Are they the ones who live in sparsely populated areas and the archipelago? No, there were many Stockholmers who called. Then you can ask yourself what is the situation with accessibility. Who is the care available for, and what should we do with digitalisation? I absolutely believe in the digitisation of care, but then it must be accommodated by the county councils in-house, so to speak, and work and not just be out-house.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-180	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the questions! I can only say that if we had handed over everything in public, technological development and, what should we say, accessibility developments in Swedish health care had almost failed in principle because the incentives are not there. It is the entrepreneurs who are driving the development forward. It is the entrepreneurs who are responsible for the technical issues, but also for the health and safety at work and accessibility issues in the healthcare sector, and in this way drive the development forward. I can see that my own county council, Region Halland, is now starting its own online doctoral clinics. That's great. It would never have happened without Dr. Kry. This would never have happened if there were no entrepreneurs willing to take the risk and see the opportunity to offer people care. I see it as a symbiosis. It is a collaboration in terms of developing accessibility and Swedish healthcare. I am very happy that the county councils are developing their receptions in the interior of Norrland, Halland's coastal region and Stockholm's inner city. But without the whip and carrot of powerful entrepreneurs it would not have happened. That's why I pay tribute to both of them.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-183	Mr President, I would like to Of course, entrepreneurs are needed, but it would be good if the county councils were on a little more than they have. These entrepreneurs, Doctor Cash, have also meant that county councils have paid quite a lot of money for every small connection. There have been over the sale of antibiotics and so on. Entrepreneurs might have been able to be used in a more cunning way within county councils. You could have brought in entrepreneurs who build concepts, so to speak. I wouldn't have had a problem with that. But it's gonna be a little crazy. I think they have had quite a long time in the county councils – it's also about resources – to build up their systems. I think it has gone a little too slow, I have to say, to build up the county councils variants of the online doctors. Then you hand over the market. It goes without saying that entrepreneurs jump on that train. This could mean an increase in winnings. This may involve some uncertainty for the patient. It is not that the online doctor has a connection to your health centre, but it may be a bit of a hoop hello. Now the government is going to review this. I think that's great. How are we going to use Dr. Cash in a smart way? Maybe it should cost a little more to call Dr. Cash than it has. Maybe it should cost something like a regular doctor's appointment. 1177 isn't completely wrong. This is being used a lot for advice. I believe in digital development. It will be exciting to see if the county councils will be hard on this and if they also get more money for it.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-187	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that everything you, Karin Rågsjö, are here to celebrate and want to see that the county councils do not should have been done – and it will definitely not be done in the future either – if there were not powerful entrepreneurs who actually push on. I can only say that. I'm the first to agree that there's been detours in the starting blocks. Isn't that right? There are mistakes in all industries when things start up. But I went to see Kry the other day. It's one of the online doctors, as you call them. On the same day, I met some of the leading people in Strama, those who are working to bring down antibiotic use to reasonable and fair levels in the country. Both noted that there is no one in Sweden who has as much contact with Strama as the online doctors today. There is no one in Swedish health care who has such compliance as the online doctors today have with regard to the antibiotic medicinal product. So you correct yourself, and you do your utmost to give patients the absolute best. This creates air in the system and place at the health centre and within the emergency wards of specialised care for those patients who really need to be there. This is something we should celebrate and highlight. Now it turns out that the compensation systems, which Karin Rågsjö mentioned, are being developed so that they fit this new one. It wouldn't have happened if someone hadn't been there and pushed on. Certainly we need journal systems in the country where everyone fits in so that everyone can see, and this development comes because there are entrepreneurs who drive the development in that direction.
i-AbwDXom5TFAj6yaefLgZLn	Mr President, I would like to The current report by the Committee on Social Affairs on health care deals with some 600 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise for the last two and the current Parliamentary Session. The vast majority of these claims are proposed to be rejected, usually on the grounds that the matter is currently being prepared in some way during the government's review and that the Riksdag should therefore not interfere in this process. Or as it is called in political language: The Riksdag should therefore not take any initiative in connection with the motion's request for the Riksdag to act on the matter. Sometimes this can be the right decision, especially if a serious processing process is ongoing within the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to I have stepped up in this debate to explain that this is not the case with my motion 2017/ 18:1257, which relates to medical age assessments since last spring taking place on a massive scale in our country with a technology that is based on a wrong scientific basis and therefore needs to be investigated by an independent reviewer. Although this is an irrefutable fact for those of us who have medical scientific training, the motion was rejected by the committee on the grounds that such an internal review is taking place and that, consequently, Parliament should not interfere in this process. Mr President, I would like to Nothing can be more misleading than this rejection. I would therefore like to use my speech to try to explain to the House how wrong the authorities involved are acting on this important issue, particularly for unaccompanied asylum seekers. The scientific incompetence of the authorities and the failure of the government to take note of this risk depriving them of the right to a legally secure examination of the right of asylum enjoyed by children. Misidentification as an adult entails a much more limited legal protection than they are entitled to under not least the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is now to become Swedish law. In short, this is a legal scandal of gigantic proportions with international consequences for Sweden. Parliament must respond to this, in the absence of any insight at both responsible authority and government level. That is what my motion has tried to describe to the Riksdag, but unfortunately, through its small treatment of the exercise, it relies more on the prevailing incompetence that deals with the problem at government level, where the choice of a non-validated technical/radiological method for medical age assessment of tens of thousands of individuals in practice often constitutes the main legally decisive basis for deciding whether the unaccompanied person is a child with its rights or not. First of all, I would like to point out that I am a warm promoter of medical age assessments. It is necessary that we use the appropriate techniques for this when we have a battle flow of refugees and a great deal cannot prove its age in any other, credible way. The National Board of Health and Welfare and, above all, the National Board of Forensic Medicine have dealt with the issue with a full-scale review today of all those who claim to be children and who apply for asylum. However, the authorities have chosen, with stubbornness and prestige, against better scientific knowledge, bull-headedly to apply a totally legally insecure medical methodology prior to a legal decision on their legal status as a child. This is one of the worst abuses that the government, through its passivity, allows the international human rights scene, and not least the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is now to become Swedish law, to see. At this point, it is clear that Parliament must act and decide in accordance with my motion that the question of choosing the best possible, most validated medical technology in order to assess the likelihood of an asylum seeker's age must be urgently investigated by an independent reviewer with sufficient scientific competence for this. It shall not take place through an internal review of a proven completely substandard competence for this important mission. One reason why this medical scandal has not received legitimate public attention is that it is in many ways very technical in nature. I have the great advantage of being a professor and chief physician in addition to a Member of Parliament. Against this background, I have had a very special, good opportunity to examine and assess the scientific evidence on which the responsible authorities and their critics are arguing. Mr President, I would like to I will not devote my term of office to going through and analysing in detail the scientific and technical basis for the problematic methodology that is now being used a lot to assess those asylum seekers who say they are under the age of 18 and are therefore to be regarded as children. My parliamentary colleagues have to rely on my professional ability to do such a scientific fact-finding, and of course I am always available for this discussion with any one of you who wants to take part in this outside this chamber debate. The only thing I wish today is for you to support my motion 2017/ 18:1257 to investigate whether Sweden today is making medical age assessments based on credible or incorrect scientific evidence. How dangerous can this be in comparison to the fact that such an independent investigation is likely to conclude that we have a legally insecure process based on scientific inconsistency, which in turn is caused by too little scientific competence of those responsible in the relevant authorities, in particular within the National Board of Forensics, its management and its so-called expert group? My convinced view, following the delicate examination of the facts of the case, is that the objections of the critics and the government's assertion of scientificness are not on the same planet. This raises the issue to a higher democratic dimension. Is it the case that in this case the authorities do not have the necessary medical competence to require central advisors to the government and parliament? If so, what is the structure behind this? What are the consequences? Mr President, I would like to In my office I have a copy of a letter from February this year to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. It is from the country's most competent medical experts in the field of forensics, employed by the National Board of Forensics. The letter is signed by Sweden's three forensic professors in Stockholm, Umeå and Uppsala. This letter on four condensed pages is a sulfurous submission about how the Swedish Agency for Forensic Medicine has completely lapsed in its mission to lead also forensic research so that you can get the right basis for difficult decisions, such as techniques for a legally certain age assessment, before the technology can be implemented for large-scale use in practice at all. The letter is a public document, and I recommend my parliamentary committees to requisition it from the Government Office. I would like to end this debate by referring to some of the wordings that are there: a lack of highly qualified scientific staff in the management of the work is therefore the most important reason why forensic research cannot be carried out optimally. This has meant that the quality of operational activities has not been significantly increased in several years. The research findings and the development work that led to new methods have not led to their being used in practice. The direct reason for this misunderstanding is that neither DGs, subordinate managers nor document management system managers have the competence to assess what is important in forensic diagnostics. Each year, the annual financial statements convey a misleading, embellished picture of ongoing research and development work, although the section has gradually become shorter over the years. ..................................................... In addition, the RMV's first DG Kurt Roos showed that all unit hephers/equivalent in the country's six forensic units were both senior physicians and professors. In contrast, over the last 18 years, under three Directors-General, all without training in or experience in medical activities and research, developments have been very unsatisfactory, with systematic segregation of research from routine activities. The most recent example is RMV's handling of the new mission medical age assessments. Here, DG Monica Rodrigo, probably due to a lack of knowledge in research, has appointed three medical practitioners – with weak and without scientific experience – as RMVs This has led, as is well known, to the choice of an unvalidated method of medical age assessment for tens of thousands of individuals. A work management with scientific competence and critical approach could have carried out age assessments on the same scale as now, but with proven methods that have known and documented degree of safety. On the contrary, DG Monica Rodrigo closed the RMV Scientific Council shortly before the Government left the mission on medical age assessments – without replacing the Council with anything else. ..................................................... Against this background, one might wonder whether the Forensic Medicine Agency has become a legal work instead of a medical work. It is essential if the credibility of medical competence in the exercise of justice is to be maintained and confirmed. Mr President, I would like to I urge biphale l to my motion 2017/ 18:1257, medical age assessments on a false basis, which deals with the issue of an independent investigation of current facts and announces this to the government.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-209	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the honourable Member for raising these issues in the debate, which have been of great concern to the committee during the financial year. I would like to take this opportunity to tell you that, precisely because of the uncertainties raised by the honourable Member on several occasions, we in committee have asked both the National Board of Forensics and the Migration Agency to come to committee. We are concerned that the scientific basis that is needed does not exist and that what is found in the studies is used in some cases in a different way from the basis. For the individual who conducts a survey, the result of the survey, if it shows that it is highly likely to have reached the age of government, may be decisive for survival. If an uncertain basis is used as if it were a truth, and thus does not investigate other things to determine whether the person has reached the age of authority or not, wrong decisions can be made. It is not only a question of whether the result can be trusted, but also of how we use the result. Each one of us who has visited a school class with 15- or 19-year-olds knows that only by looking at them in the classroom can you not see if they are the same age because they do not look to be the same age. With this uncertainty, we actually have to deal with the investigations. There is no way to accurately determine someone's chronological age. I am pleased that the honourable Member has raised the issue. There are already tasks to follow up, but we must not focus unilaterally on the method, but we must also look at how the method is used.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-213	Mr President, I would like to The Member's name is Finn Bengtsson, and he has examined the matter carefully. The fact that the Social Affairs Committee has taken the initiative to raise the issue of the National Board of Forensic Medicine is, of course, commendable. But are you sure you have the right information? The three highest medical competences within the National Board of Forensic Medicine, the three professors of forensic medicine, should also have been heard by the Social Affairs Committee, given that they are in prison with a knowledge that is lacking in the entire executive management and its expert group. That is what makes the issue so serious. There are techniques and methods that are much safer than the one they have chosen to use in Sweden today. That is the whole core issue. If there is a more precise method used in other countries, what makes Sweden so unique and use a completely different method when it is also developed at a low level of competence? It is completely incomprehensible to me and dangerous as well. I can take an example of how incompetent you are in the executive management. It has been said that these young unaccompanied children who have come to our country have lived under such stressful conditions that their bones are likely to mature more slowly. Thus, they would be slightly older than what the studies wrongly show. As we review the literature, it appears that the vast majority of studies that have examined the impact of stress on the skeleton show that it matures faster. So one has totally missed such an important point. With that basis for decision, the work says that you have the best and most legally secure method. You get evidence in your face, yet you stand like Baghdad Bob and say that nothing has happened and that you should continue to use the method. Here I believe that the House must be allowed to take a position on this issue once and for all. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs cannot simply put the question 'adcta'. That is why I have raised the motion and voted in favour of it.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-219	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the exercise has been initiated, and I am pleased that the Riksdag and the Government will continue to keep a strong focus on looking at how the method is used, how it is designed and how it continues to look for better methods. However, we must keep in mind that, so far, no country has a method of determining age. There are different methods in which one can probably arrive at if one has reached a certain limit in age, but we must not be led to believe that it is possible to find a method that, like the carbon-14 method, can say with accuracy when something has happened. I can't do that! I share Finn Bengtsson's assessment that when we use a method – no matter what it is – we must therefore continue to look at whether there are other methods. We should not lock ourselves in this method because there are great uncertainties. There are also some methods to which reference has been made in the debate and which would be much better. I do not think that these are the methods Finn Bengtsson refers to. This applies, among other things, to methods used by Fifa, for example. These methods have a low degree of precision. But whether a young person should be allowed to play a football tournament or not is not so vital. It does not matter to use a low probability. This is about the lives of children and young people. That is why we need to be much more careful about how we use the methods. Just as Finn Bengtsson lifts up, I am friends that we are trying to find methods that can help us in the assessments of age. The alternative is that individual administrators at the Migration Board should try to guess just how old the person is by watching and talking to a child or a youth. Many of these children and young people have no identification document because no birth certificate was issued when they were born.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-223	Mr President, I would like to It is obvious, Emma Henriksson, that there are no medical methods that can 100 percent determine a medical age. There is no medical method that is 100% in this way, but all methods should be as good as possible. My whole point is that here you don't use the best method. There is not the evidence base needed to use the method and give these children a legally secure trial. As extensive research work is required to illustrate the issue, the following questions may be asked. If the method has such a central legal impact on children's rights in carrying out a legally secure asylum procedure, which far exceeds those of an adult, why has not a research proposal allocated resources on this issue? Cancer research and all kinds of diseases are pointed out for support, but money has not been set aside to develop such a method. This could have been done for many years and thus come much further in research. Sweden could have been the world leader in this area. For me, it is a bit hypocritical when, on the one hand, the left-wing government wants to introduce the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a Swedish law, in which it should in principle rely on what children say, on the other hand it does not want to develop a technique that meets the standard of legally sound assessment of children's age. It'll be hypocrisy, Emma Henriksson. At this point, it is important to adopt only the Social Affairs Committee, but the whole Parliament can take a position on my motion. It will be exciting to see how the House has understood my presentation. I am at your service to discuss the details of my review scientifically and all the documentation available. It is quite clear that a scientist concludes that critics are right and the authorities are wrong.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-226	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate SoU22 Governance principles in health care and a reinforced health guarantee, based on a government proposal. These are proposals on which there is now much agreement in Swedish politics. We see that unlike many other countries, we have very high hospital care and need to move towards more care being carried out near the patient. The shift that has begun to steer care from hospitals where patients most often need their care, i.e. primary care, is something that we support because it is often the most ill – the oldest patients, those with many chronic diseases – who also visit primary care most. After a perhaps advanced effort, that's where they get the most of their care. This is where they need continuity in the doctor, diabetes nurse, counselor or any other of the health professions you need to meet when you live with ill health for a long time, whether it is mental or physical. We in the Christian Democrats support this. At the same time, we see that we need to do more. We know that for those who need care quickly and urgently, it is difficult today to get that care where you would rather have it: at their primary health centre that you have met before and who know what ailments you usually have to deal with. You try to call. Sometimes you can't even get through. When you arrive you often do not get the time you would need quickly enough, so you turn to the emergency room. Once in the emergency room you do not become a priority because you are not acutely dying, but you have to sit and wait. Those who wait the longest are patients over 80 years of age. At Mälar Hospital, patients over 80 years of age had to wait at least five hours in median time, some up to ten and a half hours. It is clear that the waiting time in the emergency room is as long as the care does not have the availability you would need. In order to provide care with sufficient availability in primary care, we need to raise ambition. In its proposal, the Government has chosen to strengthen the healthcare guarantee in such a way that it proposes that it be given the opportunity to come to healthcare within three days. It may seem to be an improvement in relation to today's level of seven days. But we are convinced that if we are to reverse the trend, we should actually give patients what they need and what those citizens of our country should actually have the right to expect, they should be able to receive care within 24 hours. You do not seek emergency care if it is not urgent, and what happens when not everyone is allowed to come to care is that the weakest patients – the most fragile, those who already today do not have sufficient access to care – are the ones who will continue to receive the worst care. Anyone who has a fat wallet and contacts and is well educated will always be able to come to care, because it finds other ways. But those who do not have the resources in different ways to get to health care are the ones who will have to wait the longest. Strengthening the healthcare guarantee so that you get the right to get in touch with and get help from healthcare within 24 hours in primary care is the way we need to go if we are to deliver on the welfare promise that citizens expect us to deliver. We know that today we have a shortage in certain professions. That is why it is so important that we take advantage of all the trained healthcare professionals that exist. The doctors in the form of general specialists are an important resource in healthcare, of course, and when you need to see a doctor you should also see a doctor. There should be no gatekeeper who says: You do not have the right to see a doctor. You'll meet someone else, because we haven't organized our care so we can deliver what you expect. But we must also make use of resources in the other professions. Specialist nurses, doctors with other specialties, curators, psychologists, physiotherapists– on many occasions when we need to seek medical care, even when it's urgent, there are other professions we need. If we do not move towards ensuring that the health guarantee also applies to the other professions, we will limit the resources available to patients. Then it is not the need for care that governs, but it depends on how you have organized yourself and how you have chosen to manage your care locally. I therefore support the Christian Democrats' reservation 4, which deals with these issues. We are pleased that there is an announcement that we will define the mission of primary care throughout the country. I know that the government parties will say that it is unnecessary because such a proposal is already under way. We are happy if it comes, but the reason why the announcement is included is that it has not been quite safe all the way if the proposal comes, and we think it is important that the Riksdag makes a clear position: that it is time to give all citizens of our country one and the same message of what they can expect within the mission of primary care. Having said that, Mr President, I am only in favour of the reservation I mentioned earlier. For time winning, I do not insist on the rest, but of course I support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats.
i-WiHScpLC8pMtUhNpfchCtW	I would like to welcome the Minister. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson and Minister Ann Linde. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-239	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. When I meet representatives of the Swedish Armed Forces, they are completely absorbed by what they write from the Swedish Armed Forces in the budget base for 2019. To put it simply, if there are no substantial capital injections and increases in levels in the coming years, there will be delays in equipment systems, reductions in ambition, removal of materials, reduction of basic training, reduction of exercises, loss of ammunition, disappearance of spare parts, disappearance of various types of vehicles and the loss of certain life extensions. Mr President, I would like to That is why, in the coming years, we need to see a step up of continuous additions to our defence economy. Is the Swedish government prepared to provide significant resources for defence in the coming years? Is the government prepared to give immediate notice? Otherwise, all of this will happen.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-243	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wallmark for the question. When making a budget, some care is required, and it requires control of the substance of what you propose. There will be a delivery of 26 billion to the Swedish Armed Forces by 2020. Now there is a demand picture of an additional 18 billion. We will go in with planning instructions shortly, and we expect answers to that by the end of June. Then we have gone to the bottom of this process and turned the various stones and know the truth more precisely. At the same time, we have set up an investigation in which the Swedish Financial Control Agency is reviewing control functions and other matters within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces' financial management. We have this under control and are working on the issue, but I am not prepared to put my foot down until we get to the bottom of all the parameters. What I am doing, unlike Wallmark, is proper budgetary resources that have an impact, while Wallmark can present an opposition budget. I want to wait until we have all the cards on the table.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-249	Mr President, I would like to Politics is to want, and then you have to want something. I think it is important to set out clear ambitions for the coming years, not for the Minister of Defence to provide for the Moderates or the opposition, but for Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces to demand this information. Then it is not possible to soak in the step. The Moderates have put forward a proposal for an additional EUR 18 billion over the next three years. There will be government policy at the change of government that Sweden needs.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-251	Mr President, I would like to This is to be set against Wallmark's promises of tax cuts, so if the accident were to occur, we will see what will happen in practice. Our goal is to increase military capabilities step by step. I've been clear about that all along. Today we have better defence capabilities than we had three years ago, after your eight years of reduced ability to pursue a consistent defence policy. I am well aware of the situation. But you have to keep the pianos in order before you put your foot down, and that's why we want to push this process right up to June.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-255	Mr President, I would like to The issue of the EU budget is involved. It is more than SEK 15 billion in increased fees if the Commission's proposal becomes a reality. Yesterday an opinion poll was published in Svenska Dagbladet, and a large majority of respondents want a clarification from the government that they will veto the proposal should it be heard and become the Commission's final proposal. My question to Minister Ann Linde is: Is the government prepared to use the Swedish veto if this proposal becomes final?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-258	Mr President, I would like to I thank Martin Kinnunen for the question. This is an important issue, because it is about big money. What we have said is that we are certainly not prepared to pay the membership fee in accordance with the proposal put forward by the Commission. We have said that we think that the 1% framework should apply. Nor do we accept that the discounts that several countries have will be phased out. However, there are parts of the budget that we think are good, such as increasing the proportion of climate investments and having conditionality in the budget, that is, you cannot expect to get money if you do not comply with the principles of the rule of law. We had the first meeting on Monday when the Commission presented the proposal to the ministers, and now the negotiations are beginning.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-261	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats, of course, appreciate that the government and most parties in the Riksdag have a budget-restrictive line. It is really only one of the alliance parties that thinks it is reasonable for the EU budget and the Swedish levy to increase. Nevertheless, it feels as if the Government skips the issue. Is the government prepared to use the Swedish veto if the final proposal looks like today's proposal?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-263	Mr President, I would like to We are not prepared to say exactly how to deal with a final situation in a negotiation that may last for one and a half or two years, because we do not know where we end up. Now there is a negotiation going on, and I made our starting points very clear on Monday. We do not accept the proposal that exists, because this increase in the membership fee is totally unacceptable to Sweden.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-266	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist and concerns the letter of intent for enhanced military cooperation between Sweden, Finland and the United States. The Left Party defends the military freedom of alliance, which we believe has served us well for a long time. The starting point for Sweden's defence and security policy is to protect our country's security. This presupposes a modern defence force capable of meeting the various threats that our country may face and which can also be a peacekeeping force in the world. This presupposes that Sweden has a credible military freedom of alliance. At a time of uncertainty and military rearmament, Sweden should stand up for stability and relaxation. Does the Minister of Defence not think that the declaration of intent with the United States represents a further rapprochement with NATO and thus a departure from our military alliance freedom and undermines our independence and our military room for manoeuvre?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-270	Mr President, I would like to I think the questioner has the wrong analysis. Parliament has said that we should build on two pillars, both upgrading national military capabilities and cooperation with countries in our neighbourhood, with the United Kingdom and with the United States to maintain the transatlantic link and an activity within the framework of NATO's partnership. This is the line taken by the government and I believe that 70% of Parliament supports it. The basis for this is cooperation based on a military non-alignment position. Practicing with others can hardly be perceived as an aggressive act. On the other hand, it is a question of developing capacity and national capacity and competence. In the time in which we live, we must cooperate with others in order to deal with possible crisis situations, whatever these may be. This is the very basis, and herein lies nothing of NATO membership or rapprochement with NATO, but cooperation with others.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-275	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. I have nothing against cooperation, not in any way, but I do not see that cooperation is synonymous with cooperating with the US and NATO. On the other hand, we are happy to cooperate with Finland and our Nordic neighbours. I find it difficult to see how close cooperation with the US and indirectly the NATO nuclear alliance promotes stability and security. I find it remarkable that cooperation with a nation led by a very unpredictable President, who has recently contributed to making security in the Middle East considerably more difficult.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-278	Mr President, I would like to The situation is that for a long time we have practiced and collaborated with Finland, the Baltic countries, Poland, Germany, the Nordic countries, France, the United States and the United Kingdom. We have contractual relations that regulate this, and there is nothing in these agreements that will put an end to our military freedom of alliance. However, when we interact with others in the type of exercises that we carry out, it is a signal that leads to stability in both the short and long term and therefore has an effect on peace in our part of Europe.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-281	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Conversion and further training are an extremely important prerequisite for the labour market we have and the transformation that is now taking place there with, among other things, automation and digitalisation. The government and especially the Government are happy to talk about being able to study throughout life, but proposals and reforms shine with their absence. We have not seen any proposals for higher-age studies, higher levels of release or increased access to additional study funds. The possibility of combining work and studies is an important prerequisite for being able to study higher up the age bracket. My question to the Government is therefore: why has the government not presented any reforms during its four years in power in order to increase this possibility?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-285	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for this important question, Fredrik Christensson! The question is about the government's higher education policy now and how we can have a higher education policy that meets the great needs of the 2020s. We have chosen to summarise this in three areas. It is about the existence of higher education throughout the country, throughout life and throughout the world, which is about the internationalisation of higher education. We have done several things to ensure that we are able to cope with lifelong learning. Among other things, an admission proposal is now on the table of the Riksdag, which is about being able to open up more paths to higher education even later in life. We propose a national qualification test that will open the way for those who have been in the workplace and may not have full competence from upper secondary school. This is what the Center Party rejects and votes against. I wonder what this will lead to.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-289	Mr President, I would like to The government obviously does not answer my question. I asked why the government has not implemented or put forward proposals for reforms regarding the economic conditions for studying later in life, raising the age of study funds, providing the opportunity for an extra year of study or changing the amount of the grant so that work and studies in higher education can be combined. In these areas, despite four years of government, the government's proposal shines with its absence.
i-K4zaYHVjwkwiQEq6kvTsq5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson! I just answered the questions about the concrete proposals we have put forward to promote lifelong learning. We are expanding the university with 25 000 new places across the country, we have made sure that there will be more shorter courses and summer courses and we have added a very important investigation – The Steering and Resource Investigation – which is tasked with looking at how governance and resource distribution can be changed so that lifelong learning is promoted.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-295	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson and is about healthcare in Skåne. In Skåne it is an extremely strained situation. 17,000 sets are waiting for surgery at this moment. In particular, it is difficult for children and young people. The queues for BUP, children's and young people's psychiatry, are extremely long. In 2014, the proportion of young people in Skåne who received help from BUP was within 30 days nine out of ten, but now it has decreased to four out of ten. In February 2018, 27 per cent of children received an assessment within 30 days. I know that the government has today put forward proposals to address the problems of health care, but these are extremely inadequate. Would the Government like to give an indication of what the government wants to do fundamentally to help up the health care situation?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-298	Mr President, I would like to This is a very urgent issue that Mr Skånberg raises. We see how healthcare is facing huge challenges around the country. Skåne was mentioned, but there are several areas. Basically, this is about our demographic development where more and more people are in need of care, but it is gratifying that more and more people can receive care thanks to the development. There is therefore a need for new, healthy resources for health care, aimed at children and young people's psychiatry, which was mentioned here, but also for health care in general. This is what the government brings and also what the government promises to bring in the coming years. Ensuring resources for welfare will be the major issue of the next parliamentary term. In addition to new resources, professionalisation is needed – a space for those who work in healthcare to engage in their core mission and not be burdened by too much bureaucracy, hopeless IT systems and other things. Resources for health care will be set against tax cuts in the election campaign.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-303	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to add 27 1⁄2 billion more than the government over the next three years, so when it comes to resources, the Christian Democrats are not behind. Today we were told that the government wants to give 275 million in support of young people. It is completely inadequate, as we know that in Skåne there are queues in one and a half years for neuropsychiatric investigation. The government goes completely empty-handed, or almost, into the electoral movement.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-306	Mr President, I would like to It's actually the other way around, Tuve Skånberg. We have invested a lot of resources, both earmarked resources for several different parts of healthcare – including children's and young people's psychiatrists who have already received targeted resources – and unallocated resources for county councils, which they well need. We promise to provide new, very large resources during the next parliamentary term. This is necessary to ensure adequate care for all elderly and ill people in our country. Each crown can only be used once. If used for tax cuts, it cannot be used for health care.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-309	The driving forces to move from contribution to work
i-72c2f17eb706e055-310	Mr President, I would like to A recent report from the Expert Group on Studies in Public Economy clearly shows that the knock-on effect of moving from grants to work is weak. You can even lose by taking a job, especially those who are new in Sweden or who have support for their livelihoods. The report highlights in particular the problem of women born abroad. For cohabiting couples who have children and start-up benefit, it pays poorly for the other person in a household, usually the woman, to start working. This is a major problem because foreign-born women have a particularly weak anchor on the Swedish labour market. If we are to reduce exclusion, many different measures are needed, but it is crucial that it always pays to move from grants to work. Therefore, my question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson is: Can you promise that it will always pay more to work than to receive subsidies?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-313	Mr President, I would like to It should always pay to work, and everyone who works should be able to live on their wages. Contrary to what Jessica Polfjärd says, it is well worth going to work from different types of compensation in Sweden. This has been demonstrated in the SNS Conjuncture Council's report, and recently Professor Lars Calmfors spoke about this very point. The general differences are great for those who go from some other kind of livelihood to work. However, ESO has pointed out a problem – although it has not been clearly demonstrated – namely that for certain groups within the establishment, it may even be counterproductive as an economic incentive. This issue should be taken very seriously, although it does not reflect the general situation in which it pays to go to work. What is pointed out in the ESO report is that for larger families with start-up benefits it is not always worthwhile for person number two, which is often the woman, to take a paid job. Now my speaking time is up, so I will have to come back to the next speech.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-316	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. As I said, this has a lock-in effect on women. We in this House cannot fail to take it very seriously. Women are in a weaker position and find it more difficult to get to work, and it is unfortunate that they also lose money by taking a job.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-319	Mr President, I would like to This should be taken very seriously. That is why the government announced in the budget proposal last autumn a review of how the policy is structured in terms of incentives, not least for foreign-born women, to go to study and work. Let me remind you that what applied earlier, under the old government, was that the person who had the establishment allowance could also work without it being deducted at all from the establishment allowance. You could therefore have double remuneration: both salary and benefit. I find that unreasonable, and we have changed that. I'm not prepared to reintroduce it. However, we should look at other parts to make this possible. I just think that we should be careful not to introduce systems that particularly affect families with children, which I think will be the case with a ceiling. What the systems must ensure is a driving force for work for all.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-322	Mr President, I would like to Now Sweden has a space strategy. Finally! Unfortunately, however, it is a little thin in its content. The best thing about it is that it now actually exists. Part of the space strategy is about Esrange, our space base up north. One proposed development is to be able to launch small satellites from there. It is an excellent proposal that has been examined in the past. When this strategy was presented, it sounded, especially in the comments from the Minister for Space, that rockets with small satellites will begin to emerge at any time. But there is one small crux: there is no money for this. Without money for the reconstruction and expansion of Esrange, no satellites will be launched from there. It is not enough to talk about this. Why has the government not provided this money either in the autumn budget or in the spring budget?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-326	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mathias Sundin for the question. I would like to begin by agreeing. It is actually historic that Sweden now has a national space strategy for the first time. The government has made a decision on it, and now it is on Parliament's table for consideration. Yet Sweden has been a very prominent space nation for many years. For example, it is half a century since Esrange was created. This letter is about strategic orientations that will provide a long-term plan for the development of both space research and the activities linked to space, not least industry. But it is not part of the budget bill. We will continue to work on the funding issue in the budget proposal for 2019.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-328	Mr President, I would like to It is indeed the case that the money should not be part of the space strategy. But it had been hoped that they had been in the autumn budget or the spring budget. I know the Minister for Space has pushed for this internally in the government, but I guess she hasn't got the Minister for Finance with her. It is a pity that the Minister for Space will have to answer for this. But what is the reason why money for this has not been prioritised by the government in either the autumn budget or the spring budget?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-329	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mathias Sundin! The reason is that we should take things in the right order. I have said this on several occasions when I have answered the question why the space strategy did not come immediately after the investigation was presented two years ago. Once the Government has decided on the space strategy, it will be discussed by the Riksdag, and after that it is well placed to take this into account in the budget process.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-331	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Knutsson. Swedish school needs more teachers. It is important to raise knowledge outcomes and to ensure an equal school. Therefore, it is good that the government's efforts have now resulted in 28 000 more employees in school and more educated teachers in our classrooms. But if we are to face the lack of teachers that has been built up over many years, more students need to both start and complete a teacher education. We must also have teacher training throughout the country. The fact that more people are applying for teacher training is a very important issue.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-335	Mr President, I would like to I thank Thomas Strand very much for this extremely urgent issue. Like I said, it all starts with a good teacher. We have the ultimate goal that all students and children, no matter where they live and what background they have, should meet competent and competent teachers. We inherited a great shortage of teachers, and it remains. That is why we are now building up teacher training with over 10 000 seats. We also invest in more ways into the teaching profession by giving the opportunity for those who already have the academic subject knowledge to study complementary educational programmes. Today, we have also decided to increase the grant component for all the subjects that are being studied in a supplementary educational education. It is a way to get more people who want to become teachers even later in life.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-337	Mr President, I would like to A model that has been developed at the University of Dalarna has attracted attention and become a success, one may say. That's a lot of search pressure. This model combines work with studies on the teacher programme. It would be good if more universities followed that example. That's what I'd lift in. That is an example. Are there more examples that allow the government to be involved in giving signals on how to increase the number of students in teacher education?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-338	Mr President, I would like to I thank Thomas Strand for the question. It is quite right that we have good examples around the country of how to increase collaboration between the authorities and our teachers in order to offer flexible training opportunities where they also work in school. We also look at the possibility that teachers' assistants and others through a good collaboration should be able to train as teachers.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-340	Mr President, I would like to Time flies when you're having fun. The election movement has finally started properly! It is a highlight for those of us who are politically active. We get the chance to discuss even more politics and visions of the future with people than we do otherwise. But there are also some anxiety clouds. We have seen in other countries the risk of digital impact operations, cyber attacks and the like. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence a question. What is the government's readiness for the election movement in terms of its ability to withstand cyber attacks, fake news and influence operations? How strong is the psychological defense in Sweden?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-342	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. With regard to the forthcoming elections, we should not have any kind of illusion that Sweden could not be subjected to these kinds of operations. We have seen this in other countries, such as Germany, the United States and France. There is preparation at government level in Sweden, and resources have also been set aside to follow the election movement and this type of event. What is then done with it depends, of course, on what it is about and what may happen. But there is preparation for this. With regard to the longer term perspective, I would just like to remind you that the government has announced that we intend to start work to build a new authority for psychological defence in Sweden.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-345	Mr President, I would like to It is good to hear that this is something that is taken very seriously by the government. This is an issue that concerns us, but not just us, but the whole democratic world. In view of this, I wonder whether the Minister for Defence can develop how one thinks that Sweden can work together with other countries on these issues as well.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-347	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for these thoughts. I myself have discussed this with representatives of other countries, and I think it is very important that we start from the values that we have in our country: democracy, transparency and transparency. It is very important that we are prepared to make this clear when it happens, and also to have a discussion and debate with the public, so that we can raise awareness of this. But I believe that in Swedish public opinion there is still some preparation, but it can of course be larger.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-348	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Linde. In December, the European Commission took the first step to activate the so-called nuclear bomb against Poland, which means that Poland can lose its right to vote if it does not stop politicising the courts and otherwise violate the rule of law. Since then, the European Commission has conducted a dialogue with Poland. During the six months that have soon passed, Poland has continued its procrastination strategy. The European Commission announced on Monday that it is not satisfied with Poland. Germany and France have also declared their dissatisfaction. How does Ann Linde feel that the EU should move forward? Should we continue to threaten Poland with the so-called nuclear bomb, even though this threat does not work because it requires unity to trigger it? As we heard the Council of State talking about here earlier, the EU is working on its long-term budget, and possibly economic sanctions against countries that violate fundamental principles of law can be built up. But unity is also required here, and Poland will hardly vote in favour of such a thing when it affects Poland itself.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-352	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Abrahamsson for this. This issue is extremely important. It has turned out that the EU today has relatively small and difficult opportunities to react to countries that do not comply with the rule of law. What happened on Monday when we met with the Ministers for Europe was that Frans Timmermans from the Commission said that Poland has now made a lot of changes that it does not think are sufficient. Poland then presented the amendments in question and considered them to be sufficient. There's a deadline on July 3rd. At the next Council meeting on 26 June, the Commission will say that Poland has now complied with all the recommendations or propose to proceed with a hearing, which is the next formal step in Article 7. And Article 7 does not require unanimity.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-356	Mr President, I would like to I can only wish good luck with this in Europe. However, the fact is that the European Commission has not found that a lot of measures have been implemented in Poland, but it has been found that what has been done is not enough. There are still violations of the rule of law. Germany and France have taken note of this. There you might wish that even the Swedish voice was heard a little louder. I would like to have one more comment. Why do we not hear Sweden's voice louder?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-357	Mr President, I would like to That's where Maria Abrahamsson is wrong. The Swedish voice is one of the voices that has been heard most. We have even been heard more and more than France and Germany. On the other hand, they have followed us, or me, at the Council meetings and said that they agree with the criticism we have made very harshly. At first, only Sweden and Italy demanded conditionality. It is now included in the Commission's proposal. I am very proud of the work we have done in this area. It's really come through.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-360	Mr President, I would like to When the Council of Finance Ministers released its annual report on Tuesday, I asked the Minister of Finance what reforms had been implemented to reduce the employment gap between domestic and non-European born. I then got a long outlay on start-ups and extra services, i.e. more special solutions that polish the statistics but almost never end up in jobs and real jobs. The Council also notes this in its report and states that it is not clear how the new start-up jobs would work significantly better than existing subsidised employment. There is therefore no indication that temporary subsidised employment is sufficient for this group to be firmly established in the labour market. My question to Minister Ylva Johansson is therefore as follows: does Ylva Johansson disagree, or does she believe that the expert authorities' opinion is correct? And if so, is she prepared to reconsider her policy?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-364	Mr President, I would like to The employment gap between native and foreign born has narrowed over several years, but it remains significant. We also have a big difference in unemployment between domestic and foreign born. That is why it is very important to remedy it. It is particularly important for me to ensure that new arrivals get to work quickly. When I took office, 27 per cent of the new arrivals came to work or study – but very few went to studies – 90 days after the establishment. In the last year it was 34 per cent, and at the beginning of this year it was 41 per cent – an increase of 10 percentage points compared with the same period last year. It goes very clearly in the right direction. The time taken to enter the labour market has in principle been halved for new arrivals. Subsidised employment is a form of employment that a collective expertise indicates is the most effective way to move on to sustained non-subsidised employment in the labour market.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-367	Mr President, I would like to The fact remains, however, that despite a decade of proven labour market policies in the form of what the Minister has just described, unemployment among foreign born is more than five times higher than that of natives. In addition, consider that this group has problems entering the labour market now that the government has gone against all the rules in how to conduct fiscal policy. What are the consequences of the next recession? What reforms, then, will address what no government has achieved so far? I think there is every reason for self-criticism in the government. The question is whether the Minister thinks so.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-369	Mr President, I would like to The government pursues a balanced fiscal policy and has taken Sweden from large deficits to large surpluses, and not least we have seen a very positive development in the labour market. It continues, and it comes not least new arrivals and foreign born in part. Mr President, I would like to I will also answer the question about start-up jobs. The Council of Finance Ministers says that it is not sure how well the new start-up jobs will work. I can understand that, because they are not yet ready. This is something that the government and the social partners are currently working on.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-371	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister Ann Linde. The World Trade Organization (WTO) is best known for trying to conclude trade agreements. But it has an equally important task to try to resolve disputes that arise precisely in the area of trade. That is why there is a body made up of seven judges. But the United States no longer participates in the appointment of new judges. One of the judges has resigned and two have ended because of the end of their term of office. That means there's four left. There must be three in each case, and the number of cases is constantly increasing. That is why I wonder what Sweden is doing. What line do we take to resolve this problem before it becomes even more urgent than it is today?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-374	Mr President, I would like to It is deeply problematic that the US is blocking the nomination process for the WTO Appellate Body. We are simply moving towards a crisis. There's supposed to be seven arbitrators, but now there's only four left. The latest news from Geneva is that the mission of one of the four arbitrators, from Mauritius, will be extended. This has been blocked by the EU in the past. This means that we are buying some time to reach agreement on the outstanding three appointments. The EU is now negotiating this with the US; it was up to the meeting of Heads of State and Government last night in Sofia, among other things. So there are many ways to try to move forward, but, as I said earlier, it is a very serious situation. I would like to refer to it as a crisis.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-376	Mr President, I would like to Of course, there are many of us who need to be helped. I would like the governments to be helped by the parliaments of the world in this case. There is a cooperation body that the Interparliamentary Union, the European Parliament and the WTO have together and where parliamentarians meet. We do not have these contradictions there. Perhaps you could try to get some help from there and involve them a little deeper in this type of problem-solving.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-377	Mr President, I would like to I think Krister Örnfjäder's proposal is good. Since you are very committed to this, Krister Eagle feather, perhaps you can take the initiative to help with this. After all, we both attended the ministerial meeting in Argentina, and we saw very closely how important it is to safeguard the multilateral system through, among other things, working dispute resolution. This is now under attack.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-379	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the government boasted that more and more new arrivals are coming to work. For example, the Minister for Labour himself wrote on Twitter that there is a marked increase in the proportion of new arrivals who come to work after their establishment, i.e. after two years. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, the actual figures are that there are 4,700 people who have moved on to work or education after the start-up phase in the last year. I requested figures from Arbetsförmedlingen and received the answer that there are 742 of them who have received a job without support. Two years ago there were about 60 000 people in the start-up assignment, and of these 742 people were given a job without support. If so, it is 1.2%. If all 4,700 people, including those who have gone to measures and training, are included, they make up 71⁄2% of the 60,000 people. It is therefore 92 1⁄2 per cent that has not benefited at all from the start-up assignment. My question to the Minister for Labour is whether this really is something to boast about on Twitter.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-382	Mr President, I would like to The view that subsidised jobs would not be real jobs or that they are a bad way of entering the labour market is a little troubling. It is not consistent with the overall research and experience. Subsidised employment is – it is rarely called into question – one of the most effective ways of leading people on to non-subsidised work, i.e. to a lasting, stable link in the labour market. What is difficult with subsidised employment is to ensure that they meet the right people, so that you do not get a large death weight cost. This was something that, for example, the start-up jobs were criticised earlier, i.e. subsidised employment by people who had otherwise received a non-subsidised job. When it comes to people who have been in Sweden for only two years and who have completed the start-up assignment, I would say that it is a wise group to invest in subsidised employment for. There are good conditions for this to lead to non-subsidised work.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-385	Mr President, I would like to Yes, but if we now take into account the subsidised employment, it concerns 4,700 people. It is 71⁄2 percent of the 60 000 who have moved on to some form of work or education. 92 1⁄2 percent hasn't gone anywhere, to anything. It will be even worse if we compare the development of domestic and foreign births: the unemployment rate among natives is 3.7 per cent and among foreign born 20 per cent. It is 6.4 per cent of the unemployed born in the country who have received a job in the last year. Of those born abroad, it is only 2%. The difference is growing and amplifying between native and foreign born.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-387	Mr President, I would like to Let me correct a few figures. We compared the beginning of the year, the first three months of this year, with the first three months of last year. Last year, 31 per cent of newcomers came to work or study – very few go to studies – and the first three months of this year it was 41 per cent. This is a significant improvement, with 33% or 10 percentage points. If we look specifically at the group of women, it is an increase of 50% in the case of people who have gone to work or study. Am I happy with this? No. Is this a development in the right direction? Yeah.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-390	Mr President, I would like to During the 2014 election campaign, Stefan Löfven promised thousands of Swedish Assyrians in Södertälje that if S won the election, the government would recognise the genocide seyfo. Recently, the Prime Minister announced that he is breaking the electoral promise and has no plans whatsoever to acknowledge the genocide. Almost all parties in this House have failed in this matter, but the Social Democrats are taking the prize. S has cynically used the descendants of genocide survivors to fish for votes and then went on the affairs of Turkey and Erdo. I think it's shameful behavior. What has the S-led government actually done for genocide-affected and persecuted minorities in the Middle East during this term of office? You'd admit seyfo, but you'd betray the election promise. You don't want to admit Is in the genocide. They do not want to give any kind of direct aid to vulnerable minorities so that they can survive in their own countries.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-393	Mr President, I would like to Seyfo was a terrible abuse of the Armenian community and other minorities during World War I. I think it affects and shakes us all. That is also the background to the fact that during the last parliamentary term, during the previous government, the Social Democracy pushed through a decision and an order here in Parliament that seyfo should be recognised as a genocide. We have been working on this. In 2015, the Government gave the Stockholm Centre for International Law and Justice a mandate to highlight relevant legal, historical and other aspects of attitudes and names in connection with historical mass assaults on a principled and general level. According to that report, government statements establishing historical facts are not entirely unproblematic. Of course, the desire to express clearly the disgust we feel can – and need – be weighed against the practice of governments speaking about historical facts.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-395	Mr President, I would like to Non-recognition is also a stand, and it is a stand for Erdo中an and his oppressive regime. That's what it is. The Swedish government had never accepted that Germany would get away with the Holocaust. It had never just been called a terrible abuse; it was a genocide. But Stefan Löfven and – I'll be honest here – Carl Bildt thinks that Turkey should get away with its genocide. Double standards aren't twice as good. This is not a worse genocide, it is as much genocide as the Holocaust. It is hypocritical that you do not dare to admit it. However, the prize is taken by the Prime Minister when he faces descendants of survivors and says that one should confess but does not.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-397	Mr President, I would like to I am sure we have not heard the last word on this matter. It is of course extremely important, and it is important to get recognition. But it is also important for a government to take into account the many different aspects of such positions.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-398	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ann Linde. What I want to talk about is Swedish companies that are world leaders in sustainability, and above all in terms of social sustainability. Within the framework of the Swedish export strategy, I want to know a little more about what the Swedish government is doing to enable Swedish companies to contribute more to the UN system. As we have such outstanding companies in these areas, I think that we could probably contribute more to procurement within the UN. We contribute very well to the UN system in a variety of ways, but precisely when it comes to companies and procurement, we are not the best in the class – which I think we should be. How does the government deal with this issue, Ann Linde?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-401	Mr President, I would like to It's not just that we're not very good. We are in 6th place when it comes to contributing to the UN but in 76th place when it comes to winning procurements, so it's pretty bad. The government is therefore investing a lot in order for us to win more procurements, and we are definitely good in a lot of areas that the UN is working on. We have carried out various visits to UN agencies. A total of 141 companies participated in 2016 – 2017, of which 100 were small or medium-sized enterprises. I led a delegation to the United Nations in New York with companies that we believe could participate in procurements, and now we have increased from 225 to 276 companies that are set up to take assignments from the United Nations.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-403	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I was going to ask you a shorter question, which might get a shorter answer. Should the Government be allowed to give a tip to Swedish companies, what should they prioritise in order to become larger and better at procurements when it comes to the UN system?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-406	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing is to learn how the UN system works. Several companies find it very complicated and bureaucratic. You have to hand over paper with signatures yourself, and you have to follow certain timeframes in a way that is not normal in normal business conditions. But if they just get over that threshold, I think that Swedish companies have an enormous amount to offer the UN system. I hope they will, because then they will win more contracts.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-409	Mr President, I would like to It is a serious war which is now going on in Afrin and which Turkey is behind. The Left Party believes that, with UN Resolution 2401 in its back, among other things, there is every reason to act forcefully against Turkey. We must prevent genocide. But I also see this a little longer in terms of how the European Union can act. The EU has, of course, expressed criticism of Turkey's offensive, but I am also thinking of the long-term peace in the Middle East and the problem of oil exploitation. IS supplies Turkey with oil, which is part of this conflict. It is incredibly important that the EU takes the lead and shows that we want to change at high speed and that we do not deal with oil in the future. This is important both to help bring peace to the Middle East and to save the world's climate. Right now large and frightening fires are raging on the tundra in Siberia, and a lot is happening around the planet that is not good.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-412	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Wallrup, for the questions! There were many questions in one, but I will start with the question of what Turkey is doing and what is happening there. We are deeply concerned about developments in Turkey, and we have told Turkish representatives in the European Union how we view these developments. It lacks respect for human rights, the principles of the rule of law and democracy. We have impressed both on Turkey and on others that their actions have implications for its relations with the EU. We have also called for the release of detained opposition politicians, journalists, writers, academics and so on in order to continue to have a relationship with the EU. There are currently no negotiations between the EU and Turkey.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-415	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am very pleased that all these aspects are being dealt with, because Turkey is acting as a real repressive regime and because it is going in the wrong direction. We see how radicalisation in Turkey has become stronger – Erdo中an started in a more peaceful way but has moved to more repression. I would like to return to the issue of sustainable development in order to create a healthier environment, so that we may avoid repression in regimes. I believe that this is connected, and I would therefore like to come back to oil and oil trade.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-418	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether I can answer precisely the question of oil trade. I'll get back to that. Part of the first question concerns developments in Syria and Afrin. We are following this very closely and in detail. There is currently a risk that this will escalate in Syria and that the terrible humanitarian situation will worsen further. We have also presented this to Turkish representatives.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-421	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. It is not a new issue; it concerns the container conflict in the port of Gothenburg. A few days ago, figures showed that the conflict may have cost the Swedish industry between 6.4 and 12.8 billion SEK in two years. At the same time, another study showed that companies in the fashion industry have had up to 70 percent higher costs due to the conflict. More than a year ago, Ylva Johansson appointed an investigation to review conflict law. We Moderates have often criticised the government for taking too long, and yesterday we were struck by the news that this investigation will take even longer. This is regrettable. My question to the Minister for Labour is what the reasons for this are. There is an urgent need to find a solution. Is this not a priority for the government?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-425	Mr President, I would like to We have not had working peace in the port of Gothenburg for over 40 years, and this is of course very serious. What we have seen in recent years are far-reaching economic consequences. This applies, of course, to the port, but perhaps even more so to Swedish industry and Swedish trade, which is completely dependent on the hub of the port of Gothenburg. There is also no alternative transport route in Sweden. Instead, it is forced to bring the cargo on a truck down to the port of Rotterdam, which takes longer and increases costs. Therefore, I take the situation extremely seriously that, in my opinion, the Swedish model is not working satisfactorily in the port of Gothenburg. That's also why I've set up the so-called Battle Action Investigation. The report will be completed by 31 May. This timetable remains valid.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-427	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This was not really what came out in the news report yesterday. As I said, I have raised this issue a few times in this House and elsewhere as well. In February, Ylva Johansson's State Secretary said that there was an opening for a faster process. Now I understand that the timetable is holding. I have another question for the Minister. In the past, it has been said that legislation is needed in this area – does the Minister stand by it?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-430	Mr President, I would like to As far as the timetable is concerned, I would like to say that the investigation should be completed by 31 May. It is not an amendment to these directives. We had set aside a time when the investigation would submit its report to me which was not suitable for the investigation, but we have found a new time for the actual handover. This has unfortunately been withdrawn in June because of hard work calendars, national days and other things. However, there is no formal delay in the work, even if the actual handover is a few days later than originally planned.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-432	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Unemployment in Sweden continues to decrease, which is a positive thing. Employment is record high and youth unemployment is the lowest in many years. At the same time, we see in certain sectors and sectors that it can be difficult to cope with staff supply. In March, the Social Democratic-led government decided to reactivate military service and basic education. The need for personnel in the armed forces cannot be guaranteed on a voluntary basis alone. It is of the utmost importance that the Swedish Armed Forces are able to recruit personnel with the right experience and the necessary skills, not least in view of the security policy situation. My question to the Minister for Defence is as follows: How does the Minister for Defence view the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to meet their recruitment needs in the future?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-437	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Activation of military service has many dimensions. On the one hand, it is about being able to create full and trained units, and on the other hand it is about units that can be requested in connection with a possible crisis situation, increased preparedness or war. A crucial disadvantage of the professional system is that it does not meet these fairly obvious objectives. By introducing universal military service, you can also expose the various professions that exist within the Swedish Armed Forces to these young people. It can give a more multifaceted picture of all the opportunities the Swedish Armed Forces have to offer. It's not just a soldier's profession. There are technicians, signal operators, people who work with intelligence issues, with nursing tasks and with educational tasks – a wide range of tasks. I believe that this whole spectrum can make it easier to get people interested in positions within the Armed Forces, and military service can be a basis for this.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-440	Mr President, I would like to Quality in higher education is important for both education and Swedish competitiveness, but also for the individual student, who is often indebted to studying. In order to improve quality, the alliance government invested heavily. For example, appropriations for training places in the hum-sam area were increased by 60 per cent. But we also introduced a new quality assurance system, which unfortunately showed that one in four educations was not up to the mark. Two years ago, the Riksdag decided to introduce a new quality assurance system on 1 June 2016. However, this has not yet been used in a strong position, but has only been run on a trial basis. I would therefore like to ask Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson when students will be able to compare educational qualities at different universities and whether the government intends to work also to ensure that the experiences of former students, so-called alumni, will be taken into account in this type of evaluations.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-444	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Betty Malmberg, for your question! Unfortunately, the quality assurance system that you introduced during your reign did not measure up. Sweden was thrown out of the joint network for quality assurance of higher education in Europe, called ENQA, because it was not a comprehensive quality assurance system. It measured too little, that's all. We have now corrected this and introduced one that is more comprehensive. It is also about higher education institutions themselves having a great responsibility for quality assurance in their education, while UKÄ is doing this work. It is possible to follow the quality work already today through Högskolekollen, which UKÄ has to report the quality assurance work they do, but also what the higher education institutions report to UKÄ. This is very important to ensure quality, not only in individual measurements but all the time.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-449	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for European Affairs and Trade Ann Linde. This week the Government has visited the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, which unfortunately appears to be a border also between the EU and the United Kingdom. This will be a crux of the future agreement that the European Union and the United Kingdom will conclude when, unfortunately, the United Kingdom leaves our Union. Brexit is unfortunate for Sweden, unfortunate for the Union and unfortunate for the United Kingdom. 65 million customers leave the EU's internal market, 100 000 Swedes who currently live in the UK get an address outside the EU and Sweden loses a close ally. That is why it is so important that we have an agreement in place, in time as well. My question to the Government is therefore: how is work progressing on the Northern Ireland-Ireland border issue, which is so important for the conclusion of the agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union?
i-HqFMsgTqWgTQYdRbvCh7uQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, David Lindvall, for the question! Unfortunately, I have nothing positive to say. We had an EU ministerial meeting on Monday, and I have never heard the EU's chief negotiator Michel Barnier as pessimistic as he was at the time. It is above all the divorce agreement, a border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, that you do not know how to deal with. I visited it myself on Tuesday and Wednesday and saw how extremely problematic it is going to be, for over 220 border crossings are in a distance of 500 km. Of course, the UK says they want electronic controls, but nobody knows how to do that. For example, if you choose to set up cameras, there is a risk that they will be destroyed immediately. That's why they have to be taken care of by a police officer, and then the police might be attacked and have to be taken care of by a military. This puts you in the same situation as the previous 3,600 dead in the war between Northern Ireland and Ireland.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-454	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ylva Johansson. We can see how the social democrats related to the trade union LO engage in a systematic purge of elected representatives who are not active socialists. The latest example was that of Swedish Radio Ekot yesterday. A Christian Democrat politician has been kicked out as a vote of confidence. This means that freedom of opinion and human rights to be in associations are not so important to the close to LO of the Social Democrats. During the spring, I and the Government have debated the important issue of the link between trade unions and regional safety representatives and the risks that this entails, not least, for non-socialists. Yesterday we were also able to take note of the news that trade unions are unable to manage the unemployment fund neutrally in relation to the union members.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-459	Mr President, I would like to We have repeatedly debated Lars Beckman's abhorrence for the Landsorganisation in particular and trade union organisation in general. Of course, who is to be assigned and elected to positions of trust in a trade union organisation is the trade union organisation itself in charge. It is an important fundamental right in the freedom of association that everyone chooses which association they want to be in. Those who are members of that association choose elected representatives and who will represent them in different contexts. The Regional Safety Officers have a very important task and carry out the task well. They also report their activities, and they have recently received increased resources in connection with the work against sexual harassment.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-463	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask my question to Ylva Johansson. Unemployment is falling and employment in Sweden is the highest ever measured across the EU. But we still have two problems. We still have too many unemployed, and we also have a shortage of labour. It is about 100 000 jobs that employers find it difficult to find people to do. One common denominator for the unemployed and the jobs that are not filled is education. The unemployed who do not have comprehensive school or upper secondary school education find it very difficult to get a job. And for those professions where there is a shortage of labour, some form of training is required. It doesn't have to be such a long education. It can be a rather short education, not least vocational training. But education is required. Is it possible to link labour shortages and unemployment or in some other way ensure that we solve these problems?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-467	Mr President, I would like to Hillevi Larsson puts his finger on both the two major challenges and on the solution. We have a very large labour shortage in a wide range of occupations, and we have too high unemployment. In this situation, of course, it is important not to do new find-out jobs but instead to ensure that those who are unemployed can eventually take the job vacancies where we have a great need for labour. One such area is welfare, especially care for the elderly. Therefore, the government invests in extra services, which allow you to work up to two years, train in Swedish and test whether you fit in the business. If it turns out that working in care for the elderly is a good idea, we now offer further training to help with care, so that you can work in one of the important professions where more employees will be needed both now and even more in the future.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-469	Mr President, I would like to It is almost an event that looks like an idea that it is extra services that I would like to ask a question about to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. We have an absolutely fantastic labour market situation. We have a boom that is extremely strong, and we should be grateful for that. However, what we can be sure of is that after a boom there will be a recession; it is only a question of when. This depends very much on the state of the labour market in terms of the measures and actions it chooses to take and do. There the government has chosen to invest heavily in extra services. We should have landed in another option, but that is not what I am going to ask the question about. When we took over in 2006, we cleaned up the systems quite properly to make clear what was in labour market measures and who had jobs in the regular labour market. It was about making clear how the statistics looked and what measures we needed to take. It is now clear that, unlike other labour market policies, extra services are regarded as real jobs, which means that the statistics of the Public Employment Service are quite well-defined, to put it mildly. Is it supposed to be like that?
i-72c2f17eb706e055-475	Mr President, I would like to I feel very hesitant about what Annika Qarlsson is raising. When you have a subsidised employment, you are usually judged to be in a measure and thus remain at Arbetsförmedlingen. It is important to remember that it is Statistics Sweden that is responsible for the unemployment statistics when conducting their AKU surveys. It is interview surveys where the individual is asked whether or not to work the current survey week. You can never be absolutely sure how the individual makes the assessment of his or her work in the surveys. The Employment Service's statistics are not statistics on unemployment, but rather statistics on the Employment Service's activities. There you can follow both those who are openly unemployed and those who are in different types of measures.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-478	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are taking the first step towards a necessary restructuring of the Swedish healthcare system when deciding on guiding principles in this particular healthcare sector. We begin the journey from a hospital-heavy care to a reinforced first-line care. It is a care that should be given mainly close to people. It can be at health centres, but it can also be about infirm cabins, mobile teams or preferably about care in patients' homes – and perhaps even digitally. It is important to point out that the proposal recognises that if, for reasons of efficiency and quality, care can be concentrated in a few places. It is worth reminding, as Bengt Eliasson previously did, that we have made decisions about the national highly specialised care. Bengt Eliasson mentioned this in the previous debate on the previous report. We can be proud of this. What rarely happens in life but requires special and specialized efforts, most people can think of travelling to. But what happens more often, what affects most of us and what requires continuity and coordination should be organised close to the people. It also usually happens with a high level of involvement of patients. Close care is often good care. There are several reasons for organising care close to patients and people. It is probably easier to provide equal care if we organize the close people. We can achieve higher quality results, not least in terms of continuity around patients. Of course, it is also more effective to meet people earlier and that they go to primary care or get care close than that it should be done in hospitals. Hopefully we will have a transfer of the debate on health care in Sweden so that it deals with these issues instead of what has been going on in the past, where hospital care is discussed. Mr President, I would like to Much can and should be done close to patients and based on their needs and not on health care needs, as is often the case today. Above all, this is about groups that need a lot of effort. This is often the case for actions to be undertaken from several sources and in various ways comprehensively. It is often about the elderly multisickness but also about the chronicles who need great continuity. It can also be about mental illness and meeting it in different ways, meeting it early and addressing simpler and moderate conditions. It is particularly important to work preventively and health-promoting so that people do not have to get sick. There has been much talk of accessibility and care queues earlier here today, and we may continue to do so. Probably we will never be able to build up certain care queues and waiting times if we do not become better at preventing ill health and preventing disease. It should be a bigger task for health care, but also in other parts of society. Mr President, I would like to Today's decision is also about a reinforced health guarantee. It is important for confidence in health care, of course, but also to prevent much of suffering and disease. It is important that people are in contact with the healthcare system quickly. We know from several studies that people feel safer if they come in quick telephone contact or other contact with the care. Today's decision is about a proposal that the first medical assessment can be made on the basis of the patient's needs and by qualified staff other than a doctor. And it can be made not only professional neutral, but also technologically neutral, with digital technology. This brings many benefits to patients; it goes without saying. For example, if you are looking for different pain conditions, it can often be good that the first assessment is made by a qualified physiotherapist who knows how to get into treatment quickly and start his training at an early stage. Or why not an experienced district nurse who is used to assessing infections or other conditions in the patients? Given that many patients seeking primary care do so for psychosocial reasons, I think it can be a great advantage that the first assessment can be made by a curator or psychologist. From the outset, they can take a call or help the patient get on the right track. Of course, the staff should also be able to communicate quickly with a doctor when they see that it is needed. That, of course, is part of their competence. As a result, it relieves the doctor, who can devote himself to the patients who need his or her response. The reform creates the conditions for developing and organising a better working environment for healthcare professionals, thereby creating more attractive workplaces and getting more people to go to primary care – or perhaps we should talk about the close care – and raising the status there. It is satisfactory to note that the Government has committed SEK 1 billion in the 2018 budget proposal for the reform to begin. Mr President, I would like to There is no contradiction in the reform with future legislation to offer a permanent medical contact with coordination responsibilities. This is a proposal that we Social Democrats support. Continuity and coordination are important values for good care with the patient's needs at the heart. We want to work for this to be legislated in the next parliamentary term. Mr President, I would like to The basis of the proposal is the partial report Good and close care from Anna Nergårdh's a little larger investigation, which includes more reforms to make it a good and close care. The next interim report is expected in a few weeks' time. There, a nationally designed assignment for primary care will be reported. This should be known to the opposition, which nevertheless persists with an announcement on the matter. For us Social Democrats, it might perhaps be justified to support this in order to prevent us from being accused of not wanting what is good and right, as is now quite often the case in this House. However, using the instrument of announcement on this impertinence eventually makes it a watered-down and unwitting instrument, and in this case we feel inclined to mark. Admissibility to our reservation under item 4, reservation 8. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-498	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that, of course, we support all moderate reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 13. Swedish healthcare has both problems and challenges. We know that we have one of the world's best medical services, but there are quite a few problems and challenges. The most acute problem is about patients' lack of access to the right care at the right time and at the right level of care. Sweden has seen a situation in recent years with doubled care queues. Today we are in the absolutely bottom league of Europe. We have Europe's longest waiting times together with Ireland and the United Kingdom. Continuity and accessibility are one of the major challenges. For precisely the patient groups that my political colleagues have talked about, it is our old, multisick chronicles who often fall between the chairs and who have the greatest need for a care in the future that also sees and meets their needs in a better way. Swedish care is far too hospital-heavy, and close care and primary care are not well-developed enough. In addition, the regional differences between the county councils or regions that invest most and least in primary care are very large. It distinguishes up to 45 per cent between the region or county council that invests the most compared to the one that invests the least. There is a great need for a nationally designed assignment in the area of primary care. I choose to see it as something positive that we in this House, which expresses the will of the people, so clearly indicate that we want to see a national primary care mission. I am pleased that we are to see this. We're waiting for it. If it comes, it's welcome by the Alliance. Mr President, I would like to The proposals for a strengthened healthcare guarantee are fundamentally in line with a modern way of looking at how healthcare has developed its working methods and methods. The health guarantee regarding first visits to primary care should be professional neutral. Nor is it contrary to our political line that all patients who want to be right should also in the practical everyday life to a fixed health contact in the form of doctors and healthcare teams starting with the close care. Who the patient may meet today is determined by the first contact with the care. We believe that the biggest problem is the growing healthcare queues and the inability to ensure that patients' current statutory health guarantee is complied with. The fact that you as a patient have the right to a permanent contact with a doctor is already provided for by law in both the Health Care Act and the Patient Act introduced by the Alliance Government. It is implementation and compliance that are not up to the mark. Mr President, I would like to In just three years the care queues in Sweden have doubled. A key explanation for this negative development with doubled care queues is that the S-led government has abolished queue billions. For a long time, the Social Democrats have been strongly opposed to performance-based methodological systems that provide clear incentives and reward shorter waiting periods. We believe in putting focus and prioritising the shortening of the doubled care queues. This starts with systematic methodological work that is result-oriented. In addition, open and transparent, which easily and clearly explains to all patients, relatives and healthcare professionals what legal rights patients have. Care queues should be removed as a matter of urgency. That work must begin now. Patients should not have to sit in the waiting room.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-511	Mr President, I would like to We Swedish Democrats share this proposal's assessment that all actors in health care should strive in the same direction in the restructuring of health care. We also believe that the transfer should take place from today's hospital-heavy health care to an enhanced first-line health care. The foundation must be a good and close care that is clearly based on the patient's needs. It should be borne in mind that Swedish health care is hospitalized, and primary care is only a minor part of the healthcare system. We therefore believe that health care structures need to be changed in order to achieve both increased quality and better accessibility and more efficient use of resources. Primary care has a very important role to play in a more equal and efficient healthcare, and that role will become increasingly important in the future. However, in order for primary care to become this clear base for Swedish healthcare as it is intended to be, it needs, of course, to be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to However, the Swedish Democrats share the assessment from the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis that the proposal in the bill risks leading to increased geographical inequality and increased differences between groups. Geographical inequality may increase as a result of the fact that the skills that healthcare can offer in practice vary across the country. In addition, there is a risk that access to a certain skill, rather than the need, will guide whom the patient may meet. There is also an obvious risk of increased differences between different groups because patients who can better express themselves and describe their needs may be allowed to see a doctor. Since visits to doctors are an important quality marker, we believe that the proposal leads to a deterioration in the offer of value and, in the long term, a erosion of confidence in primary care – both in the population and in the profession. If this results in both patients and staff seeking other care then the dynamic effect of the proposal is that the role of primary care in the healthcare system is weakened rather than strengthened. We also share the concerns expressed by SBU and Vårdanalys that the initial medical assessment of new patients seeking primary care with diffuse symptoms is one of the most challenging tasks for a doctor. This puts patient safety at risk if this task is spent on other professions. In this way, we reject the part of the bill that the government chooses to call a strengthened health guarantee in primary care. We agree with reservation 3 which provides a more stringent guarantee of care, giving patients the right to a doctor's visit within three days. We also support reservation 1. I support reservations 3 and 1.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-525	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The Red-Green feminist government works systematically and purposefully for a long-term sustainable welfare policy. Healthcare is an important part of everyone's well-being. How it is managed will therefore be crucial for the success of the healthcare sector in its mission. During debates such as this, we often hear from the speaker's chair that we have major problems with queues and skills shortages. Then it may be important to remember that one of the great reasons for that is the eight years of alliance rule. In those years, the number of people employed in welfare fell, and this applies to both the publicly organised and the privately organised public money. It sank from 134 to 128 persons per thousand inhabitants. It's a bill of six jobs a thousand. The current government has been able to restore this in just four years, and we have a little more. Now 135 people are employed per thousand. It should be borne in mind that the population in these four years has increased quite sharply. The alliance years were thus a greater blow to welfare than the 1990s budget adjustment. At that time, they lost five jobs per thousand inhabitants in the country. During the alliance years, sex was lost. I think you should remember that. You can't just count money, you have to think about what the money is for. For six years, both inflation and wage increases draining the crowns reduce the number of hours you can buy for them. This report deals with a government proposal based on the first interim report of the study Coordinated development for good and close care. In addition, 15 claims are dealt with in accompanying motions and 22 claims from older sports. First of all, I must point out, as all debaters usually do in debates on health care, so that it is not misunderstood, that we in the Green Party are of course well aware that the medical results in Swedish health care are of very high quality. Swedish healthcare is one of the best in the world, and in the EU only Luxembourg has more doctors per capita than we have in Sweden. That doesn't mean we can't get any better. We are well aware that we have great and difficult challenges ahead of us. We have very large retirements among healthcare professionals over the next ten years, and it is quite difficult to attract young people to choose the healthcare profession. The demography, mentioned in the previous debate, is also not to our advantage with many in the older years and few in the younger ones. However, we are not alone in the problem. In principle, all welfare countries have the same problem, although Sweden is at the forefront of development, if I have understood it correctly. Although care is of a high quality, we have excessively long waiting times for those who seek treatment for many of the health problems that exist. In other words, the health sector needs to be renewed and changed if we are to manage to continue to have perhaps the best care in the world in the future. The Government therefore makes the assessment that the Swedish healthcare system needs to undergo a fundamental structural change. As some previous speakers have said, the present proposal is only one step in a longer process of change. It proposes, among other things, how health care should be organised so that more of the care given can be given closer to the population. In practice, this means that some of what is currently taking place in hospitals is transferred to a developed primary care with greater competence. The Government also points out that geographical concentration of certain activities may be justified for reasons of quality and safety. Both broad care and specialised care therefore need to be structured. The proposal also proposes a change in the guarantee of primary care. It aims to speed up patients' access to the right treatment in the system and to make better use of the doctor's time. The solution is that the healthcare guarantee is not linked to a doctor's contact but instead to a contact with a relevant licensed person within the healthcare system. Of course, it can be a doctor, but it can also be other legitimate professions in health care. Although the report contains 16 reservations, I nevertheless interpret them as a broad idea of the direction in which health care should go. It is a reshuffle that will take a long time, many years, and it is necessary that there be a common view on the direction in which the change should go. In Sweden we have a time ahead of us that I think will mean at worst quite weak governments and that they will sometimes change. Then a broad consensus is even more important. I do not want to go into polemics with any of the proposals put forward by the opposition. It is unnecessary when you have a fundamentally broad consensus. I am therefore content to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the opposition obviously has to supplement all the reports with announcements, even if it is sometimes, as in this case, ridiculous. The announcement is, of course, about something that comes to Parliament in just a few weeks' time, as the opposition is well aware. I think, and have said this in this House before, that the instrument of announcement should be used with some respect and in cases where what is required is something new, not something that has already been announced. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to express my support for Amendment No 8 and the other proposal in the report and to reject the other reservations.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-538	Mr President, I would like to Swedish primary care has very big problems. In other comparable countries, up 90 - 95 percent, perhaps 98 percent, of the entire population have a permanent medical contact in primary care. Today this has fallen, and only 42% of the Swedish population have a permanent medical contact in primary care. Today, 2,700 doctors are missing in primary care. It is kept up with the help of 1,500 relay doctors, who are spinning around. There will be salary costs of perhaps 200 000 SEK per month, which is completely unreasonable. Is it somewhere it is very important that we have continuity in health care, it is precisely in primary care. There, continuity is perhaps at its worst today. The Agency for Health Analysis has repeatedly pointed this out. It even says that the figures we have on accessibility are probably false. When you report that 90 per cent receive this guarantee – see a doctor within seven days – the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis says that this is not true. This is because far too many patients contact the health centre, and when you hear that there are waiting times for many weeks to get an appointment with your own doctor, you choose instead to go to the emergency department, use the Kry app or something else. We have a huge problem with accessibility in Swedish primary care. Instead of tackling and remedying the basic problem of a large shortage of general practitioners and 1 500 staffet doctors in one of the world's most densely populated countries, the government chooses to remove the right to see doctors within seven days. This is a very unfortunate decision for Swedish primary care. I can only agree with the Agency for Health Analysis in its very sharp criticism of the proposal. The government has proposed to introduce a new limit of three days in which to get an assessment of someone else, but at the same time remove the seven-day right that exists today. The Agency for Health Analysis says that this will have severe consequences for primary care. Firstly, it will increase the geographical fragmentation of Swedish healthcare. This will lead to a deterioration in health care in the interior of Norrland in particular. We know that the health care system in the sparse parts of Sweden today is supported by staffet physicians. There you organize the health care system so that you can manage without a doctor. In a county council in the north there was a conference at the beginning of the week where they discussed the bill, which then seemed to be going through. No less than two heads of operations stated that with the change in law that the Riksdag is about to decide on, they no longer need to employ as many staffet doctors. They can then have primary care with fewer doctors. In one of the countries with the least number of doctors in primary care, this possibility is seen. This will increase the geographical fragmentation, which is deeply unfortunate. Secondly, it will increase the gap and divide between the people who have an education, have the Swedish language and have a job and those who live in exclusion. We know that well - educated people know exactly what words to use to get that time with a doctor they want. It is not easy to stop by the nurse on the phone all the time when you want an appointment with a doctor. But we know that people who have a socio-economic status know exactly what things to say to get that time with the doctor. The Agency for Care Analysis is very clear that the decision that the Riksdag is about to take will increase the socio-economic split of Swedish primary care. It will be more difficult for those who are in a weak position to have access to medical periods. The third thing the Agency for Health Care Analysis says is perhaps at least as serious. It is that it will limit the availability of doctors in Swedish primary care. Sweden is currently one of the countries with the least number of medical visits to primary care per capita. There is only one country in the OECD area that is lower than we are. In that country, the Riksdag now wants to go in and make law and say that even here doctors are not needed. The seven-day limit should be removed. We know that it is a problem to get doctors to apply for primary care precisely because they have become a figure on an assembly line. They are not responsible for their patients. Now we are going to make a decision that will reduce the need for doctors in primary care. That, Mr President, is going the wrong way. Finally, the Swedish Agency for Health Analysis also points out that the decision will further impair the population's confidence in Swedish primary care. In a situation where you know that you do not even have the right to demand to see a doctor within seven days, you will simply turn in the other direction. People aren't stupid. Do I know that when I call the health centre and say that I want an appointment with my doctor then that right is denied depending on the change of law, what I do then? Well, then I'll go to the emergency room at the hospital and sit there in the waiting room. I know I'm going to sit in the waiting room of the emergency hospital, and I'm finally going to see a doctor. Or you pick up your cell phone, and in a few minutes you get in touch with a doctor via the Kry app. Or you can get a private health insurance from your employer or pay for it yourself. This will impair public confidence in Swedish primary care. Mr President, I would like to It is a very unfortunate decision in view of the major problems we face. We would actually have to do exactly the opposite. We would, of course, have done as the National Board of Health and Welfare has proposed and on which there has also been a discussion in SKL. Feel free to strengthen the health guarantee by introducing a new three-day limit for an assessment from other qualified staff. But for God's sake, don't take away the right for the patient to see a doctor within seven days. It will impair Swedish primary care and not improve it. Mr President, I would like to I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 2.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-554	Mr President, I would like to This day, we've been discussing health care. It's always just as interesting. In view of what Anders W Jonsson said, I would like to say that there may be others that you need to meet when you come to a health centre. It can be a therapist, a psychologist or someone else if you feel mentally ill. This is generally a good proposal that the government has made. There are some beauty spots, and I'm going to go into them. We have already talked about equal health and that it should be superior in health care. The inequality we are actually seeing is totally unacceptable. It doesn't just have to be about being able to go to a doctor right away. It can also be about privatisation. If you live in Tensta or in Rinkeby, it is very difficult to get in touch with a health centre in Stockholm at all, unlike if you live on Kungsholmen or Östermalm. It's also an interesting difference you could dive into. There are both regional and socio-economic class differences. The differences in health we see are about which care you receive, I think it looks like. The proposal proposes that the county council organise health care activities so that care is given close to the population. That's very good. It'll be a turn. It is mentioned that it should be justified for reasons of quality or efficiency. Behind the word'reasons of efficiency', a great deal can be contained, such as cuts. The Left Party has agreed to centralise special specialist care in specific cases if quality is guaranteed. But we also want to safeguard the patient perspective. It is extremely important that the requirement for efficiency mentioned refers not only to organisation and the county council's economic balances, but also to people's right to accessible care and patient safety. Otherwise, we won't be very credible. Then we are seen as if we are some who sit in our ivory towers and do not care about the care in Burträsk or Bromölla. When reorganising care, one of the most important issues should be what is most effective for patients. In Sollefteå there has been a very one-eyed reorganization in recent years. As a result, the patient's experience of safety has completely disappeared. It is a development of care that we in the Left Party oppose and actively oppose. The guiding principles for the organisation of healthcare should state that, in addition to quality reasons and efficiency reasons, patient safety should be the focus of centralisation of healthcare geographically. I therefore highlight reservation number 2. We've been talking about digital care. It's amazing when it works. But the digital system can become something other than what it is now. Now there's a lot of Dr. Cash. We've talked about the online doctors before. It's a good market if you're looking for a higher profit. Internet-based care should be used as a complement and strengthen existing care. We have asked Annika Strandhäll and asked the government how it intends to deal with the problems that may arise as a result of a commercial digital care. It may be increased antibiotic medicinal product. Now this from the Liberals sounded like everything was rosy. It's about how you plan to follow up the digital online doctors and look at what they should do and not do. Now we need to look into it, and we think that's a good thing. When healthcare is not sufficiently accessible to people, the market for commercial online doctors grows. There has been an investigation, as I mentioned before. You can look at who calls Dr. Cash. There are surprisingly many in the inner city. There it is already run by health centres, unlike in the outer parts here in Stockholm. The Left Party wants society to take responsibility for the equality of health care. The county councils should therefore be responsible for the infrastructure of digital healthcare contacts. You can look at the county council in Västerbotten. Through Storuman's health centre, it has built up a digital system that benefits the population. It would be reasonable for it to look so little anywhere in the country. The purpose of digital care should be to bring care closer to patients. I support the reservations we have, but for the sake of time, I am highlighting No. 9. I ask for it to be approved and for everything else to be rejected.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-568	Mr President, I would like to I have tremendous respect for the involvement of the Left Party in reducing social divides. I think that Karin Rågsjö, just like me, is very worried that the health gaps are increasing in Sweden. In addition, gaps in access to health care are increasing. People who are less well-off and who do not have the Swedish language have much more difficulty getting access to healthcare. It has been reported by the Swedish Cancer Society, and it has also been shown by cardiologists in the heart that the gaps are now increasing. As one of its four main arguments, the Agency for Care Analysis highlights why the seven-day limit should not be removed. It says: Don't do that, because it will increase the gaps in Swedish primary care. I am surprised, then, that the Left Party is still in favour of this proposal. The mechanism behind it will make it more difficult is that every time you set up an obstacle to the patient's right to see their doctor, it is the highly educated and the well-informed who know what words to use and can be contentious to the nurse on the phone who thus makes their way. We know very well from international research that the way to reduce the gaps in healthcare is to increase accessibility and ensure that the thresholds for patients to reach their doctor are lowered. In this proposal, we are doing exactly the opposite. I'm surprised. My question to Karin Rågsjö is: what have you done for the distribution policy analysis of the proposal in a situation where our expert authority is so clear that if we decide on this, it will increase the gaps? That should not be the policy of the Left Party, Mr President.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-574	Mr President, I would like to There are many entrances, Anders, when it comes to equality and inequality. Maybe it's not just if you get to see the doctor first to decide the equality. Equality can also mean that there is a health centre at all, with different professions. I think you're dissing everyone else who works in health care. Of course, if you have a nurse who makes a selection and thinks you are seriously ill, you will end up with a doctor. If you're mentally ill, you might end up with a counselor. I wonder why you, Anders, have not thought about equality when it comes to profits in welfare and, for example, freedom of establishment? Why haven't you thought of it as a big deal? Why, for example, should there be so few health centres in socially and economically vulnerable areas? Why do you shut down the health centre in Tensta while you have 13 health centres at Östermalm? Such questions are equality for me. Even the Medical Association is on board with this proposal, if I'm not out of my league. I see you're shaking your head now. You're gonna have to correct me if I'm wrong. I don't think the doctor is always the one you're supposed to see in the first place. When I call my health center, which works great, I'll talk to a nurse. Then she decides who I'm going to see. It's not that advanced. But in other places it is not, and this is something you have to follow up. It is a lot about how to invest in healthcare professionals and whether there should be a healthcare professional in Sollefteå and so on. It is also important to look at centralisation. What are we going to do, and how are we going to centralize care? It must not be like in the interior of Norrland, where care is defoliated. On this we are quite in agreement, you and I – perhaps.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-580	Mr President, I would like to My question is that we have now received a legislative proposal at Parliament's table, in which the expert authority, the Agency for Health Analysis, is very clear: if you vote this through, it will increase the geographical cleavage in that primary care risks becoming even more medical gleams in the interior of Norrland. I know that the Left Party may not have a great deal of commitment to the hinterland of Norrland and for the whole of Sweden to live. But the other part of the criticism from the Swedish Agency for Health Analysis should be taken on board by the Left Party. It is precisely a question of the fact that, as far as medical visits are concerned, there is already an unequal distribution. Higher social groups have a much greater chance of getting medical visits than people born abroad, who are not educated or who are unemployed. That's how we know it's today. The Agency for Health Analysis says that this injustice will be reinforced with this proposal. The cleavage is increasing, and the socio-economic gap is increasing as we get a division of Swedish healthcare where social groups 1 and 2 get the times with doctors. They know exactly what the demands are to be to get into the doctor's office. But others, perhaps foreign-born, unemployed and people with lower education, do not have these key words. They don't know what demands to make to get in. That is why I am so surprised that the Left Party, which has an ambition to reduce the gaps in society, is still prepared to vote through the bill despite the fact that the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis is fully linking the red warning light and saying: If Parliament lets the bill through, the gaps in Swedish healthcare will increase further. The rich get a sour cream for the doctor's visit to primary care, while those who are already having a tough time get harder.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-586	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear you, Anders, talk about equality and inequality. You don't do that very often, I have to say. As far as the Left Party's interest in the hinterland of Norrland is concerned, I can say that if it is somewhere we have been and visited, it is precisely these regions. We have met people there in different ways, and that is precisely why we have organized ourselves in relation to Sollefteå. I do not think that equality in health care depends on seeing a doctor. I think equality is about so much else. Of course you should see a doctor if you want and if you need to. That's the case, and you get it too, don't you think? But then there's so much else. It is a matter of staffing at all. Nurses and nurses must be in place. This is not the case today, and it is because far too long too little effort has been made on staff. We have gone in and strengthened the care with 2 billion that we have negotiated so that there will be staff in place. I don't think equality and inequality are about lack of doctors. Look at the cancer care! It is about a lack of seeing people who do not have fat wallets and who have a short education. This is what it is all about. Maybe we could start working on that. But I don't think that if you don't see a doctor pronto, it'll be very unequal. Inequality is about class divides, economic divides and other things. We have worked far too little on that.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-593	Madam President, I would like The point of speech is like coming only after lunch at a large conference and talking to the paltcoma. At the outset, I would like to say from the Liberals that, of course, we support all our reservations and the collective reservations of the Alliance, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 12 under paragraph 6 and reservation 13 under paragraph 7. Madam President, I would like Swedish healthcare is of good quality in international comparisons – we have debated this earlier today – and is at the top of the list in terms of medical results. We have four times more doctors than in the 1970s and more well-trained nurses than ever before, but unfortunately they are not all on duty in the places where they are needed. This means, of course, that there is a large, accumulated criticism from these two groups regarding our way of organising healthcare in Sweden and the public way of organising a workplace. However, service providers have good results: Quality of care and patient safety are among the highest in the world. Medical and technical advances allow many to go home on the day they were operated on instead of staying in hospital for several days. Today, medicines and day care are being solved instead of surgical intervention. However, Madam President, there are significant challenges for today's health care in terms of achieving equivalence and long-term funding. Some have already been mentioned: an ageing population, new and effective but very costly treatments and the need for major investments in medical technology development. This means that it can be problematic for regions and county councils to fully fund health care. The difficulties are particularly evident in the smaller county councils and regions, where the population and the tax base are reduced. Jämtland Härjedalen is one such example. In fact, there is a lot of trouble out there and loans are currently being financed on a day-to-day basis. Sometimes the lack of equivalence in the country is less due to different conditions and resources and more to different county councils and regions making slightly different priorities. This becomes very clear when you look at it in the light of the color of the political leaders in different regions. Nevertheless, certain differences in equivalence may be difficult to justify. On which side of a county border you live cannot reasonably determine how good care you receive. National governance does not always have the impact that the government and parliament want to show. Seen from the county councils – I myself have been an active county council politician for 12 years – government governance sometimes goes just across local priorities and needs and means an unwanted double command, which controls completely wrong. Madam President, I would like This also creates a democracy problem. Who will vote away if they are dissatisfied with the health care they receive – the government or the local county council or regional majority? These are things we need to take care of. We Liberals are, of course, behind an asymmetrical approach in Sweden. Sweden can be controlled in different ways in these parts, but it also requires dexterity in the national control systems we have. That is what is missing, and it is becoming clear in today's debate. Madam President, I would like The waiting times in care were significantly shortened during the time of the alliance government. The National Care Guarantee and the performance-based queue billions contributed strongly to the positive development. Since the red-green government has now abolished queue billions, we see that waiting times have been long. At the same time, the embodiment had great flaws. The reverse of being an effective instrument for achieving the objectives set was the fact that other urgent tasks, which were not measured, were excluded. There were loopholes that needed to be plugged. This is what a modern queue billion will do. There is, in theory, a broad political consensus in this House on the need to extend the health care of the first line. The work is going on, but it's going too slow. Although everyone agrees that, in the long run, it will be more resource efficient for a greater proportion of healthcare resources to go to primary care, the change itself is very difficult and the incentives are far too weak. This is where the government is failing today with the proposals on the table of Parliament. This is precisely where the conversion would need a push forward, not being held back. A number of other proposals need to be made instead. We Liberals demand that all patients should be given the opportunity to list themselves with a named doctor at their health centre. Care should be moved closer to people, not further away. Each doctor should be responsible for their patients and coordinate the other care they may need. This improves continuity for patients and makes care more effective. The example is not least, as mentioned earlier in the debate, the Norwegian and Danish fasting models, where each doctor has about 1,200 patients – about half of what a Swedish doctor has. This is part of why doctors and nurses want to work with other things than in health care, where they are needed. The Health Act needs to be clarified so that this also applies in Sweden. In a first stage, older people are given priority with the greatest care needs for their own, fixed medical contact, but of course everyone in Sweden's elongated country should be included in this. Having a fixed doctor's contact – a named doctor you have chosen, with a ceiling for the number of patients, at the health centre you have chosen – should be a matter of course in Swedish health care.
i-RYTM8DgS46MUjTHyFZfQY7	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Swedish delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Government's letter on the activities of the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee in 2017. I would like to begin by thanking my predecessor in his post as vice-chairman of the Swedish delegation: Tobias Billström. He was the leader of the Moderate Group's work during 2017. In the EPP Group too, Tobias Billström was a key figure, whose words were highly valued, especially in the turbulent times when corruption charges were directed against high-ranking EPP members, such as the now outgoing President of the Parliamentary Assembly. At the initiative of Sweden, the Speakers of the countries belonging to the NB8, the Nordic-Baltic delegation, signed a letter calling for an independent and transparent investigation of the serious corruption allegations within Pace. The letter was heard, and the Assembly decided in June 2017 that an independent commission would conduct the investigation. This commission included the Swedish judge Elisabet Fura. The report was published on 18 April this year, and it clearly showed that Members of the Assembly had not only violated the code of conduct but had actually committed crimes against the very essence of what the Council of Europe stands for by selling their votes for money, caviar, silk carpets and other benefits. It casts a black shadow over the whole Assembly, and it takes great effort for the Council of Europe to repair the loss of confidence caused by these corrupt Members. The Council of Europe, which is the most important human rights organisation in Europe and to which people turn for justice, cannot and should not be represented by villains. During the four sessions in 2017, the Assembly adopted 55 r esolutions, 21 recommendations and four opinions. The issues that dominated the 2017 agenda remain topical – the development of democracy in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Hungary and Ukraine, Russia's annexation of Crimea and the migration and refugee crisis. Some countries have demonstrated in both words and deeds that they do not share the fundamental values of the Council of Europe. Particularly worrying is the negative development of democracy in the EU countries Hungary, Romania and Poland. Since the EU lacks tools to influence Member States in this respect, the Council of Europe must act. Ongoing audits of Member States' legal systems should be an effective measure. The situation following the failed coup attempt in Turkey, the implementation of a state of emergency, mass redundancies of public officials, judges and prosecutors, and the arrests of opponents are causing great concern about developments in Turkey. Everything points to Turkey moving in the wrong direction in terms of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. The proposal to reintroduce the death penalty, which was abolished when Turkey became a member of the Council of Europe, sent another signal of the need to resume full supervision of Turkey, which was also voted through by a large majority. At the same time, the door to dialogue with Turkey must not be closed. It should not be forgotten that 49% of the Turkish electorate voted against the amendments to the Constitution. Since I became a member of the Swedish delegation, Russia has been a topical topic. The Russian delegation's accreditation was questioned in April 2014 and January 2015 as a result of the annexation of Crimea. In 2016, Russia chose not to nominate a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, which was repeated in 2017. In the same year, Russia stopped paying its fee to the Council of Europe. Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov announced that payments will only resume once the full rights of the Russian delegation have been restored. Russia's debt to the Council of Europe is being discussed, because it does not make the Assembly's budget go together. There are voices that want Russia to come back, even though the illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the warfare in eastern Ukraine continue. This is explained by the desire to give the Russian people access to the European Court of Human Rights, and it is a laudable determination. But is the Council of Europe for sale? Can we turn a blind eye to the illegal occupation simply because the administration of the Assembly needs money? Moreover, the Russian Constitutional Court has ruled that the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which are contrary to the Russian Constitution, need not be complied with. This year there were presidential elections in Russia, indeed on the anniversary of the formal annexation of Crimea: 18 March. It was no coincidence, given the high popularity figures that Putin received when signing the law that made the Republic of Crimea part of the Russian Federation on 18 March 2014. It is painful that the Secretary-General of the Council of Thorbjørn, Thorbjørn Jagland, sent a letter of congratulations to Putin, despite the fact that the presidential elections were neither very free nor very fair and that Putin is not directly known as a champion of human rights. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about the status of partner for democracy, which the Council of Europe established in 2010. With this status, a country's delegation may participate in meetings and sessions of the Assembly but not in votes. One requirement is that the country should respect human rights. Not all partner countries do. Recently, Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas blamed the Holocaust and the persecution of the Jews themselves. It is a totally unacceptable demonstration of anti-Semitism which must have repercussions. In view of all the documents condemning anti-Semitism by the Council of Europe, it is extremely strange that the President of the Palestinian Authority can express himself in this despicable way. The credibility of the Council of Europe is undermined if partner-pre-democracy countries fail to meet their commitments. The government, as a representative of Sweden, must take a firm stance on this point. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank our officials at the Parliament's International Office for their work. I would also like to thank my colleagues. The Swedish delegation has a very good reputation in the Assembly because of the high attendance at the votes and the active participation in the debates. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-626	Madam President, I would like Yes, the development of democracy, human rights and the rule of law are unfortunately not moving in the right direction in our Europe. This is something that the Council of Europe is clearly noticing. It is important that it is also made clear in this House, in the debate that we are now having. We have seen developments surreptitiously and by military means go in the wrong direction. I am, of course, talking about Hungary, Poland, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Moldova, but also about Russia, Ukraine and Turkey. The principles of the rule of law, for which all of us who have signed up and set out to work, and have believed that we are about to reach, are being undermined quite clearly. It has also emerged from following the Council of Europe's expert bodies, the Venice Commission, and all the reports coming from them on the ongoing dismantling of justice systems. Independent legal systems are becoming increasingly dependent, and this is deeply serious. It is also serious because the European Convention, which is our common base for human rights, is thus also undermined by the various Member States. We see that freedom of the media, freedom of expression and, as I said, a free and independent judiciary are being undermined. This is about 2017, i.e. the previous year. Two issues, Madam President, have so strongly influenced the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that it has taken almost all the strength of the Assembly, but it has also been an important cleaning task in order to assert the standards and values on which our activities are based. Of course, in one case it has been about the corruption charges that have come up and the struggle that the Parliamentary Assembly has waged. The Swedish delegation has also been very strongly involved in the struggle to get to the surface and to deal with the activities that have been. It is also clear that this has also turned the political debate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe upside down, because there is really no group that is completely free from having some of the corruption charges under its influence. This is an important lesson, which is why Parliament and other parliaments must work clearly to review. It is Parliament's task to examine those of us who have been entrusted to the delegation so that we can behave. But even in the exchange between Parliament, it is important to signal, just as we have seen that the Spanish Cortes are now doing, which demands that we clean and secure so that we do not send MEPs who have been accused of corruption to the Assembly. It is an important cleaning, Madam President. It is clear that if we look at the developments in our Europe and not just in the world, we see that corruption is very present. Transparency International shows that for Eastern Europe the average is 34 out of 100 in terms of the corruption situation. It goes without saying that this has an impact, and that is why it is important that in our work as the Swedish Parliament's envoys in the Council of Europe, we work to counteract, make visible and prevent corruption from taking hold. The second issue that has been clear, of course, is the fact that the Russian delegation does not have the right to vote in the Assembly and some other things. There have been questions about what to do. There are those who say that we are preventing dialogue. This is not the case, because everyone is welcome to participate in the dialogue. However, one cannot vote, and that is an important thing. Russia has independently applied for membership of the Council of Europe, committed itself to missions and signed up. But they have also independently made decisions contrary to what they promised and contrary to what they said about the annexation of Crimea, to enter and change borders by military means. That is not acceptable. There must be consequences, and that is what seems to be happening now. The fact that Russia then chooses once again to break and stand outside, but also not to pay its commitments, affects all that work. In fact, they are still members of the Committee of Ministers. Yet they refuse to pay what they are obliged to do. Nor do they stand up for monitoring even though they are obliged to do so. They do not invite election observation even though they have undertaken to do so. On a point-by-point basis, therefore, Russia and the Russian Duma choose to ignore the commitments they have made, and this must have consequences. We have Trojan horses, Madam President, in the European norm system with a clear Russian presence, but it is also going on with other actors. We are seeing an orbanization in Europe, and we must stand up to stop it. Our values are being undermined, and we see it, of course, also in the run-up to the elections in Turkey. We look back on 2017 and see that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has drawn conclusions from what has happened in Turkey. We undoubtedly condemn the attempted coup, but equally we condemn the disproportionate responses of Turkey's leadership under Erdo中an to opposition in all its forms. It could be children, women, foreign citizens, civil society, Amnesty's leadership and so on. It's government employees, and it's judges. This is not least about journalists. There is no longer any free media. There is, of course, a state of emergency. Our parliamentary colleagues are also threatened; parts of Parliament are in prison. Prisons are being filled, and this, of course, also affects the Council of Europe. In this situation, the Council of Europe nevertheless chose to take action in the form of reopening monitoring. This was leading Turkey to make a Russian manoeuvre and to leave the Parliamentary Assembly completely. In the end, however, they chose not to. However, some of the resources previously promised to invest in Turkey have been withdrawn this year, because it is clear that when Mr Erdo中an talks about reintroducing the death penalty, we must react. When Mr Erdo中an raises those questions and says that he will sign such a proposal, there is no doubt that such a signature will mean that they will have to leave the Council of Europe. With this, Madam President, I would like to call for reservation 3, paragraph 1, in order to uphold the standards on which the Council of Europe is based. I would also like to thank the colleagues and officials of the delegation for their work in 2017.
i-UCssKMpdbPmtGnWw4iSsny	Madam President, I would like We have continued to debate the Foreign Affairs Committee's report 12 on the Council of Europe. The report deals with the report by the Swedish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Government's letter on the activities of the Council of Europe and a number of requests for exercise. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. This is the last European Council debate of this term of office, and as chairman of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to begin by thanking the rest of the delegation. We have shown that, despite different party names, it is possible to maintain effective cooperation on many and sometimes difficult issues. In particular, I would like to thank Hillevi Engström, Olof Lavesson, Tobias Billström and Boriana Åberg, all four of whom have performed their duties as vice-chairman of the delegation during their term of office. Of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the staff at RIK who supported us in our work over the years – most recently in the form of Petra Sjöström and Anna-Sara-Sara Hultgård Czernich. Without them, our work would have been much heavier and more difficult. Madam President, I would like The Swedish delegation is very active in the work of the Assembly and bears the trust that has been given us by Parliament's Chamber in a commendable way. If we look at statistics on attendance in the Assembly during votes and participation in committee meetings, we see that the delegation is at the top. Several members of the delegation have during their term of office undertaken important responsibilities as rapporteurs or spokespersons. This has been important in order to give a strong and clear Swedish voice in the processes that are going on in the organisation during a very turbulent time. Developments in the core values of the Council of Europe, namely human rights, democracy and the rule of law, are still described in the Government's letter as rather bleak. There's something I think we can all sign. The activities of the organisation continue to take place against a background of economic difficulties, terrorist threats and refugee crisis. Political populism, intolerance and racism are gaining momentum in several Member States. What happens in Turkey after the coup attempt in July 2016 and following Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and developments in Eastern Ukraine shows a clear lack of respect for the commitments made by each country. These challenges, together with a more strained economy and, not least, serious corruption charges, have had a strong impact on the work of the Council of Europe. Both Turkey and Russia have reacted to the criticism they have received with financial pressure against the Council of Europe, and they have shown dissatisfaction with the decisions and processes that are going on in the Assembly. Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe remains an incredibly relevant player in the development of the rule of law, democracy and the protection and enforcement of human rights in Europe. The Court of Justice, the Human Rights Commissioner, the Council of Ministers, the Municipal Congress, the Venice Commission, the Parliamentary Assembly and other parts of the organisation are still invaluable institutions to keep Europe's states on track when it comes to core values. The increasingly developed interaction between the EU and the Council of Europe shows that, despite the EU's extensive tasks and commitments, the Council of Europe has a specific competence which remains incredibly important for Europe's development. Here, of course, the work of the Venice Commission must show us Poland as the basis for the European Commission's action under Article 7(1) of the Treaty. The relevance of the organisation may be most evident in view of the criticism and relatively mild sanctions imposed on Russia due to the illegal annexation of the Ukrainian Crimean Peninsula and the conscious and strategic corrupt activities of Azerbaijani interests towards members of the Assembly. The sanctions imposed by the Assembly against the former Russian delegation have led Russia to suspend its participation in the work of the Assembly and to refrain from appointing a delegation for the last few years. In the Assembly, a temporary committee consisting of the Bureau and all the heads of delegations has been set up. The purpose of the Committee is to look, among other things, at the Assembly's statutes and future role. In the Committee's discussions, proposals have been put forward which would already weaken the Assembly's relatively weak means of imposing sanctions and possibly open to other changes which would make it more difficult to take action against those States and delegations which do not contribute to meeting the commitments. Although I feel that there is a great Swedish consensus on these issues, I think it is important for the House to be aware of the discussions that are taking place. Madam President, I would like Of course, the suspicions and accusations of corruption that became increasingly evident in the Assembly last autumn have had a significant impact on the work of the Assembly. The suspicions and accusations led to the establishment of an independent corruption investigation. After good and effective work by the Swedish delegation led by Tobias Billström during my parental leave, the former Swedish judge at the European Court of Human Rights and former Swedish director-JO Elisabet Fura were proposed to be part of the group of three who had to do the important work. The group presented its conclusions in April this year, and it is only to be noted that the suspicions of corruption and corrupt behaviour have not been taken out of the air. The report identifies a number of people, both present and former members of the Assembly. As a first step following the report, the current members mentioned in the report were asked to suspend their work in the Assembly on a temporary basis while limiting the access of former members to the Assembly premises. The report was sent to the Assembly's Rule Committee for further handling, and they gave a ruling as early as yesterday. The former president of the Assembly, Pedro Agramunt, from Spain, is deprived of the majority of rights as a member for ten years, including the right to chair the Assembly or one of its committees. He also loses the right to represent the Assembly externally and to participate in election observation missions. The same sanctions are also imposed on Cezar Florin Preda from Romania, Samad Seyidov from Azerbaijan and Jordi Xuclà from Spain – but only for a period of two years. Madam President, I would like The report has also been sent to the Presidents of all the parliaments of the Member States so that action can be taken at national level if necessary. In this connection, I would like to say that I and the delegation are otherwise available if there are questions about the content of the report or how it is handled in the Assembly. Here is a Nordic and a Swedish dimension that is interesting for us to address. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank the delegation for its good work. We have worked together in a good way, and we have kept the banner of democracy, the rule of law and freedom high. I hope the next delegation can do the same.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-656	Madam President, I would like When Europe faces major challenges, the Council of Europe is well placed to provide an important platform for exchange, dialogue and cooperation. It will now be particularly important to stand up and defend the core values of the Council of Europe in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights are key tools at work. Unfortunately, the activities of the Council of Europe have been characterised by a crisis of confidence over the period, as several Members have already mentioned. The former president of the Assembly, Agramunt, resigned during the year following allegations of corruption, and an independent corruption investigation was set up to review the entire operation. The report was presented in April this year. It is now extremely important that the work to combat all forms of corruption is really taken very seriously and that concrete measures are put in place as soon as possible so that the credibility of the Council is not undermined. I am pleased that the Swedish delegation was united and played an active role in getting the important work done. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has debated a number of issues relating to the migration and refugee crisis, social inequalities, media issues, human rights and democratic developments in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Hungary, Belarus and Ukraine. I do not have time to comment on all these reports, but I choose to concentrate my speech on some issues which I consider to be of great importance. The issue of Russia's annexation of Crimea and developments in eastern Ukraine has continued to be at the centre. In 2014 and 20 15, the Assembly decided that Russia would be temporarily deprived of its right to vote in the Assembly due to the Russian annexation of Crimea and developments in Ukraine. The Left Party shares the Swedish delegation's position and supports continued sanctions against Russia. The issue of migration and refugees has been debated on several occasions, and a number of resolutions have been adopted which have addressed, inter alia, the importance of good integration with active measures and the fight against all forms of discrimination. The fact that Member States have not been able to work together on measures to resolve the migration and refugee crisis, although it is still one of the greatest challenges facing Europe, has also been addressed. I think it is scandalous that the rich Europe does not take responsibility for people fleeing war, terror and persecution, and that more and more countries, including Sweden, are facing increasingly harsh restrictions. Instead of a generous refugee policy, Europe has chosen to allow countries such as Turkey and Libya to act as border police. Madam President, I would like It must be stressed that the work for democracy and human rights on our continent needs to be significantly strengthened. We see human rights being violated in countries such as Turkey, Hungary, Russia, Poland, Romania and Azerbaijan. It is a step backwards from the Council of Europe, in which several countries disregard the commitments of membership by violating human rights in various ways. I would like to mention in particular the serious situation in Azerbaijan and Turkey. It is against this background that it is positive that the Council of Europe adopted a report expressing, among other things, concerns about the situation in Azerbaijan, particularly with regard to the imprisonment of oppositionists and journalists. It must urgently honour its commitments under the European Convention, release political prisoners and create an environment conducive to media and organisational freedom. The situation in Turkey is becoming increasingly difficult with regard to human rights. The country has taken several steps away from the path of democracy, especially since the failed coup attempt in July 2016. It is clear that the coup attempt was used to strengthen the current regime and silence all opposition in the country, including mass arrests and dismissals. The Kurdish population and the Left party HDP have been particularly affected by the imprisonment of a large number of their democratically elected leaders at various levels. Against this background, it is very good that the Parliamentary Assembly decided to resume the monitoring procedure with regard to Turkey, which I hope can contribute to change. Another area discussed on several occasions is the situation of the media and journalists in Europe. Freedom of expression and information, as well as freedom and independence of the media, are fundamental prerequisites for democracy. It is therefore deeply worrying that journalists and other media actors are increasingly being harassed, imprisoned and also killed in Europe. It is against this background that it is positive that the Council of Europe has developed a platform to promote the protection of journalism and the security of journalists and that it is constantly monitoring developments. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Eva-Lena Jansson, who was rapporteur for an important report on the difficult humanitarian situation in Gaza. In Gaza, which has been described as the world's largest outdoor prison, large groups suffer a shortage of most: housing, schools, sanitation, work and livelihoods. Gaza risks becoming uninhabitable by 2020 if the situation does not improve. Around 1.1 million people depend on humanitarian aid. The report notes that a prerequisite for progress is the lifting of the blockade so that supplies and building materials reach the needy and Gaza can be rebuilt. We are now seeing the consequences of the blockade and the enormous frustration experienced by people in Gaza – a frustration which, instead of humanism, is confronted with sharp bullets, which will undoubtedly exacerbate the situation further. I would also like to mention a report which may not have received much attention but which means a great deal to those affected by it, because it is the first of its kind to have been adopted at this level. It is about the promotion of human rights and the elimination of discrimination against intersex persons. A group that has been too marginalised and subjected to various violations has now had a report to lean on. I am very pleased about that. Finally, I note that the Swedish delegation has once again been very active during its term of office and that the mood in the delegation has been good. I would like to thank the whole delegation, in particular Jonas Gunnarsson, who has been the head of the delegation, for his very good cooperation. I would also like to thank our very competent officials very much. Without you, it would have been difficult to complete this mission. Thank you very much.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-674	Madam President, I would like As is well known, we are today debating the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the activities of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In many respects, developments in the world and Europe have gone in the wrong direction. There are others here who have talked about it. We have seen corruption problems, which are something we need to keep working on. It is because of this kind of problem that the work of the Council of Europe is so extremely important. The Council of Europe is intergovernmental cooperation to promote human rights and at the same time synchronise Member States on issues of common understanding. It's something very nice. For this reason, there is much that could be said today. Several have spoken of corruption, for example. I was going to focus on some other areas that are to be considered very important right now. One of these areas is the fundamental right to freedom of opinion and to belong or not to an association. The right to voluntarily choose political opinion and trade union organisation is protected by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This should be self-evident and fundamental for all democratic countries. Madam President, I would like I will present some articles of the European Charter. Article 5 establishes the right of employees and employers to form and belong to an organisation that protects their economic and social interests. The task of the State is to protect citizens' ability to exercise this right. Article 11 states that every citizen has the right to join trade unions in order to protect his or her interests. Article 14 establishes a prohibition of discrimination on grounds such as sex, ethnicity, colour, language, religion and political or other views. Despite these articles, there is discrimination on the basis of political opinion in Europe, even here in Sweden. In Belarus, the situation is so serious that politically active prisoners are imprisoned. Fortunately, the situation in Sweden is not so serious, but politicians have been excluded from trade unions, subjected to violence and lost their jobs because of their political domicile. I myself am one of very many people in Sweden who have been forced to endure violence, threats, vandalism and harassment as a result of my opinions. That this may occur in our country, which is relatively well developed, is shameful. I'm ashamed of such a thing. Sweden should set an example in these respects in the Council of Europe, and the Swedish Government should distance itself far more clearly from this type of discrimination and actively pursue the issue in the Council of Europe in order to strengthen such self-evident rights for the citizens of the Member States of the Council of Europe. Madam President, I would like While we are in this area, which concerns the pillar of democracy and the right to freedom of opinion and human rights of the Council of Europe, it is easy to think of Turkey. It is not only in Belarus that people are imprisoned as a result of their political views. This also happens in Turkey. Turkey was one of the first countries to join the Council of Europe after its formation. It has long been seen as an example, much because Turkey in its part of the world has been regarded as relatively democratic and secular. In recent years, however, we have seen how things have gone in the wrong direction. For many years, the Turkish regime has been actively oppressing its citizens, not least its Kurdish citizens. Even the Kurds have been denied their existence. It has been hard on minorities, and it has actively pursued a policy that reflects back on the great times of the Ottoman Empire and its imperialism. The invasion of Cyprus showed what brutal and hard-line the Turks had already in the mid-70s. We are still seeing similar actions today. Both Iraq and Syria have been attacked with their military power and have clearly violated international law. The Erdo中an regime has also proved to be ignoring the ceasefire agreed by the UN Security Council. It was broken when brutal Islamist groups invaded Kurdish Afrin province in northwestern Syria. Horrifyingly, all the other parties in Sweden, with their declared support for the Turkish-supported so-called interim government, have indirectly legitimised this attack when this particular government formed a council which then invaded Afrin. It is also somewhat contradictory, given that some support has been expressed for the Syrian Democratic Forces, which were attacked by these militias, supported by the West. As I mentioned earlier, there is also widespread and frequent abuse of fundamental human rights inside Turkey. We saw this not least after the failed coup attempt when hundreds of thousands of journalists, human rights activists, judges, lawyers, police officers, teachers, political activists and many others were imprisoned, dismissed or attacked in various ways. Often for no reason, they were accused of being connected to a political movement. The fact that this happened just a few days after the coup attempt testifies to an extensive registration of opinions that should send a warning signal. In view of the exemplary behaviour of the Council of Europe when Russia violated various rights, there was a hope that both Sweden and the Council of Europe would act in a similar way against Turkey. But that was not the case, after all we have seen from the rogue state of Turkey. Madam President, I would like The Member States of the Council of Europe must meet three requirements in order to remain in this cooperation. They must have democratic governance, which Turkey can hardly be considered to have, they must be in Europe and, last but not least, they must respect the fundamental human rights and freedoms of citizens, as we have clearly seen that Turkey does not. One does not need to be a genius to understand that Turkey's large delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly and generous financial contributions affect the Member States' approach to the country. Nor does it need to be a genius to understand that Turkey's influence in the many different political groups that exist also means political influence. This is precisely what risks undermining the reputation of the Council of Europe and weakening legitimacy. The Council of Europe will stand up for human rights, democracy and freedom of expression throughout the world. For this reason, Sweden must act to uphold the principles that are fundamental in the Council of Europe. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, I will briefly mention a development in Europe that we all have reason to be very concerned about, namely the widespread anti-Semitism. It has also been clear in Sweden for a number of years. The anti-Semitic violence against Jews in the world has become much more brutal, and the long-term trend shows a real increase. How can this happen when we know what happened in Europe in the 1930s and 1940s? How can you only look at hatred and intolerance spreading? This is an unacceptable development, and there must be a change. The Council of Europe plays an important role here. We must defend the human rights of our citizens and, at the same time, work together to combat anti-Semitism and spread knowledge in order to counter prejudice and hatred, whether it comes from right-wing extremists, Islamists or the many anti-Semitic currents within the left. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Council of Europe for its time and to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-699	Madam President, I would like One of the issues I did not raise in my speech was the event in 2017 that started the whole process in the Council of Europe of examining corruption allegations. It was about the delegation led by the Russian Duma's sanction members, President Agramunt and the leader of our group, Jordi Xuclà, and others who went to Syria to sit under President Asad's portrait and become part of Asad's campaign. It is not a campaign for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, but a campaign against its own people – a campaign that is also taking place with chemical weapons. This was the beginning of the 2017 uprising in the Parliamentary Assembly. It was opposed that this happened and that the reputation of the Assembly of Members was reduced by this action. As Markus Wiechel himself travelled to Syria and was in the same settings as the Parliamentary Assembly group, there is reason, Madam President, to raise this issue. They went on Russian military planes and stayed in Syria with Asad's and Russia's approval and saw and met them whom Asad and Russia thought they would meet. This is a problem that this Parliamentary Assembly, the Swedish Parliament, should also be aware of.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-704	Madam President, I would like There has long been a debate about criminalising fake news. If I were Kerstin Lundgren, I would be worried if it became a reality, given all the gibberish that Kerstin Lundgren is spreading. Unlike Kerstin Lundgren, in my role as a Member of Parliament, I personally take a responsibility to care about even the people who live in the most harsh repressive states and under an authoritarian regime. I believe that more members of the Swedish Parliament should do so and not just look after the people who live under relatively calm governments. This view is also shared by UN personnel, aid workers and oppositionists in Syria. Kerstin Lundgren has no idea who we met when we were in Syria. But our schedule is a public document, so just ask it out. We met six different UN bodies, religious representatives, minorities and oppositionists. Our journey was about caring about the weakest. As far as sitting under a portrait of a certain person is concerned, there are many politicians who can get caught up in such photos on a trip or in Sweden. It's not something you should be loaded for when you care about the weak in the country.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-708	Madam President, I would like The weak in Syria are the half of the population who have been forced to flee the war and the victims of the Asad regime's chemical weapons attacks. Who are weaker than the children affected by this? How many of these met the delegation that went from the Council of Europe to Asad's Syria? None. I just referred to Markus Wiechel as an example. It was clear that those who went from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe went on the Russian invitation with Russian transport planes, and they did so with Asad's and Russia's approval. It was a prerequisite for them to get in this way. It is not simply getting into areas like this, and it was, of course, not easy or possible to face the victims of the kem-weapon campaign that we have seen from the regime. This was one of the things that started the process of clearing up the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because there were representatives who were elected leaders who had stepped in with Asad's images behind them and made themselves a campaign structure for them. If you go to Syri and are invited and meet Asad's regime, you are aware that you become part of a campaign organization. We shall be clear about this. I would actually have been interested to hear what you think about Orbánization, but we will have to do that another time.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-713	Madam President, I would like First of all, we were not invited to Syria, but we made a request to go there, just as Kerstin Lundgren can do if she now cares about the people who live there. This request was accepted. Then there are some differences here. I and also Johan Nissinen supported the removal of Agramunt. Now we never came to that vote, but we were full of it, given that what he did was not okay. As I said, he went there under the protection of Russian troops and Syrian representatives, not to meet Syrians, oppositionists or religious representatives, as far as I know, but probably because it was an invitation trip from Russia. This was definitely not the case for us. We paid for our journey ourselves, and we met completely different people. I find it a bit sad that Kerstin Lundgren is engaged in some sort of guilt village association here. Neither I nor Martin Kinnunen, who went on the trip, have any connection whatsoever to Agramunt or, for that matter, the Russian regime or anything like that. To compare us with him or Russia I would say is to throw stones in glass houses, if you do not – as Kerstin Lundgren may want – want to be associated with Pinochet or someone else who has a partially liberal policy. It is not possible to just pick people and then claim that they have some kind of association when they actually do not have it. I have no connection with Agramunt or the Russian regime, any more than Kerstin Lundgren has with Pinochet or anyone else who has a relatively liberal policy. In addition, there are fairly clear dividing lines between Agramunt's policy and my policy.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-717	Madam President, I would like In his speech, my party colleague Jonas Gunnarsson raised major and important issues of principle that dominated the work of the Council of Europe in 2017. I would now like to raise a specific report whose content has become highly topical this week. During the January 2017 session of the Council of Europe, I presented my report on the humanitarian crisis in Gaza, where a large part of the population lives below the poverty line and more than 1.1 million people depend on humanitarian aid. In the report I described how there is a great lack of clean water and access to healthcare and that access to electricity is only sporadic. The reconstruction of homes and schools following the Israeli attacks in 2014 is slow as necessary building materials are prevented from being introduced. Unemployment is very high, especially among women. Women and girls are at risk of gender-based violence and need special protection. According to the UN, Gaza risks becoming uninhabitable by 2020 if the situation does not improve as quickly as possible. In connection with my report, a resolution was adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly by a large majority. However, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats voted against. The resolution included recommendations that the international community should ensure that medical and social services are provided to the people of Gaza and that a sustainable solution is found for water and energy. Israel's blockade must be lifted in order to ensure that the people of Gaza have access to fundamental and inalienable human rights. Madam President, I would like Since the adoption of the report and resolution by the Council of Europe, the humanitarian crisis in Gaza has worsened and the inhabitants are becoming increasingly desperate. A few days ago, the Israeli military shot 58 people to death, and nearly 2,800 other people were injured in protests at the Israeli- Gaza border. The Chairman of the Political Committee of the Council of Europe, Ria Oomen-Ruijten of the Netherlands and the EPP Group, made the following statement yesterday: I am appalled and strongly condemn the disproportionate use of violence by the Israeli army. I agree with the call for an independent international investigation into what has happened. I call on both Israelis and Palestinians to refrain from resorting to violence and to act to do their utmost to avoid further escalation and more deaths. The humanitarian crisis in Gaza must be resolved and the outside world must help to contribute to a lasting solution so that about 2 million people can have decent living conditions and thus be able to defend their human rights. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank the delegation. I would like to thank Parliament officials for their valuable contributions. I would particularly like to thank Jonas Gunnarsson for his contribution and role as delegation leader. It has been a privilege to be part of the delegation under your leadership, Jonas, so many thanks to you and to the delegation!
i-72c2f17eb706e055-727	Madam President, I would like I participated in the debate. I agree with Eva-Lena Jansson's description of the disastrous situation in Gaza, but I do not agree with the reasons. As Lotta Johnsson Fornarve mentioned in her speech, the Gaza Strip is usually described as the largest outdoor prison. As in all other prisons, prison guards sit on the inside. In fact, it is the Palestinian terrorist organisation Hamas that is to blame for the deep tragedy and misery suffered by the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip. They're using their own population as hostages. With their actions, they provoke people's protests – people who are without water, electricity and building materials. Why? Because all the building materials smuggled in are used to make tunnels to smuggle terrorists into Israel. That is why I voted against the resolution. I think that one should have a balance and be able to see the real reasons for the tragic development of the Gaza Strip.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-730	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in connection with the debate, I note that the major demonstrations that were taking place in December 2016 were precisely against Hamas, which has a very negative impact on the population. But there is also a country outside which prevents people from getting out of Gaza, which makes checks every day, which denies people who need cancer care to come to the West Bank and who deny relatives to accompany severely ill people. This is also described in the report. The proposals contained in the resolution are the same as Carl Bildt proposed when he was a foreign minister, so I find it difficult to see that this would differ significantly from other policies. I note that both the Norwegian Høyre and the Fremskritt Party voted in favour of the resolution. So it was not so controversial, but, as I said, a large majority in the Council of Europe delegation voted in favour. I agree with what Boriana Åberg mentioned in her speech on the difficult situation of the people of Gaza. I think she should have the honour of this.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-733	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Eva-Lena Jansson as a colleague, and I appreciate her commitment. But I can't help but see that she's wrong about the attitude that it's all Israel's fault. We all know what the Gaza Strip looked like when Israel left it. It was a well-functioning society with greenhouses where vegetables were grown, and people had jobs. Now, 13 years later, it looks like it does. I would also like to object to the fact that Palestinian citizens are not being treated. It even performs transplants of organs from deceased Israelis to Palestinian children, including heart transplants. The problem is Hamas, which is de facto governing Gaza. They have declared Israel their enemy. Say what you want, but Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East where, for example, homosexuals can be open with their love. There people have a freedom that neighbors to Israel can only dream of. I would therefore like Eva-Lena Jansson, as a good person, to open her eyes and see both sides and also recognise Israel's right to defend herself, because the Hamas terrorist group is involved in major crimes against humanity. This is a terrorist offence on Israel's territory. They send rockets and provoke demonstrations. The demonstrations that took place at the beginning of the week were incited by Hamas.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-737	Madam President, I would like With regard to Hamas and the activities they carry out, I described, for example, how Palestinians had been tortured. I also described the efforts that need to be made to counter terrorism. I also wrote in the resolution that Israel has the right to defend itself against attacks and that the Palestinian Authority must condemn acts of terrorism. I was very clear about that. But one cannot escape the fact that it is the stronger party who has the greatest responsibility. And on this issue, it is the State of Israel that has the great responsibility and must ensure that people are given their human rights. I have not mentioned everything in the report, because I only had four minutes. But there is so much more to say about the situation. Those who are suffering today are the people trapped in Gaza. I can only regret their situation.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-740	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is very easy to sit on your high horses and constantly complain about Israel when you have neighbours like Norway, Finland and Denmark. Israel has neighbours like Hamas, Hezbollah, IS and Al-Qaeda. There's a pretty big difference. We can look at Hamas running Gaza. In the last few days, during these protests against the embassy move, they have used babies as human shields. There are pictures online showing that they have painted the Israeli flag on a donkey and then set the donkey on fire. It's a brutal terrorist organization. Before Israel withdrew from Gaza, there was a functioning infrastructure. Hamas has destroyed all of this. The sewage systems have been used and rockets have been built from them to shoot at the civilian population in Israel. It is a terrorist organisation that governs Gaza, and this is something that Israel must relate to. With regard to the statement that Israel would stop trucks going to Gaza, I would like to ask Eva-Lena Jansson how many trucks she believes go to Gaza from Israel every year.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-744	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really on Markus Wiechels's question. I was talking about building materials. But I condemn all forms of terrorism. I condemn the terrorist attacks that Hamas is engaged in. I think I've made that clear. If you read the report, it is also very clear that I reject this type of document. I think it is important to highlight this situation. It was my mission as rapporteur to describe it. I was denied by the Israeli authority to enter Gaza. However, I visited both the east and the west of Jerusalem. I was also in the West Bank and took note of the situation of the Palestinians and what it is like to pass various types of controls. The situation in Gaza today does not improve by people not being able to get out and work, it does not improve by the destruction of sewage systems, it does not improve by shooting at fishermen and that people are not allowed to fish according to the limits laid down in the Oslo Agreement but is limited by the fact that the Palestinians are not better off being prevented from using valuable agricultural land on the grounds that Israel wants security far into Palestinian territory. This affects the situation, and the prospects for children born in Gaza are extremely bad. The situation of children in terms of mental health and the possibility of going to school – lots of schools were bombed apart during the Israeli attacks in 2014 – is, of course, such that there are no prospects for a single child in this country. So there are major problems there, and people are frustrated. That is not to say that terrorist acts are to be carried out. Demonstration is, in fact, a human right.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-748	Madam President, I would like I believe that all the members here in the Swedish Parliament are behind us trying to help the civilian population in Gaza and try to support those in need of help. But what is the alternative for Israel? They have a duty to their own citizens to protect them from terrorists. As we well know, both within the PLO and not least within Hamas, the state of Israel is being completely destroyed, Jews eliminated and so on. This is nothing new, but something that has been known for many years. I'll get back to the transports. In 2017, at least 160 000 trucks were sent from Israel with supplies. It is Israel who assists many of the Gaza civilians with the supplies they need, and it is Hamas and the terrorists who are there who in many cases are destroying the infrastructure that Israel has once built up. Only two days ago Hamas stopped two trucks that Israel sent to Gaza. Hamas stopped these trucks and then blamed Israel. This is something that I think is worth thinking about before running the terrorist's business.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-751	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that Markus Wiechel says that I am acting on behalf of Hamas. I am talking about the Palestinian people who are suffering in Gaza. That is what the report is about. I reject Hamas' terrorist acts, and I reject anti-Semitism, whether in Palestinian areas, in Hungary or in Sweden. Anti-Semitism is terrible and should be condemned wherever it is expressed and whoever expresses it. However, what is happening in Gaza today is that children are denied proper upbringing – being able to go to school and having a decent place to live. I also described in the report, about Markus Wiechel read it, how much more supplies the Israeli State provides come in. That is very clear. However, it is also clear that people's ability to travel between Palestinian areas in the West Bank and Gaza is very limited, whether they are cancer sufferers, to work or to visit relatives. For example, if you have left Gaza to study, you cannot come back. The violations of human rights are therefore very clear. That is also why the Council of Europe adopted both the report and the resolution by a large majority.
i-Rbp4p2A1Qv1fscqWhYBErX	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs deals with the report by the Swedish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the work carried out last year and the Government's letter on the activities of the OSSE during the second half of 2016 and the full year of 2017. Election observation missions are often described as one of the most important tasks handled by the OSSE. Indeed, the importance of these missions cannot be underestimated in terms of protecting democracy. Election observation missions are carried out in cooperation with the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, and Sweden contributes annually to the activities by sending Swedish observers to these missions. As new voting techniques are introduced in more and more countries, election observers face new challenges. The new digitalised technologies require a new approach to how elections are monitored and observed in order to protect free and fair democratic elections. There will be a need for completely different knowledge and methods of observation. In view of this, I tabled a resolution within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly at the Minsk meeting last year. The resolution was adopted and became part of the Minsk declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly. The resolution stresses the need to create within the OSSE a working group aimed at further examining the role of OSCE election observers when new voting techniques are used in elections. It is extremely important that observers can see the whole process before, during and after the elections in order to confirm that the systems are functioning as they are intended. Therefore, source code and other information on the electoral process must be available, and observers must be able to interpret it. It is no longer just a matter of observing that people can engage in public opinion and go to the polls and vote and monitor the counting of votes. The Parliamentary Assembly calls, through the Declaration, inter alia, for the participating States to be at the forefront of developing new ways of observing elections using new voting techniques and of exchanging experiences, ideas and methods regarding new technologies and their effects on democracy. We Swedish democrats believe that this should have a Swedish focus next year and that the Swedish government should work towards creating a working group in accordance with the declaration. Madam President, I would like At the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly, various side arrangements are held. In preparation for the summer meeting in 2016, together with colleagues from the Austrian FPÖ, Italian Lega Nord and Hungarian Fidesz, I took the initiative for a side event under the name Family Lunch. We wrote a letter to the President and Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly saying that we wanted to have our side arrangement approved, which we also got. The purpose of our arrangement was to lift Article 16(3) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states that the family is the natural fundamental unit of society and is entitled to protection from society and the state. This is, of course, a subject that unites politicians from most of the countries of the OSSE. The turnout was also really good, with about 40 representatives from many different countries. In the run-up to last year's summer meeting in Minsk, we again wrote a letter to the President and the Secretary-General, and we got our lunch approved again. Like the previous year, the attendance was really good. Representatives from Sweden, Finland, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, Greece, Belarus, Russia, the United States and Vatican City participated. In addition, the Secretary-Roberto, Mr Montella, took part, which we appreciate. Representatives from various civil organisations were also present. Several of the speeches made during lunch stressed that our lunch, in addition to the importance of showing joint support for the importance of the family, helps to build bridges between our different peoples. Who knows – maybe our lunch can be the step towards something bigger? Delegates from different countries who are otherwise in conflict with each other can be brought together in this way. Talking and seeing that, after all, there are some common denominators is perhaps a first step towards eventually being able to resolve some conflicts. Therefore, my ambition now is to continue with our side arrangement even during this year's summer meeting in Berlin. In addition, during this summer's meeting, I intend to hold a special seminar on my resolution, which was adopted last year, on new electronic voting techniques. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-764	Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report 2017/ 18:U13 on the organisation of security and cooperation in Europe. This is in all likelihood the last debate on the OSSE in the parliamentary term. I have had the privilege of first being Vice-President for four years and now chairing the Swedish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to say a few words about the term of office and the work we have done together in the Assembly. First of all, however, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. I feel that the task entrusted to me and my colleagues to represent the Riksdag in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is both meaningful, challenging and enriching. The Swedish delegation has been, and is, one of the most active members of the Assembly during its term of office. It is also one of the most valuing delegations. We are a diligent and conscientious delegation and have the capacity to generate trust in broad circles within the Parliamentary Assembly. As a result, we are constantly gaining positions of trust in the various areas of the congregation's work. I myself have served as Vice President of the Assembly for three years, and right now I am its Special Representative for Eastern Europe. Vice-Chairman of the Swedish delegation, Margareta Cederfelt from the Moderates, is currently Vice-President and member of the Migration Group of the Assembly. Christian Holm Barenfeld, also from the Moderates, is a member of the working group working on reforms within the Assembly. The OSSE is an organisation that, like the UN, works in an inclusive spirit. This places special demands on us who come from countries that are democratic and that defend freedom and human rights and are working clearly against corruption. The work of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly takes us to many places in the vast area of the 57 countries of the OSCE. It provides opportunities for broad networks but also demands us and gives us a responsibility as elected representatives in a value-based organisation. As long as freedom, oppression, persecution, conflict and corruption are a tangible part of the everyday life of so many of the OSCE Member States, the tough conversation must have its obvious place at the Assembly meetings. That is why, together with the Swedish delegation, I arranged a round table on human rights when the Assembly held its summer meeting in Minsk in Belarus last summer. It was perhaps not quite what the host nation had expected or wanted, but that is what it means to be value-based: to actually use these opportunities and meeting places to strive for greater freedom, increased human rights and basically increased conditions for democracy. Madam President, I would like I've only been on a trip on behalf of the congregation the other day. I travelled with the Assembly President Tsereteli and some other representatives. We went to eastern Ukraine and Donbass, the area where the war is going on with unabated strength – actually with increased strength right now. We came to the front and saw the suffering of the people who have chosen to remain in the no-man's-land that lies between the front on the Ukrainian side and the occupiers, who actually occupy the area by military means and on a daily basis shoot at civilian people. You use snipers, artillery fire and grenade launchers. I and my colleagues saw clear traces of the destruction and suffering resulting from the violence that is taking place in Eastern Ukraine. I also saw the work that the OSSE is doing with the many courageous people who are working for the OSCE. The observers we have in this area are called the SMM. They testify to the difficulty of working. They're trying to use modern technology, and they've taken drones there to monitor better. There is, of course, an agreement that the OSSE should be able to operate in this area, but seven of them have been shot down and destroyed. These are not small investments for the OSSE, and this is therefore taking place despite an agreement that the OSSE should be allowed to observe a so-called standstill between the parties until the Minsk negotiations arrive at a result. We called, of course, at our meeting with Mr Porosjenko, for Ukraine to continue with its internal reforms, for Ukraine to continue to fight corruption and internal difficulties, and for reforms to be implemented in Ukrainian society. Of course, however, the illegal occupation of Crimea and the violence in and occupation of the Donbas area are something that must stop immediately. The conditions for the OSSE to carry out its work in a peaceful manner, without the risk of being shot at, must be respected immediately. As Björn Söder mentioned earlier, election observation is a very important part of the work of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. It is also the case that this work is changing, as Björn Söder mentioned in his speech. I myself have done 19 international election monitors and led 3 of them. I have to say that the changes have gone quite quickly over the eight years that I have carried out this work. This applies not only to the way in which votes are counted, but also to the way in which the monitoring is being carried out today in polling stations and the way in which the identification of those who vote is being developed. Technology can be a threat if it is used by dictatorships or authoritarian regimes that only want to legitimise elections, but it can also be an asset if it is used in countries that are democratic and have confidence in the institutions that use technology. This will certainly challenge the way in which the Parliamentary Assembly operates in terms of election observation. However, I believe that the methodology of this work in particular will be changed by Mr Odihr, who is working on methodology, statistics and evaluation of elections, and not especially by the Parliamentary Assembly. We are practitioners of the methods that are being developed. I am therefore of the opinion that this work is certainly a work that is on-going. I think it is important that we from the Parliamentary Assembly push, but I think it is important above all that we ask the relevant questions to the institutions responsible for organising election observation. Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank the Parliament, which has entrusted me with the chairmanship of the delegation. I think that, as a delegation, we can move towards the end of the term of office with a job well done. I am proud of the delegation that I have been led. As I have mentioned, we are a very active delegation which has done a good job and which is respected throughout the Assembly. Another summer meeting is expected in a few weeks' time in Berlin. I know that the delegation is in full swing in preparing resolutions as well as side events. Björn has mentioned something, and I'm guessing that Margareta Cederfelt too will soon mention something for this summer meeting. I myself will continue my commitment to democratisation and the call for human rights in Belarus or Belarus. There are also a few more election observations waiting this summer. I would like to express my special thanks to all those from the Swedish delegation who have spent a great deal of time going on election observation weekend after weekend. These people give up family life and leave. They leave the Riksdag in the field and then come back to the Riksdag and start a new working week. They deserve special thanks. The Swedish delegation, together with the Italian delegation, is at the top of all 57 countries in standing up for election observation. I would like to extend warm thanks to them and express my respect for their work. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the delegation for their fine work and for their good comradeship. I would also like to thank the staff at RIK, who are always helpful to us. They travel with us and support us both in terms of security and all the practical and, of course, the content of our work. Many people have invested a lot of time to make a good effort, and I would like to thank everyone.
i-72c2f17eb706e055-784	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report on the work of the OSCE delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to start by saying that it is a small and thin report, but the activity is all the greater and is not covered in its entirety by the report. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly was established in 1990. Before that, the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, had existed since 1975. I'd like to stay for a little while by 1975. That's when the Cold War prevailed. Then there were difficulties for countries to discuss with each other. The horrors of war depended not least on the Nordic countries, where there was a strong fear of what might happen. What many feared never happened. But why did the OSSE come into existence? There were a number of diplomats who met in Helsinki and discussed how to work to break the Cold War and reduce the risk of war. What the diplomats there came up with, Madam President, was an organisation that worked somewhat differently on security issues than had been done in the past. It was about dialogue. It was about democracy. It was about human rights. On this basis, the OSSE was formed. The OSSE is following the original intentions, and I think that is important. We are again experiencing tensions in our world today. We are experiencing the threat of free speech. We feel that democracy and human rights are nabbed at the edges. The OSSE operates in three dimensions: a security policy, an economic and environmental dimension, and a democracy and human rights dimension. The Swedish delegation is active within all these dimensions. I would like to mention a few issues that have been discussed and worked on within the OSSE over the past year. It is, of course, a far-reaching perspective – the OSSE consists of 57 Member States, from Mongolia in the east to the United States and Canada in the west. One of the issues that has been discussed is the prolonged conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh and how to find peaceful solutions for how the parties – especially Armenia and Azerbaijan – can agree. Another issue concerns the situation in Georgia, with Abkhazia and South Ossetia, which are annexed by Russia, and a third issue discussed is the Russian aggression against Ukraine. The OSSE has also discussed issues relating to cyber security, migration, climate change, water supply, corruption and the protection of human rights despite growing populism, which we can see in a large number of OSCE Member States. I would also like to mention human rights, about which I have spoken briefly. At the last annual meeting, the summer meeting, Christian Holm raised the issue of human rights in Russia, Azerbaijan and Belarus. This is an issue that was not quite simple, because we have different views within the OSCE Member States on what democracy and human rights mean. But the Swedish delegation was very firm and clear and pushed the issue forward. As has been mentioned here before, election observation is an important part. I would like to say that it is not the election observation itself that is important, but what it is about is that the citizens' ability to vote in a democratic election is met. Ensuring that an election observation takes place in a satisfactory manner is, of course, not something that the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly does alone, but there is cooperation with Odihr, the Organisation for Democracy and Human Rights, which has experts in areas that are important for free and democratic elections – media experts, freedom of expression experts, human rights experts, civil society and security policy. An election is so much more than what happens on election day. Odihr participates with his experts one month or two before an election and stays after the election to see how the result is achieved. It is equally important what happens before, during and after an election and that a regime is prepared to hand over to another regime if it has lost the election. In an election observation, observers from the Council of Europe and the OSSE and from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly participate in the event that the observation takes place in a NATO country. When it is not about the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly but about the OSSE as such, there are also long-term observers on the ground – observers who are present in a large number of locations to see how society works. Of course, Madam President, it is clear from this that an election observation is something very large and requires resources. But that is important, because it is a question of the citizens' ability to cast their free democratic independent voice. Over the past year, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly has been involved in election observation in Italy, Russia and Azerbaijan. I am not debating the outcome of the election observation here, because it would take far too long to go into the details. But I would urge those who listen to the debate and colleagues here in Parliament to go into the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly's website and read the statements, because they contain very many interesting tasks and a lot of reflections that we in Sweden can also enjoy. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly has set up two working groups during the year to develop best practice and see if it is possible to find ways forward. A working group is working on the issue of migration. This is an issue which affects all the OSCE Member States in some way. The second issue is terrorism. How can we work to combat terrorism? It is also an issue which concerns all the Member States. We know this not least here in Sweden after we were struck by the terrible deed that took place on Drottninggatan and where the person who carried out the attack came from Uzbekistan – one of the member states of the OSSE. This shows that terrorism is an issue that concerns all of us. The eight special representatives of the OSSE have a large number of issues to monitor. Madam President, I would like I am now exceeding speaking time. However, I would like to conclude by thanking the delegation and its chairman, not only for this year but for the entire term of office. I would also like to thank the office staff who have helped us. Without a well-functioning office, we would stand flat in our work. Thank you very much to the officials of the Parliament's International Office!
