i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-1	Madam President, I would like Today, the Riksdag has a bill on its table dealing with changes to the regulations for survivors' support. A child is entitled to an orphan's pension or survivor's allowance if one parent or both parents have died. In order for a child to receive an orphan's pension, the deceased parent must have earned an income pension, while the survivor's allowance, which we are discussing today, is what is being provided as a supplement to or instead of an orphan's pension in order to guarantee a reasonable minimum standard of living. In connection with the launch of the new pension scheme, the survivor's allowance was also changed. It was then established that the survivor's and maintenance aid should be harmonised. It is a reasonable starting point that a child of a deceased parent is in principle given the same basic protection as a child of a divorced parent, for which the maintenance allowance is available. That is a principle which we Social Democrats consider to be perfectly reasonable. The main rule is that the survivor's allowance is more or less automatically provided without the need for a specific application from the month in which the death occurred. Of course, there are exceptions. One such thing when an application is actually required is, for example, when children are residing in Sweden but not their deceased parents have been at the time of death, which may, for example, apply to unaccompanied asylum seekers who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden and who meet the criteria required to be relevant to the survivor's allowance. It can then be submitted retroactively for a maximum of two years with the current regulations. This can then be compared with the maintenance aid which has a maximum retroactiveity of one month. However, this difference has been rather undramatic until a few years ago, when we saw a sharp increase in the number of survivors' aid granted and, above all, a sharp increase in the amount of retroactive payments. It is, of course, an increase that has raised a discussion and raised a number of questions about how the regulatory framework is formulated. It has become clear, among other things, that it is not harmonised with the maintenance aid, which creates different incentives for applications for different compensations. But there have also been questions about how it interacts and synchronises with other supply systems that may be relevant to the same people. This, taken together, is the background to the government's initiation of a review. In 2016, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency received a mandate from the Government and also made proposals on the change of limit to one month for retroactive payments, and on the need to further investigate how payments to children who are placed under the Social Services Act should be made. After this, the process has continued in the usual order. The government has made different balances. As we can read in the bill, it is quite rightly proposed that the retroactivity be reduced to six months. A united committee considers this to be a step in the right direction and therefore endorses the proposal. At the same time, we Social Democrats and a very broad majority in committee believe that the harmonisation of survivors' and maintenance support is an important starting point in principle. We also believe that a month, which is what applies to children with child support, is a perfectly reasonable time limit for what can be paid retroactively. It is not in any way a question of an individual child being deprived of his or her livelihood, which is important to emphasise here; it is simply a matter of order, of reasonableness and of equal treatment for children of divorced parents and children of deceased parents. Therefore, the government should return and further change the possibility of retroactive payments to one month. As regards the question of whether survivors' benefits can be paid to children living in HVB homes or the like, we can again note that the Social Insurance Agency and the Pensions Authority have looked at this and propose a further investigation. At the same time, they point out that maintenance support cannot be paid to children cared for in family homes, assisted housing or HVB homes under the Social Services Act, simply because the child will then be provided by the municipality instead. However, the corresponding rules are not as clear as regards survivors' payments. Many of the children and young people we are now talking about have come to Sweden as unaccompanied asylum seekers. For them, the municipality receives compensation for the supply support costs from the Finnish Immigration Service and, as a general rule, does not apply for any retroactive survivor's payment for them. But the individual can apply for this, which the municipalities often lack knowledge of. As a result, there is a risk of double compensation, which of course is not the intention. Therefore, the government should also proceed with the proposed investigation. Madam President, I would like In short, this is a step in the right direction, but it may be even better if we continue to work on the issue. I support the proposal in the report.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-13	Madam President, I would like When the survivor's allowance was constructed, the starting point was that children of a deceased parent should in principle receive the same basic protection as children of divorced parents, who thus receive maintenance support. In recent years, the forecast for survivor's benefit has shown an increase, due to the fact that more newly arrived children whose one parent or both parents are missing but also due to a change in practice since spring 2014, which means that a certificate from other countries is no longer an absolute requirement to be eligible for survivor's support. In view of this development, two years ago the Government issued a regulatory letter to the two authorities, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency, to identify the issue. As we heard here, the authorities described in this survey that there are currently differences in the regulatory framework between the maintenance aid and the survivor's aid. The authorities proposed to investigate whether the survivor's allowance, where the children are not entitled to an orphan's pension, should not be paid for more than one month before the month of application. This compares with the current situation, since it is possible to grant survivor's aid for a maximum of 24 months retroactively. In view of this, the government set up a working group within the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was tasked with reviewing this regulatory framework. The group then made a proposal whereby, in cases where the application is required, the retroactiveity of the survivor's aid may not be submitted for more than one month before the date of application, i.e. one month's retroactivity instead of 24 months in force today. Now we have this proposal on our table from the government. Unfortunately, the government did not choose to proceed with this proposal, but instead proposes a statutory retroactiveity in six months' time. The Alliance parties believe that the government is making a wrong balance here. We believe that the retroactivity should instead be reduced to one month in accordance with what has been proposed by both Försäkringskassan and the Pension Authority as well as in the Ministry Letter 2017:11. Madam President, I would like There are several reasons for this. One such reason is that a longer retroactivity could be an incentive to provide incorrect information for the purpose of receiving survivors' aid. Furthermore, it has not been verified that the information provided by persons has indeed been accurate. Cheating should never pay off. It should always pay to provide accurate information. In addition to this, there is also a clear point in harmonising the regulatory framework for survivor's support with what is already in force for the maintenance aid. There is, of course, also a cost aspect to this. In their joint assessment, Försäkringskassan and the Pensions Agency also suggested that it should be investigated whether survivors' benefits should not be paid when a person lives in family homes, assisted housing or HVB homes. Here, too, the authorities compare with the rules that already apply to the maintenance allowance, which is therefore not paid if a child is cared for in family homes, assisted housing or HVB homes. The Alliance thinks this is a wise attitude. In the Ministry letter, it is only briefly touched upon. However, it is noted that the Ministry of Social Affairs has already received requests from municipalities for clarifications, highlighting in particular the problem that children have been granted this support while the municipality is responsible for the care of the child as a whole, which can therefore lead to the State and the municipality paying out funds for the same thing twice. This is not just a waste of tax money; it is also wrong in principle. The Alliance parties believe that the above problem description needs a quick response and that the government must therefore proceed with this analysis as soon as possible and investigate whether survivors' benefits should not be paid when the child lives in family homes, assisted housing or HVB homes. The Alliance has therefore formulated a joint motion that the retroactivity should change to a maximum of one month before the application month and to investigate what should apply when the child lives at HVB homes, for example. I am pleased that the motion has been supported by a majority in committee. There is also another motion from the Swedish Democrats with some the same meaning. Of course, it is also a good thing that the Red-Green parties have chosen to join the Alliance's accompanying motion, which means that we are now being announced on these important points. Of course, it would have been even better if the red-green parties had chosen to present a product in this direction from the outset. Then a change on the points I am pointing out could have taken place earlier than is now the case. Now the ball is sent back to the government, which will then come back with new legislation. On the whole, however, it is to be welcomed that the Red-Green parties have chosen to join the Alliance's policy.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-26	Madam President, I would like We are debating rules on survivors' payments today. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee approves the motion by the Alliance and by the SD for a declaration that the retroactiveity of survivor's aid which requires the application should be the same as that for maintenance aid, namely one month. However, the government's proposal for a six-month retroactiveity instead of, as before, two years is, in the Committee's view, a step in the right direction. For those who are registered in Sweden today, as has been said earlier, an orphan's pension and survivor's allowance can be paid without application. The government's proposal and the committee's announcement therefore do not concern these cases. In a report, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency have proposed a study aimed at ensuring that survivors' benefits are not paid if the child lives in family homes, assisted housing or HVB homes. In these cases, the child's livelihood is provided by the municipality. The Swedish Democrats, together with the rest of the committee, have supported the view in the Alliance's motion that the issue needs to be investigated and that there is therefore reason to set up an investigation with the task of considering whether survivors' support should be given to children living in HVB homes or similar homes. Madam President, I would like In addition, in our special opinion in the report, we verigedemocrats have made general criticism of the exact form of survivor's allowance in cases where an application is required, i.e. in the case of children whose parents are supposed to have died in other countries. We have suggestions on how we want the whole regulatory framework to be reviewed and tightened up. We are, of course, in favour of the basic idea of survivor's support when it works in a legally secure way and fulfills its purpose of creating financial security for children who live in Sweden and lost their parents and thus the livelihood of their parents. However, the way it has worked so far has been far too legal uncertainty, and I believe that the fundamental aim has been abandoned. In order to provide a little background, the Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan and the Pensions Agency to jointly map how newly arrived girls and boys, whose parents are either deceased or missing, are seeking and receiving maintenance support and survivors' support. The reason for the assessment, which is also stated in the bill, is that the applications for survivor's support have increased in recent years due to more newly arrived children whose one or both parents are missing, and the change of practice since spring 2014 which means that certificates from other countries are no longer an absolute requirement for the granting of survivor's support. To be clear: it is therefore the case today that an asylum seeker's unaccompanied minor can declare that his parents have died in the former home country and thus receive survivors' benefits. This was the case in the past two years retroactively and now six months. We now hope that the government will respond to the committee's announcement that retroactivity will be one month and thus equal to maintenance support. However, a certificate proving the accuracy of the data is not required today. All that is needed is an application with information that you leave on your honour. Is there really anyone in this House who truly believes that this is a system of legal certainty? Madam President, I would like In any case, before 2014, the authority requested an investigation into kinship and death certificates, but it is something that has been removed. We believe that the government should set up an investigation to reform survivors' support so that it becomes legally secure and sustainable. We Swedish democrats believe that the survivor's allowance should primarily be linked to children who reside in Sweden and hold citizenship in Sweden or in another EU/EEA country and that the parent to whom the survivor's allowance is linked should have Swedish citizenship or EU/EEA citizenship or be resident in Sweden at the time of death or disappearance. If it is found that someone has deliberately stated incorrect information, for example if a parent who is presumed to be deceased later comes to Sweden as a relative, the person in question should be liable for repayment. Madam President, I would like In the first place, we mean, as I said, that the support should be linked to citizenship as described above. In the second place, we believe that the requirements for supporting documents that existed before 2014 with related investigations and death certificates should at least be reintroduced. It is also a step in the right direction that, as the committee proposes, survivors' payments should be provided to those living in family homes, assisted housing and HVB homes. Madam President, I would like Of course, we do not mean that vulnerable children who have lost their parents in other countries should be left in a financially vulnerable situation. According to the bill, survivors' allowance is intended to ensure a minimum level of protection for a child in the event of a parent's death, i.e. to guarantee a minimum reasonable standard of living. At the same time, the proposal shows that children affected by survivors' benefits, where the application is required, often already have care and support arranged through the social services. Therefore, the survivor's aid has not been necessary to satisfy their basic livelihoods. We therefore believe that the objective of survivor's support can be achieved with other types of support for people who have lost their parents in other countries.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-40	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal that we are going to discuss today is a remarkable one, in which selected parts of the so-called access investigation have been extracted, seasoned with some target images of other investigations that are not even referred to and garned all with some in the context of aparta issues relating to university boards. In short, this will be a strange soup. The fact that almost all the proposals land in what is already in force does not make things any better. Nor will it be better for the only new proposal on what should apply to basic eligibility in practice to be seen by the government's own expert authorities UHR and UKÄ, i.e. the Swedish Council for Higher Education and the University Chancellor's Office, on the grounds that the proposal creates a lack of clarity about what applies. It becomes somewhat parody, because it was just more clarity that the government said was the purpose of the bill. Talk about a red-green mess! In order for you to better understand my disappointment at the Government's proposal: let me briefly present the sharp proposals that exist, so that you can make your own assessment. The sharp proposals are five. Firstly, it says that applicants at basic level should have the necessary skills to be able to take advantage of higher education. The skills that apply are not clear, but one should investigate it. My question to the government is, why make it so complicated? At the same time, 98 per cent of those applying for university or higher education are believed to have grades from upper secondary education or equivalent. For the others, there is already the possibility of having their real competence assessed, which the government has also commissioned UHR to review the forms for. When I said earlier that the government's own expert authorities were afraid of the lack of clarity in the new proposals, it is in this particular area that they reject because it may lead to greater ambiguity. Secondly, the government says that the requirements for special eligibility for access to certain education should be absolutely necessary for the student to be able to benefit from the education. But this too is already the case. This tests the UHR, so why in the name of peace make it so complicated, the government? The third proposal is to select if there are many applicants for a training course competing for few places. It is said that at least one third of the seats should be allocated according to grades and results on the university test, while a maximum of one third of the seats should be allocated according to the selection criteria decided by the individual university. But this also applies today. I say a third time: why make it so complicated, the government? A fourth proposal is to lift the so-called parliamentary bonds. These are the decisions concerning issues such as access, eligibility and selection for higher education. In concrete terms, this means that the government in this way makes it difficult for the Riksdag to take a position on certain issues. When it comes to the question of lifting parliamentary bonds, we do not see any justification for why the government wants to remove this or why this is important. In the past, all the years of university politics have been discussed and debated, on the contrary, there has been an understanding that the Riksdag also has an interest in issues relating to access, eligibility and selection for higher education. Why have they thought so? Because the activities of higher education institutions are so important to the country and because they are tax-funded. This is something with which we sympathise. I would like to remind the committee of how much discussion and debate there was and how much it involved us Members of Parliament when, for example, the issue of the write-down of IB students' grades was raised. This is another issue that will pass at another level. Finally, there is a fifth proposal. This aims to repeal a law clause that no longer matters, as it refers to a law that disappeared on 1 July 2017. These are the proposals we are debating today. I find it remarkable. It is remarkably thin in the eyes of the Moderates. Let us say that we had expected more from the government on this important issue, which concerns how access to a university of lifelong learning will continue. The question is well how we can ultimately assess informal merits and how we should put them in relation to the formal qualifications that exist. That is where we would like the government to have put more focus. Finally, I would like to say that we Moderates expect that the work of higher education institutions in assessing what we call real competence will have increased importance in the future. We therefore hope that the mission given by the Government to UHR, to be completed in 2018, will provide the support that universities need for this purpose. Another question is how we make this particular route to the university – that you have the right to have your real competence assessed – better known among prospective students. We think that the government should have focused on this instead. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 1, which means that I am in favour of rejecting the proposal in the report.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-57	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our reservations 4 and 6. It is always interesting to have proposals that relate to current areas within the university – things like admission and the university's governance. I think you can break things out of various investigations if you want to; there is nothing wrong with doing that. Unfortunately, however, we cannot endorse part of this proposal. Instead, we have some proposals of our own, which we think are better. It is reasonable that the old parliamentary bonds should eventually cease and be transferred to the government's legal competence; surely no one knows which government will exercise this legal competence after the elections. There are things that the government – which government it is now – should decide on through its regulatory letters; that's how it is. However, we believe that questions concerning the admission system should not fall under the government's legal competence but should be decided by the Riksdag in democratic order. These issues are very important, and they are crucial for the quality of many training courses in the future. We think that this has such importance that it should be decided by the Riksdag. When it comes to the proposal that eligibility for higher education should take place through competences, which the previous speaker was a bit interested in, the idea is that more people with different backgrounds should be able to apply to the university. That's all right, but we want the basics to be eligible for the university to be the usual ones. You need a high school education for admission to the university. For many courses you need special eligibility to complete the studies, as the government points out. Our view is that it is not possible to obtain this knowledge by any means other than by attending upper secondary school education. You cannot acquire the knowledge you need in mathematics, physics and biology in other ways than by studying the knowledge, and this is usually done through upper secondary school studies in Sweden or abroad. Possible would be a test that shows that you have the same knowledge without having completed upper secondary school studies, although that is not what the bill is about. In addition, we have problems with cheating now on our exams, such as the university exam, so we should also be careful about that. The admission system is a delicate issue where different groups are affected by any change in this. We believe that the system must be changed to be theoretically harmonious in its design. We must relate to the reality of the drafting of admission rules. That is why we want to reduce the proportion taken through the university test to mainly teacher training. It may also involve more education in the future. We want the Higher Education Act to be amended so that the higher education institutions can take in one fifth via the higher education test, if they so wish. Then we are thinking primarily of teacher training. As we write in our motion, only a small change in one paragraph is needed to change this. The Government of Hellmark Knutsson has pointed out the problem that too many people are mainly admitted to teacher education via the university test. Well, then let's fix the problem. We have a problem. Why not fix it? What is mentioned a little vaguely in the bill on basic year training – I think it was an interesting section, although it was mostly bread text without sharp proposals – is that in future, we want more flexible rules for admission to basic year training. So I am a little worried here and hope that it does not lead to a proposal to abolish all sensible requirements for admission to this training. There is a worrying tendency for us to reduce demands more and more across the board, and I think that is the wrong way to go. Otherwise, we think this basic year training is a great thing. I read a little bit about it in the run-up to this debate. It has been concluded that it increases the proportion of women in science education – great. It gives migrants a chance to get into sensible higher education courses – great. I think we should protect this with basic year training. It seems like a great thing, and then we should be very careful with more flexible rules, I think. That's a dangerous way to go. Finally, the university's governance, which is truly a delicate but nonetheless important issue. There is a part of the bill on this. As far as the size of the boards is concerned, we think that universities should have the same size of the board as they do today – if I remember correctly, there are 15 members. You should be able to do that if you want to call yourself a university. Then other higher education institutions can have a smaller board; that's all right. I have gone a little deeper on the question of the composition of the board. The fact that a university's vice-chancellor cannot be the chairman of the board, as pointed out in the bill, is self-evident. We also understand that it would be problematic if the Chairman of the Board came from his own university. I've been into this before, but on this issue I've changed my mind. I can change, despite my age. After all, there must be a limit to how many chairs the same end can sit on. And above all, as it says in the bill, there must be sensible decision-making. On the other hand, we want to safeguard academic values when it comes to the governance of higher education institutions. I'm a little worried that Peje Emilsson copies will sit down as Chairman of the Board. I don't think that would be good. We need to protect academic values. There is a worrying development in which new public management has taken over too much. I think it is time to reverse that trend. Then it is appropriate to start thinking about the governance of the higher education institutions and how it should be done in the best way. Proposals on this will come in the future, and this is a matter of great urgency for the future.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-73	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. I also agree with much of the criticism made by Betty Malmberg of the Moderates. The Center Party's view is that it should be a simple and transparent system for admission to higher education, so that early in life you can know what is expected of you in order to reach the dream education that you are aiming for. But even if later in life you change your mind – change course or decide to educate or further educate yourself – you should have the right conditions to go to higher education. The access system must be simple. It must also be easy for prospective students to know what to expect from the studies they choose with well-informed study choices in terms of, among other things, the quality of the education, work relationship and also previous students' opinions. The latter has chosen not to work on at all during the term of office, and as far as the access system is concerned, I find a disappointment at the proposal that is being put forward. The access investigation, on which the debate we are having today is based, unfortunately the government does not choose to go further in several important respects, which is unfortunate. It is a thin proposal that is on Parliament's table and being dealt with today, and it does not take the holistic approach that would be needed to have a more legally secure and transparent access system in higher education. The only change is actually the introduction of proficiency tests and that the basic competence should be expressed in competences. You make the change without concretizing it. Already today, those who lack, in whole or in part, the formal prior knowledge of one or more courses can apply to have their skills tested. The government does not explain the difference between these roads and does not respond to the criticism that comes from authorities, including the Office of the University Chancellor, that the proposal for the necessary competences creates a lack of clarity in relation to other legislation. Madam President, I would like The Center Party also finds it unfortunate that the government chooses not to proceed with the proposal to change the selection rules. It is written in the bill that it will continue to be a third that is assumed on the basis of the university test, a third based on grades and a third that the higher education institutions themselves may decide on. As far as the Center Party is concerned, there are important principles in this section. We believe it is important to consolidate that grades should be the main route for those seeking higher education and should therefore be given greater importance. The access investigation also proposed to change the selection criteria so that instead of, as is currently the case, a third is taken through university tests, it should be at least 15%. We think that this is the right direction to consolidate the grades but also to create the conditions for higher education institutions to use the selection criteria that they themselves find appropriate for the education they offer the students. It would strengthen the autonomy of higher education institutions to get that prerequisite. It would reward completed studies at both upper secondary school and komvux while increasing the opportunity for alternative selection criteria and for a better match between student and working life, which is so extremely important given the current situation with the lack of matching with the labour market. There are several good examples today. I would like the government to have had a more successful approach in this area and to have made possible alternative admissions. For example, Lund University has admission to law education via an extended legal review course to reward those students who are motivated to study law education. Madam President, I would like In Parliament, we must always ask ourselves whether the proposals put on Parliament's table solve the problems we see, whether they create new problems or whether they are ineffective. Unfortunately, my assessment is that it is one of the latter two that the proposal for a new access system is about. It is an urgent problem that we do not solve the problems that actually exist. This is very unfortunate given the need for a more clear access system for higher education, so that early in life you know what you need to read in order to get into a particular education but also to be able to choose a new course in later life, to educate yourself or to further educate yourself.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-82	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Betty Malmberg and Fredrik Christensson said in their speeches and probably also with what Annika Eclund will say in her speech, although I do not know exactly what it will be, because the Alliance is quite united on this issue. A large part of our consensus is that we think higher education is very important. We are therefore surprised that the government has done no more in this area. There has been a lot of focus on quantity and more places, not least in teacher training, and less focus on quality and on the bill that is now on the table. It is astounding that we so rarely and with so little intensity discuss university politics, which is so crucial and important for our society and for young people who want to study further. They put quite a lot of time and effort into equipping themselves for the future and the labour market and in forming themselves. It is also important for society that we have well-educated people, because it determines our ability to compete in the long term in the tough global competition. Compared to the importance of higher education and higher education in society, it is astounding, as I said, how little political debate is about these issues. Today's News has a series of articles about teacher education, which is a crucial part of Swedish college. There we get insight into how the students themselves view the education and how the selection takes place, and it becomes clear that there has been more focus on quantity and more places than on who should be admitted and who is required to carry out the education. This points to the question that the bill is about: How do we decide who is going to attend an education? They should not only get into the education but also have the ability to implement it with high quality even if it places high demands. How do we ensure that education is successful and that it is done with high quality? It is important both for the individual student and for how society later becomes. It is therefore amazing that the bill says so little about what the government wants in this area. As several have been involved, the investigation behind the bill was much clearer than that proposal then landed in. It is quite difficult to predict what the government really wants, in addition to moving more power from the Riksdag to the government. These things are, of course, connected. If we are to have high quality, we must also have a clear idea of who should have access to various training courses and how the selection should take place if many people want to attend the training. Here we have a framework, but it is a framework that is not clear enough. Liberals have not unexpectedly landed that the university test should play a smaller role. A lot of evidence suggests that even the students feel the same way. That the government does not care very much about what the Liberals think is not surprising, so the government has landed that it will continue as now with a third grade, a third university exam and a third other. There are several reasons why the grades should be heavier. One is that good grades from comprehensive school and high school give a pretty good prediction of how to succeed in education. The second is that it sends an important signal to those in comprehensive school and high school that it is not a university test that they can do during or after high school that determines whether they can enter the university. In order to be well prepared for higher education, they must invest in primary and secondary schools. It is an important signal to the rest of the school system that the university builds on what you have with you from comprehensive school and high school and that it is important that you invest a lot there to be successful at the university. Therefore, we must also send the signal that the grades are more important than the university test as a selection basis. There must be other variants too. Not everything can be based on grades. You have to get another chance to come back later. There should be a university test and an opportunity to bring it in, but the grades from high school must weigh heavier. As Fredrik Christensson said: If you repent in the middle of life, how do you get into an education? Then komvux, university exams and other things can play a real role. Madam President, I would like I call for the approval of reservation 1 which is a joint alliance reservation. The Liberals are further concerned about how this should be tightened up, but I would mainly like to say that it is a pity that the government has not put more gunpowder on higher education policy. It is, of course, crucial for how Sweden will progress in the future and, above all, how it will go for the individual individuals who attend the university.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-95	Madam President, I would like Like my colleague Christer Nylander from the Liberals, I agree with Fredrik Christensson and Betty Malmberg. I also agree with Christer Nylander. I will therefore be extremely brief. I ask you to accept reservation 1. The Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, have chosen to call for rejection of the bill More paths to knowledge – a university of lifelong learning. It's for reasons we've already heard mentioned. In essence, it is the very unclear wording that we are opposed to. These are also the ones that the consultation bodies have pointed out. One is the abolition of parliamentary ties in terms of access, eligibility and selection to higher education. It is very unclear in the proposal what the consequences of this will be. Our second point concerns the vague wording of the need for the necessary skills to be able to benefit from training. Here too, heavy consultation bodies, such as the UKÄ, have pointed out that the proposal on the necessary competences creates uncertainty in relation to other legislation. We look forward to hearing the Minister for Higher Education respond to the views of the Alliance. As I said, I would like to support reservation 1.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-101	Madam President, I would like When I heard the four alliance parties, I thought of the ram, trip, stair, roll. Betty Malmberg was most dismal in her description of government policy. Education is a high priority for the government. Therefore, during this term of office, the government has provided significantly more budgetary resources for several important reforms in pre-school, comprehensive school, upper secondary school, adult education and polytechnics. Even in higher education and research, the government has carried out important reforms and invested significant amounts of budget – so I definitely disagree with Christer Nylander in his description of the government's higher education policy. More higher education places and improved quality are two such important priorities. Higher quality education is crucial to secure future jobs and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness in the long term. Higher education provides both men and women with increased security in the labour market and increased power to shape their own lives. Not least, higher education raises the level of education in our society and is thus a defence for our democracy. We are seeing today an increase in globalisation, a labour market with rapid technological development and an increasing demand for graduates. We also face a number of societal challenges, such as the climate challenge, the health challenge and digitalisation. Against this background, continued investment in knowledge and skills is needed to build a modern knowledge society with high-quality education and research. Therefore, we must continue to prioritise the development of the university. Many other countries are doing this, and from an international perspective we must not lag behind. The Government therefore prioritises efforts to promote good access to high-quality higher education throughout life, throughout the country and with an international perspective. It is in this light that we shall see the bill that we are now discussing, More paths to knowledge – a university for lifelong learning. The rules for access to higher education shall be so designed as to enable lifelong learning. That is why we are going to remove unnecessary barriers to access to higher education. The ambition must be that everyone who wants to study at the university should be given that opportunity. The purpose of this proposal is to realise this ambition. Access to higher education should therefore be clear, understandable and predictable. This cannot be said about the current system. The access system has been patched and fixed through several different decisions, but with this proposal we now have a transparent system, for the benefit of anyone who wants to apply for a higher education programme. The Government therefore proposes, as has been said earlier, that previous parliamentary bonds regarding access, eligibility and selection for higher education should be lifted. Instead, the Riksdag will decide on a framework for rules on access to higher education. The Government therefore proposes the following: The applicant shall be required to have the necessary skills to be able to take up the education and training in order to qualify for basic higher education at basic level. In the case of special eligibility, the requirements required must be absolutely necessary for the student to be able to benefit from the education. When a selection is needed, the selection criteria should still be grades, results from the university test and selected selection criteria. We have heard earlier about the distribution to be made: at least one third of the places based on grades, at least one third of the places based on the university test and at most one third that the university itself decides. I think the Government's proposal is welcome. In fact, I do not think that very little. What is good should be kept, but when you reform you refine and improve what is not as good. This provides a more clear, understandable and predictable access system. And – this is an important point – it strengthens lifelong learning by opening up more pathways to higher education. This gives more people the opportunity for a second chance, and I think that is one of the main points of the bill. Madam President, I would like It is important to strengthen lifelong learning. Therefore, there should be access to higher education throughout the country and throughout life. Proximity to higher education is a prerequisite for broader recruitment and for more opportunities for education and skills development. In the old days, when I was young, it was enough to get educated at the university once in the beginning of my career, but that's not the way it is now. More will need to change the course or supplement with new knowledge. Therefore, there should be good opportunities to return to university or start higher education later in life in order to acquire new skills, deepen their knowledge or specialise. Digitalisation opens up new opportunities to strengthen lifelong learning. Universities and higher education institutions can and should play an active role in meeting both private and public employers' needs for continuing education and training, but also to meet individuals who want to gain new knowledge. This requires flexibility in both the range of training and forms of training, including part-time and distance training. Then we need a reformed access system that can evaluate skills achieved in slightly different ways. Therefore, the proposal of the proposal that basic qualifications should require the necessary skills in order to be able to take advantage of higher education is really good. It will continue to be the case that the vast majority of people receive these necessary skills through a secondary school degree or equivalent, but for those who, for various reasons, cannot present a completed upper secondary school degree, this opens up new opportunities. Here, for example, a qualification test could be a good and important tool for strengthening lifelong learning. The bill also announces a review of the provisions on eligibility for education at our higher education institutions and university-introducing education in order to adapt the provisions to current needs. This is something that has been called for by the sector and which will also strengthen the broader recruitment process. We need to create better conditions for strong and responsible universities. This proposal states that universities and colleges are a cornerstone of the construction of society. They will train for both today's and tomorrow's labour markets. At the same time, they should be an independent and critical reflective force in society, convey knowledge and conduct high-quality research. This requires that higher education institutions have a well-functioning governance with managements that have the right conditions to make strategic decisions. I therefore welcome the fact that the government in this bill makes the assessment that the chairman of the board of a university or college should not be allowed to be employed at the university. I also welcome the ongoing review of the possibility of smaller university boards. It's an important decision. It is also important to ensure that we have continued strong student influence. Madam President, I would like We need a reformed access system that is clear, understandable and predictable and that can give women and men, regardless of their background, equal access to higher education. We need access rules that open doors, not close them. We need more paths to knowledge, and we need to strengthen the university's role in lifelong learning. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-122	Madam President, I would like I always appreciate listening to Thomas Strand's speeches. Many times we agree on the broad guidelines in them, but this time I have to ask for an ounce of self-criticism in what he says. Thomas Strand says that this is the ultimate, clear path for more ways into the university, that we have finally got a transparent system in place and that the government's proposal is welcome. First of all, I would like to ask Thomas Strand to explain how this particular proposal makes the access system much more clear, since every proposal has already been implemented. In what way does Thomas Strand think that we now have a clear structure for access to the university? I share Thomas Strand's view that lifelong learning is, of course, a prerequisite. I also mentioned this in my speech. For the future, it is about how we can assess formal and informal qualifications. Today, there are students studying at MIT at a distance and then going up and doing their test at KTH. So this is already a reality today. That's a bit of what I'm wondering. How are we going to face the developments that are taking place in society? And what about those who choose to change in the middle of life? Today there is an opportunity for this. It's about getting your real skills assessed. Please, Thomas Strand, answer the question: Why does the government want to complicate this?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-127	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. When presenting a bill, it is important to see that you don't always have to break everything old or what works well. This proposal is based on the system we have today, but I think it refines and develops the system. Today's system has become very difficult to understand – it is difficult to see through and understand – because of the parliamentary bonds. When we met the investigation a few years ago, it was said that not many people understand the system in all its parts. That is why I think it would be good to lift these bonds. It is good if there is a clear gulf between what the government's task means and what Parliament's task means. Regardless of the government we have, it is important that the Riksdag makes decisions on the framework. Then the government will have to refine the system. It is therefore extremely important that we have a system that takes advantage of the good things that work today but that we can do better. I think, for example, that the necessary skills will open up for skills tests, which should now be further prepared. It can strengthen those with real competence who do not have a upper secondary school degree to be able to take a proficiency test. Then we must allow the processing process to take its course. However, that would be one way of clarifying it. Finally, I think that the bill gives a clear signal about giving people a second chance. It is clearly stated that if you do not have the exact upper secondary school degree or equivalent, it should be possible to obtain, for example, a qualification test for your competence that is necessary to be able to study at the university. This strengthens lifelong learning.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-132	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Strand, for the answers! I must say, however, that I am not becoming much wiser. What in this writing means that in the future we will know exactly what is going on? Today there is already an opportunity to assess real skills. The Government has been proactive and asked the Swedish Council for Higher Education to strengthen this opportunity at higher education institutions. Today it is more a matter of making it clear that the possibility exists, instead of making up a lot of other hocuspocus that no one has really asked for. Thomas Strand also says that the writings refine and develop the system. Again, I can't understand where. The important thing here would have been to discuss the report of the Access Investigation as a whole. When the report was presented, we moderates went off in a bad way. We found this exciting. It could have been about how much of the university exams should be included in the selection context. It could also have been about whether you can adjust the university test so that English-speaking people could have taken the test in English instead. This gave rise to new thoughts. We also need to reschedule to receive the crowd of new people who want to enter the university. But if this is nothing. The only thing we have been given is the same rules that are already in force today. When it comes to lifting parliamentary bonds, however, it is a way of depriving Parliament of an opportunity to think about issues that have been considered so important to Members of Parliament.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-137	Madam President, I would like I did not quite understand the beginning of Betty Malmberg's question. She said something like this, you're making up another hocuspocus. However, all the speeches by the representatives of the alliance parties have been that we are doing nothing. Then we couldn't have made up any other hocuspocus. We are reforming the system and keeping what we think is good. It's perfectly natural. Why should we change that? But we on the government side add things that we think make this better. I have said this before and will come back to it: I think that the proposal we have now makes us strengthen lifelong learning. We are giving a clear signal that if you do not have the formal roads – a clear upper secondary school degree – there should be a second chance. The government is now opening up to prepare questions about skill tests, which I believe will strengthen this in an excellent way. However, we disagree on the issue of principle. What will the government decide on? What will the Riksdag decide on? Regardless of the government we have, I think it is a reasonable principle for Parliament to decide on the framework. Then, in its regulation work, the government will have to continue working on the details. Why should we abandon such a principle? Because of the parliamentary bonds, we have today had a system that is very difficult to understand. You patch and fix, and in the end, hardly anyone understands how it works. That is why I think it is good if we decide to lift parliamentary bonds. We will make decisions on the framework, then the government will have to go further in the regulation work on how to develop the system.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-141	Madam President, I would like To many, developing and taking new steps in their career is a dream, a desire and a goal. Some time ago I met an old friend who has worked as an electrician in industry for many years. He went to upper secondary school and does not have complete university skills. But he has during all the years completed skills training at work. His job also includes working with people abroad. That's why he's had to learn English properly. Now the children have grown up, and he feels that it would work to further train himself as an electrical engineer. This he has been thinking for a long time, but he lacks the grades needed to get into college. More paths to knowledge and a university of lifelong learning is an important step for Kim to become an electrical engineer in a time efficient way. Getting your knowledge validated and being able to credit it is what determines whether it will be possible for Kim to study. The alternative for him is to stay on the floor. Many industries are screaming for the right skills. With more opportunities to re-school in the middle of life, we create a more flexible labour market that can provide employers with the knowledge they need. A way into the university is now being opened to those professionals who do not have a complete upper secondary school degree but who have gained the knowledge required for higher education in their work. Basic eligibility for higher education at primary level shall be subject to the applicant possessing the necessary competences in order to be able to benefit from such training. Eva Nordmark, chairman of TCO, expresses this in a slightly simpler way: At the same time, the university test is maintained as a way for professionals to apply to the university's most attractive courses. Madam President, I would like This represents a positive change for the country's higher education institutions and universities. Higher education institutions will have more opportunities to determine which selection methods and specific eligibilitys are appropriate for their training. Large training courses in shortage professions, mainly for prospective engineers and teachers, have problems with many not completing the training. Those who have been admitted through the university exam tend to a greater extent to drop out of their studies. The world has changed rapidly, and there are many different paths to knowledge today. Open university and free learning are a few examples of how to acquire education from other countries in your home. Therefore, more ways are needed to assess the real skills needed to succeed in both education and work. The Green Party believes in peoples' education and lifelong learning. As has been said, society and industry benefit from the fact that the labour force is not static but can develop according to skills needs. Many of us haven't gone straight through life. The choice that was right when it was made after high school can be revalued several times through life. New challenges are at hand. When I was a kid, they called a person who changed jobs as a bouncy girl. Today it is an asset when the CV is to be written. Perhaps it is also the case that the body or the soul declines, so that you need to change the course to avoid sick leave. Lifelong learning benefits everyone. That is why I am pleased to support the proposal and reject all reservations.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-150	Madam President, I would like I won't be long here in the speaker's chair. But I get confused. Do you have control of what real competence really means? Once again, we hear from the pulpit of the government this about how everything suddenly becomes so transparent. We'll hear about Kim, who wants to be an electrical engineer. All of a sudden, you get new ways into college that you haven't had before. But what is it that gives him these new ways into college? I would like to ask Elisabet Knutsson that. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Council for Higher Education to strengthen the role of higher education institutions in assessing real competence, so that it is done more often and to a greater extent. In addition to this, what is causing us to suddenly have this clear system that enables everyone to enter? It sounds like you haven't had that condition in the past, but that's not true.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-151	Madam President, I would like If parliamentary union disappears, every university and university through government regulations will have more opportunities to obtain what students need for their education. As that opportunity increases, it will also become less complicated. It is as Thomas Strand says: There is a lot that is good and that already exists. But this needs to be relaxed, so that each institution has the opportunity to take in its students more accurately. This makes it easier for Kim, for example, to bring in the skills he has acquired.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-152	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Knutsson for his reply. But the fact is that the selection is already done so that at least one third is taken on grades, at least one third on university exams and a maximum of one third on the basis of the university's selection. That is already the case today. The government is not adding anything new in this area. I think it would have been more important if we could have been able to communicate together that we think that the access rules that apply today are good and that we will then come back when we take a holistic approach to the Access Investigation. We have many important issues to discuss in the future, but we need to know what actually applies and to what extent this brings something new. That is where our criticism lies, because it does not add anything new.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-154	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Betty Malmberg that there are many important issues to discuss in the future. After all, it is not just this real competence thing that should be tested. One must also ask: What is a rating worth? How do we ensure that the grades work? There is so much talk about that it is so important to have a high school diploma to get into the university, but it turns out that many who get high grades from high school do not pass the university anyway. The grades are a very blunt tool to meet the education. And what about the college exams? They leak, people cheat and so on. Sure, Betty Malmberg – we have a lot of important issues to discuss in the future!
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-155	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members of Parliament! As we have heard here before, the university of the government is an entirely supporting foundation in our community building. It has guided us from day one in the clear path that we have made Sweden compete with knowledge, innovation and competence. The basis for this is high-quality education and research. Instead of Parliament deciding on lower salaries and massive tax cuts, we will do so, which is the alternative proposed. I can tell you today that it is really the path that lies ahead for us. That is why we continue to invest in both education and research, and that is why we want to continue to develop the university as our society changes. It is not possible to sit back. Sweden is part of an increasingly global world, with a labour market characterised by rapid technological development and rising demand for higher education graduates, as well as for professionals. Today, there are 100,000 vacancies that cannot be filled because the right skills are not found. At the same time, we are facing a number of societal challenges, just as we heard from Thomas Strand: the health challenge, the climate challenge and digitalisation. What really cuts right through our society right now is digitalisation and AI. We see how old professions disappear while completely new ones are created. We are also seeing changes in the professions that exist. We see how research and innovation as well as business and public services are changing faster and faster. This makes demands. We need to equip people and communities for this, so that people can feel safe, but also so that opportunities are created for further education – opportunities that we must seize in order to create the college of the future. Based on Sweden's position as a knowledge nation, we have a good starting position. Now the way forward is to continue investing and to enable more people than today to study further and contribute to our common society. But for that to be possible, our education system also needs to continue to be of high quality and is in line with time, and then the university needs to be developed. Just as major reforms were carried out in the 20th century in order for more people to be educated, we need to do more for the needs of the 2020s. I have a clear target. That applies to the three themes that we have already heard about here today. It is about ensuring good access to quality education for people throughout the country, throughout their lives and for the whole world. To make this possible, the proposal we are debating today is an essential building block. Through the bill, we propose a new framework for the way into the university and put a clear focus on competence. We see that those who apply to the university must have the skills needed to be able to take in and complete their education regardless of how that competence has been acquired. It replaces old regulations that have been patched and fixed for too long. Our new proposal makes it clear what it takes to study at the university, whether you have attended high school and want to study at the university or if you later in life need or want to study at the university. We see that skills should be valued and taken advantage of, and that includes skills acquired through working life. The bill therefore lays the foundations for introducing a new national test to evaluate people's skills. We see that the experience and knowledge of a long working life is something valuable that should be valued. This needs to be done. The skills needs of industry and well-being mean that we must ensure that people are able to educate themselves and further educate themselves. We cannot waste people's skills. We need to make use of it when we have 100,000 job vacancies and a world that is changing faster and faster by digitalisation. More people will need to change their course or build on new skills throughout their working lives. That is why people must have greater opportunities to do so. We say that we need to be able to create opportunities for people to both grow and switch throughout their lives. This means that universities and higher education institutions must also change in line with these new needs. When I meet education ministers from other parts of the world, we are in complete agreement that the campus of the future will be filled not only with young people but with people of all ages. Then we also need modern rules for access to the university. In addition to the focus on competence, we also make clear demands. The new framework makes it clear that those entering an education should also have what is needed to be able to take on board and complete the education. It is good both for society and for individuals. We make it clear that certain training programmes, such as teacher training, may require special requirements to qualify. With the framework, we lay the foundations for, for example, introducing a special admission test for teacher students. Where we have problems with the throughput because there is too low competition for places and where we see that the university exam does not predict well how someone should pass a long education should be able to reduce the university exam's share of the selection for those courses. It's just so that more people with grades can get in. Overall, Sweden needs this bill to move the university forward and meet the needs that exist. I have noted that the bourgeois parties in this House will be calling for the whole bill to be rejected, and I regret that. Work experience should also be able to pay off. Experience from a long working life should play a major role. Everything else is extremely out-of-date and backward. My goal and that of the government is to create a college that meets the needs of the 2020s with access to education for people throughout the country and throughout their lives. We have worked hard during this term to add new resources to the university in terms of both educational places and research. It is also about special quality money for supplementary education for those with foreign education and to strengthen research in all of our higher education institutions and universities. This will now be another important step along the way. It will lay the foundations for further work. That's the way forward. Not low statutory low wages and massive tax cuts.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-173	Madam President, I would like The Government begins and concludes its speech with Sweden competing with competence and not low wages. This is very remarkable given that the government's policy is rather that we should compete with skills with low wages. Sweden is the country throughout the OECD and the West where education pay is the worst. But that's not what I was going to ask you. It is about clarity and a transparent access system. The Government says in its speech that it becomes more clear and transparent. At the same time, she says that you should open the possibility for higher education institutions to deviate from the selection criteria that exist with a third grade, a third university test and a third up to the higher education institution. It is open to making it possible to a greater extent, and the government also writes about it in its proposal. In what way will it become a more transparent and transparent system if the possibility of making exceptions to the system presented by the government is opened? I have spent a while reading about the policies of the Social Democrats when they were in opposition in 2014. They were pretty critical of the college exam. They pointed out that it has poor prognosis and, above all, benefited men in higher social groups, as they wrote. In what way does the government face it in the bill that is presented?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-176	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for your questions! It is important that those entering higher education have the skills to complete their education. A dropout is painful for the individual and also a waste of resources for society. That is why we need to take on board the knowledge that various studies have shown. Among other things, they have shown exactly what you say. For some long courses, the university test has a very poor prognosis ability. But the university exam has changed over time. Now we know it has better prognosis than before. Here I would like to say something about following what the investigator proposes to bring in even more via the rating selection. Now there are studies that show that the free school groups in particular are giving joy certificates. Students who come from free schools have much more difficulty in passing higher education than those who come from municipal schools where they are given more accurate grades. Here's a question about how you view it from the Center Party. You do not want to deal with the issue of free-school winnings, nor with the issue of the joy certificates, but see that we could simply increase intake without any problems. What risks do you see that people will choose even more often to go to free schools to get the grades required to get into their dream educations, to go ahead with those who fight in municipal high schools, and then not have the skills needed to complete a higher education?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-180	Madam President, I would like The government obviously wants to talk about anything other than what is presented in the bill. I fully understand that, because it is a very thin bill that is put on Parliament's table when it comes to access to higher education. You talk about free schools, low wages and so on. But this is a proposal on access to higher education. We have a clear view from the Center Party that you should benefit from having attended upper secondary school and that the university is the next step. That's why we want a larger share that is taken in through the grade group. We see that higher education institutions need to have strengthened autonomy, and we would therefore like to expand the group where the higher education institutions can decide for themselves which selection criteria apply for students to enter. The Government does not answer the question related to how it becomes more clear and transparent if you do as you write in the bill about being able to make exceptions to today's regulations on the university test and that the higher education institutions should adjust this. The teachers must therefore apply for a permit in order to have other selection groups. How does it become a more transparent access system for higher education?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-183	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Fredrik Christensson! The transparency of the framework is precisely that it is no longer patched and fixed, but it is clearly expressed what our demands are. We will also express the requirements for competence in order to be able to pass higher education. We do not make a valuation of where you have gained the skills, but they should be presented. Here we see major problems. You mentioned the college exam, and I mentioned the grade selection. If we cannot trust that the grades are fair, people will enter the university even though they lack the right skills. This is happening at the same time as you want to reject the proposal to be able to write a national qualification test in order to demonstrate in this way that you have the right skills to complete a higher education course. I see this as problematic, because it shows that we want to promote certain forms rather than just skills and requirements. That is the clarity and transparency of the proposal that is now before Parliament. We also open up more ways in that are based on both skills and requirements. I note that what you have been able to agree on is to be against the new and modern and to stick to the old. I regret that, because I really believe that we would have needed a broad consensus on the need to modernise the university in order to cope with skills provision and lifelong learning.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-188	Madam President, I would like The right skills – we absolutely agree on that! This is about an investment that an individual makes and an investment that a society makes. We also agree, as I have said before, that this is about acquiring new skills. That part must also be assessed. It is therefore so surprising that the government is now insisting that this is the new transparent system and that this is what access rules should look like. They already look like this! When you hear government representatives speaking in the speaker's chair, you somehow get the feeling that this is about some sort of rating of the government's higher education policy. That is not what we are discussing now. We discuss how to clarify for prospective students, as Elisabet's good friend who wanted to become an electrical engineer. What's he gonna do? And what is it that can make him step into college when he wants to change his mind in the middle of life? I am sorry to say this, but I cannot see to what extent these proposals and the proposal we are discussing now increase this possibility. If so, why is it that real skills cannot continue to be called real skills? That's what this is about, isn't it? Does it need to investigate new skills when it is said that in future 98 percent will apply for upper secondary school certificates or equivalent? It is therefore for the remaining 2% you should have a new type of competence. Why can it not just continue to be called real skills? How does the Minister see that the Office of the University Chancellor advises against introducing this, that the Board of Appeal advises against it and that the UHR is highly doubtful?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-193	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Betty Malmberg, for this question. As I put it, the new way is through the national competence test. That is what should measure these competences. The formulation of these competences will also help to validate what is required, for example, for specific competences. The national competence test is precisely for obtaining general competence. This will make it easier for those who have had vocational training from the past. Unfortunately, even vocational education and training will not in future be able to grant higher education qualifications after the Moderates changed their minds on this issue. Our proposal will mean that people will not be stopped just because they chose vocational training in high school. They have an opportunity to return to higher education. It may, as we hear, be because the individual himself wants to evolve. But it can also be because the job changes. Let us say that they have been trained as machine drivers today, and in ten years' time the machines may be completely self-driving. What is needed then is programmers. What you are saying is that these people should stay and be machine drivers if they do not want to attend long courses via Komvux. To want to cement the class society at a time when the labour market and the world are changing more and more rapidly is truly amazing. But I hope that you can change your mind when it comes to vocational training also providing basic university qualifications. If you fail to do so, I hope you will support the national proficiency test.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-197	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The fact that we want to cement a class society – it cuts into the soul to hear the Minister pronounce this when you know what we are actually doing today. We know how much exclusion is in the step between primary and secondary school. We know how many people cannot complete their upper secondary education, and we know how many of them on professional programmes do not. We want to give them a chance. Why should we close this door to them? It is also the case that the engine driver already has every opportunity today to take the step towards what he or she wants to achieve. I went to Komvux myself. I studied social sciences and got to supplement to get special eligibility. This opportunity existed at the time, in the last millennium, and it exists even today. No one's closed any doors. I strongly defend myself against the image that the Minister paints. I have to ask the question one more time. As far as the competence is concerned, the University Chancellor's Office rejects the proposal to introduce them. The UHR is extremely doubtful. These are the two authorities of the government. The Board of Appeal also advises against its introduction as it creates ambiguity. What causes the government to persevere and put forward precisely this as a proposal in a firm position?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-202	Madam President, I would like The way to get more people to pass high school is not to give them less knowledge, but to ensure that everyone gets the knowledge and support they need. So we need to invest more in school. It is more important than large, massive tax cuts. That is how we will get professional training. I wish you hadn't changed your mind about the competence in vocational education and training, Betty Malmberg. It would also have made it more attractive for more students to apply for vocational programmes. As I said, it is now a matter of harnessing the skills they acquire in their professional lives. Why should a machine driver who has the skills to pass higher education go to Komvux? That is precisely what the national competence test is for. Then it is measured, and you don't have to go to Komvux. Today it can be done through validation. But we know that it works differently well and takes a long time. A test like this will open the way in and lower the threshold for the electrician who wants to become an electrical engineer or the engineer who wants to become a programmer. And this is very important for us to meet that skill requirement. It is no coincidence that all employers' organisations are in favour of professional training. They see what the labour market needs in the future. I regret that the Alliance and the Moderates do not see how the labour market has changed. However, I look forward to your continuing support for the national competence test.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-208	Madam President, I would like Developing new effective and safe medicines is a heavy responsibility and a constant process for pharmaceutical companies. And the important goal is that these drugs can quickly come to needy patients. But conducting so-called clinical drug trials is a time-consuming and cumbersome process. It must be, of course, but in order to speed up the process, as far as possible, the EU has decided that it will be both simpler and faster to obtain authorisation for clinical trials within the Union. Under the new regulation, applications for authorisation for clinical trials on medicinal products should continue to be made via an EU-wide web portal. It is also said that a permit can be granted after a short processing period. In particular, it is believed that it will facilitate clinical drug trials in several EU countries. The Alliance parties – the Moderates, the Centers, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats – welcome the new EU regulation and the legitimate ambition that it means being able to speed up the development of new medicines. The government has already given certain assignments to trim a new, more efficient Swedish organisation. And that's good. For example, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the former regional ethical review boards have been commissioned to develop their forms of cooperation. However, very recently there have been some changes in the field of ethical review. And they've barely entered into force. It is important that the organisation works. We don't know if it does today. The government itself says in the bill that one cannot calculate the authorities' future workload. Therefore, the alliance parties think it is important that the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the new ethics review authority should be tasked with monitoring how the application of this work. A majority in the Committee on Education believes that this is unnecessary given that the European Commission will nevertheless review the regulation. And so it is. That's right. However, the regulation states that it should be done, after a certain period of time, and then within certain intervals. We think that is a very imprecise and vague formulation. It is also not possible to consider with certainty how the handling of permits works within Sweden. That is what we believe must be followed up, so that the new organisation put in the sea is appropriate when we look at the whole. The EU regulation must not in any way affect the thoroughness of either the scientific or ethical review. But it is also important that the Swedish handling process does not involve gold-plating and that it may result in the Swedish pharmaceutical industry being distributed. Madam President, I would like Referring to what I have said, on behalf of the Alliance Parties, the Moderates, the Centers, Liberals and Christian Democrats, I call for reservation 1.
i-KJ4xbwW4b33qNy5enj2SWt	Madam President, I would like A united committee supports the Government's proposal for a law with additional provisions on ethical review of the EU regulation on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. A united committee also supports the Government's proposal for a law amending the law on ethical review of research concerning people and the law amending the Act on Publicity and Confidentiality. What does this mean? The proposal we are now discussing is set out in the EU regulation on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in April 2014. EU Regulations shall be binding in their entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Member States are therefore obliged to ensure that there are national rules that allow an EU regulation to be applied in practice and have an impact. Additional national legislation may then be needed, as in this case. The EU Regulation aims to simplify the procedure for granting authorisations for clinical trials on medicinal products within the EU, in particular in the case of trials to be carried out in several Member States. It should also be noted that the EU Regulation provides protection for the individual. Under the EU Regulation, a clinical drug trial may only be carried out if the rights, safety, dignity and well-being of subjects are protected and given priority over all other interests. The clinical trial shall be designed to provide reliable and robust data. These clinical trials shall be subject to scientific and ethical review and approved in accordance with the EU Regulation. This means briefly that the ethics review authority that will be established on 1 January 2019 will carry out the ethical review of applications for authorisation for clinical trials on medicinal products. The ethical review shall be based on the same provisions as for the ethical review of research and shall be presented in an opinion. The opinion shall be decided by the new Ethics Review Authority and submitted to the Swedish Medical Products Agency. It should include an assessment of whether an application for authorisation to conduct clinical trials should be granted, granted under certain conditions or rejected. On all this, we agree in committee. And that's good. But the four alliance parties have a reservation which I think is a little bit to break in open doors. In their reservation, they state that the Government should also give the new Ethical Review Authority and the Swedish Medical Products Agency a clear mandate to follow up the application of the EU regulation and ensure that the new handling of clinical trial authorisations as a whole is also appropriate. It should then be noted that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Regional Ethics Review Boards to jointly develop structures and forms of cooperation to ensure that decisions on the authorisation of clinical trials of medicinal products on humans can be made in accordance with the procedures set out in the EU Regulation, as the authorities have also done. In addition, a trial is currently being carried out within the said authorities, where cases are dealt with in accordance with a regime which is similar to that which will apply under the provisions of the EU Regulation. The process will be facilitated by bringing together all ethical review within the new Ethics Review Authority, as the larger organisation can work more flexibly. To this it should be said, as the previous speaker also referred, that the European Commission will regularly review the EU regulation. The Commission shall submit a report on the application of this Regulation to the European Parliament and the Council after a certain period, and within certain periods thereafter. Finally, it is quite obvious that the government is following the work of the authorities and taking note of any signals that implementation would not function as intended. In addition, state authorities have their own quality assurance systems for the purpose of reviewing their activities. I therefore think that this reservation is a bit tricky, but it may be so during an election year. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-224	Madam President, I would like I commend our reservations 1 and 2. The revised bill – there was a proposal earlier on the same subject – is clearly better – or less bad – than the first. Of course, there are great advantages in putting in early support efforts for students, so that they do not have to come unhelpful after the support efforts are put in place, where we agree with the government. Now we have just decided on compulsory preschool class. It has not yet been implemented, nor has it entered into force. Then maybe we should wait to talk about support measures before we even have a compulsory preschool class in place. We don't even know what students are expected to achieve in this new form of school. My idea was that the preschool class should be, at least in part, a playful entrance to schoolwork. To start talking about support efforts here and involving special educators is too early, we think. But care should be taken to ensure that there is calmness and study in the preschool class. It's probably the most effective thing we can do for these kids. Our main objection to the report is that there are already provisions for special support and that this means double regulation, at least to a certain extent. Today, the Education Act already states that urgent action should be taken if necessary. Action programmes are already in place and specific support is already provided for today. The tools shall be in place. Then why isn't it working? Perhaps we should look at why it does not work before we come up with new reforms and proposals. What differs from current legislation is possibly consultation of specialist teachers as well as national mapping material. We have no objection to a national mapping material being produced, but there would be no need for a proposal for that. In the case of specialist teachers, there is a risk of draining these resources from higher grades to lower. Of course, in some cases it may be justified, but it can go far too far. There is currently a shortage of specialist teachers and educators, as the consultation bodies pointed out. This makes the whole proposal problematic, we believe. Despite the government's assurances and adjustment of the pending proposals, we believe that there is a great risk of detailed regulation and an increased administrative burden on school staff. We need to start trusting the school staff and teachers and trust them to do their job.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-233	Madam President, I would like Sweden has previously had one of the most equal and high-performance school systems in the world. That's where we have to go again. That, of course, should also be our future. Learning to read, write and count is an obvious part of building a strong society. Reading, writing and counting is crucial in a modern welfare society. Without basic knowledge, students cannot reach the school's knowledge goals and they then go a much tougher journey to meet in society or on today's and the future labour market. The school will give all students the opportunity to succeed in school, and manage it before small failures have grown bigger. Not all students have the same conditions. Some students have broken the reading code even before they start school, while it takes longer for others. Some need the support of a good student assistant, others of a special teacher. Some students need support, pepping and tools to succeed in reading, to learn writing and to fix mathematics. Others need to be challenged with thicker books and more difficult maths. At school, no student should be left behind, but neither should he be held back. Madam President, I would like When we formed the government in 2014, it was after eight years of bourgeois school politics. The results of knowledge had fallen like a stone. More than one in four boys did not meet the basic requirements for reading comprehension in the PISA study, and the number of employees in school had decreased by 10,000. Jan Björklund had promised a new school law that would guarantee all students the right support at the right time. Unfortunately, this was not the case. Instead, pupils who had needed support for a long time were sent up in the Swedish school system, without receiving the support they needed to succeed. Swedish school has given by far the most special support in the ninth grade, which is often too late for students who have already fallen behind. Madam President, I would like Additional adaptations and special support must be introduced already in early years to prevent problems that can grow and for a long time make it more difficult for the individual student. It's one of the most important keys to school success. Research shows that early intervention plays a crucial role in successful schooling. In countries with high knowledge and an equal school system, such as Finland and Canada, the right support is provided whenever a teacher discovers that a student needs it. In Sweden, we have done the opposite – by far the most special support in the ninth grade. With the proposal we are now debating here, we are breaking with this failure. Let's give the right support on time. We will give teachers and principals the mandate and tools to put in special support when needed. We will strengthen the special pedagogic skills in schools, so that all students can get the support that the student needs to achieve school success. Mrs. Alman! The reading-write-count guarantee means that if there are indications that a student will not reach the knowledge goals, support actions should be deployed where they are needed. These support measures will then be followed up at the end of the preschool class and in primary school and handed over to the responsible teacher in the next year, which is often not done today. Through the reading-write-count guarantee, we ensure that all students who need support already from preschool class receive individually designed support measures. This legislation closes the gap that exists in the current school law. And now we are making a reality of what Jan Björklund promised to implement in 2005 but which he did not manage for eight years in government. The reading-write-count guarantee is important in itself. It clarifies the responsibilities and working methods of the school, so that all pupils have equal access to support and measures. It provides concrete tools for teachers to better and more equally put in the right support on time. It strengthens equivalence. It should not depend on which school you go to if you receive special support. The national mapping material is an important piece of the puzzle to ensure the equivalence of the preschool class across the country. It is important now that this autumn we make the preschool class mandatory for all six-year-olds. But the reading-write-count guarantee is also an important piece of the puzzle in a larger whole, a whole that is about turning the development in Swedish school and ensuring that the support comes earlier and becomes better so that the knowledge results are further raised. To this whole, the government's important efforts must be made to increase the number of special educators and teachers and to increase the number of school staff and the 300 new entry points with which special teacher and special education has been expanded. It is also about the 500 million a year that the government invests to increase the special pedagogy skills generally among teachers, something that several bourgeois parties have said no to, about the expanded and successful investment in the reading and mathematics lift and about the investment in student health of 200 million SEK per year. As I said, the reading-write-count guarantee is important in itself, but it presupposes that there is the right competence at school. This is precisely why the government's major efforts at more specialist teachers and educators and at special pedagogy skills among all teachers are important. We have to be able to do several things at once. The best school systems in the world have both more special teachers and more special educational tools for each trained teacher. That's where Sweden's going too. We're going to have one of the strongest school systems in the world again. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we are now clarifying the right to early support and pursuing the recommendations that the School Commission gave us politicians. I am pleased to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations. I welcome the fact that a broad majority in the committee has now agreed on proposals on how we follow up on this and ensure that the right to special support is realised in reality. Civility has long delayed and pushed down this proposal, with arguments such as reading-write-counting guarantee not really mean that all students are actually guaranteed to learn to read, write and count. That's absolutely true. Politicians can hardly make and keep such a promise. What we are now ensuring, however, is that all students in need of support are detected early and receive the efforts that teachers and staff with special pedagogic skills assess that they need to reach as far as possible in their learning. I think it is important to emphasise this rather than getting caught up in some kind of silly semantic discussion. Madam President, I would like Now another important piece of the puzzle is being put in place for Sweden to rebuild one of the most equal and high-performance school systems. More needs to be done. More investment needs to be made. More staff needs to be trained. But now that we guarantee that all students in need of support are discovered early and receive the support they need, we lay the foundations for continued increased knowledge and an equal school of knowledge where no one is left behind and no one is held back. To get through school, get a job, move away from home, start a family and live a good life shouldn't be a dream. It should be real – a good life for everyone. How we build a stronger society and a safer Sweden.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-250	Madam President, I would like Yes, the need for early support in Swedish schools is hardly a conflict area in this House and has probably never been so. Ensuring that students have the right support at the right time is not only sensible if you want to see good school outcomes. It is also the only reasonable allocation of resources. Putting problems in front of you and hoping that someone else will solve them for you is rarely socially profitable. This is something that, quite frankly, politicians should take more account of when designing their policies. Despite the fact that we have been discussing this for many years in this House and in the other assemblies that work with education policy in Sweden, we are not succeeding. The aid is too much too late. It is far too often the wrong support that is being put in place. You put in the support you have rather than the support you need. And there is a lack of follow-up as regards the support that is being put in place. Transfers between schools and school forms are a particular flaw. There we see that the aid is at its very worst. As a result, students are lagging behind and as early as seven, eight, nine and ten year olds they are growing a feeling of being betrayed by the adult world. The Alliance government made its efforts with a new school law, a restored special teacher training and clearer guidelines to ensure that the support comes earlier. The results are, quite frankly, not too good. In its review, the School Inspectorate notes that although schools work to ensure that they comply with the law, it goes far too slowly, and many schools lack the efforts. Mr President, I would like to A read-write-count guarantee could have been very good with clear checkpoints and a real guarantee that you can read before going on to grade 4. It would be perfectly possible to introduce it, but it has instead been replaced by vague promises of general action. It is a watering down that I do not believe will benefit the proposal. Unfortunately, the text breathes a feeling that it is more important to do something than that it actually becomes the right action. I am still worried that this will be a burdensome paper product for Swedish teachers. I am therefore pleased that the committee has gathered around the fact that this is something that needs to be carefully evaluated. I am also very pleased that we thus get a proper review of the implementation of the previous school law. There is a fundamental problem in this House and in parishes around Sweden: that we have a great deal of faith in our own importance and in political decisions and a constant underestimation of the work that teachers do in the classroom. The fact that we make political decisions that say, for example, that the school law guarantees that all students are entitled to support from day one does not mean that this is the case. That is why the evaluation is extremely important. I am pleased that the committee has been able to gather around it. Yet this proposal is half a step along the way. The government is doing what you can and is trying to find new ways forward to strengthen support for those students who need it early. The screening in the preschool class is extremely important in identifying which pupils need support measures. Basically, students need to be identified in order to ensure that the right students receive the right support. Of course we in the Moderates think it would be even better if the preschool class were part of primary school. Then we would already have the screening material, and we would also facilitate the handover. Mr President, I would like to The basis for putting in place the right support measures is to be able to identify the needs that exist. This requires that all teachers have the basic skills to identify and see the problems that students have. Therefore, basic NPF competence needs to be given throughout teacher training. Also, if you cannot identify, you cannot give the right support, nor can you recognise the limitation of your own competence and therefore put in place specific actions and measures when necessary. Mr President, I would like to It is good that we focus on early intervention. It contributes to this proposal. But we need even more focus on early knowledge in Swedish schools. It's about focus on making sure that all students learn to read, write and count. It's about making sure we get diagnostic tests at the early ages. It is a question of ensuring that we get follow-up on knowledge. It is a question of increased teaching time in primary school. And it's about us making sure that the support needed for all students to create a solid knowledge base to stand on so that they can cope with the rest of their schooling is there for everyone. It does not offer this proposal, but it has a narrower perspective. Unfortunately, this means that today we have a policy that risks cementing alienation and that Sweden will once again become a class society where parents' alienation is actually inherited by the children. This is the result when the rhetoric of the government is not really consistent with its policy. If we want to see a school that gives everyone basic knowledge and a school that gives everyone the opportunity to stand on their own feet, the knowledge mission must become clearer already in the primary school class. It does not solve this bill; it obviously requires a new government to solve such problems. Mr President, I look forward to coming back to that in the autumn.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-262	Mr President, I would like to This is a bill in which I know that there is broad support for the content, i.e. early intervention. We all know that it is of great importance that every child has the chance to start his or her journey of knowledge as early as possible and that they receive the support they need. I would like to thank Gustav Fridolin, who has not only presented the bill but also listened to the comments that came during the trip the matter has made up to today's date. I would not like to say that on behalf of the Alliance – and I hope that there is an understanding on the part of the Minister – it has been about trying to postpone the proposal in some unnecessary way, but rather it has been about how it can be improved in order for the support to really benefit the students. Let me use Ernkrans Matilda's imagery about puzzle pieces. That's how we get to see politics at all – that we need to piece together different pieces in different ways. I would like to return to the puzzle that was actually laid on the table when the Alliance Government took office in 2006. One can say that the puzzle consisted of 143 pieces, and it was in a way quite large pieces. It was about being able to mark which parts you needed to continue working on. There was management and control as an important part, and there was security and education, as well as early knowledge and early support. Let me therefore regret the fact that the previous government removed a piece of the puzzle, namely special teacher training and the importance of early support. We have now had the chance to reintroduce this, and I see that the current government is building on it. It was important to have the new school law, and I think that those of us who have sat a little longer in committee actually remember the meeting at the Ministry that the ministers called. They said: Now it is of great importance that a new school team is actually given the opportunity to get into place, and this is the way forward until we can have it in port. It was a strategically important mark, and it was important work to develop it. Then Matilda Ernkrans pointed out that there was a hole in the school law that is supposed to be clogged with this proposal, and I think it is important to see how we highlight and constantly improve the governance documents we have in different ways. I think it's a shame that you don't use the puzzle piece we now call compulsory preschool class and don't let it become a first part of elementary school. As Erik Bengtzboe pointed out in his speech, it would have been a chance to provide support even earlier. I regret the view the Swedish democrats seem to have when it comes to withdrawing special educators far too early. It is clear that it is extremely important for special skills to be provided in support of children, for example in the case of various forms of learning difficulties or some form of disability. This is also highlighted. In his speech, Erik Bengtzboe also mentioned the importance of the competence of teachers – all teachers – when it comes to all children's chances of good knowledge. When it comes to what different governments have done and not, I must once again comment on Matilda Ernkrans's speech. She mentioned that the knowledge has fallen like a stone and that the number of employees has decreased greatly. When you look at the teacher density, you see that there are not very big differences. Instead, it is very much about demography. Then you can think about where the employees are – is it with independent principals or municipal principals? I would therefore ask for a degree of honesty in the debate. It is clear that we are all concerned if the results of the knowledge are not going in the right direction, and now it is about strengthening these parts in different ways. That is why I am glad that we support this proposal. What I want to highlight, and which the Minister has also listened to, is not to increase the documentation for teachers and to ensure in different ways that it is actually those students who are in real need of support who get it. If you want to further measure all students' knowledge in different ways and increase that documentation, it is clear that there is a risk that you lose those students who have the greatest need for support. It's a very important part. The bill also highlights what you call the importance of confident governance, and it is clear that this imbalance can sometimes be felt. When we further regulate these parts and at the same time say that in this way we show confidence in the competence of teachers, it can give some different signals. Back to the puzzle: I am pleased that the Minister is taking part in the debate today, because a number of new pieces of the puzzle came out under the School Commission and in the parts that came out there. Last week, we discussed the assignments of school managers and so on, and it was probably another piece of the puzzle where it is important to highlight the responsibility of school leaders to actually comply with the school law in different ways. It was mentioned earlier in the debate that specialist teachers come in extremely late. Then you may also have to be a little critical of how the school was designed in the period before the previous alliance government, when it was actually about creating the conditions for students to be qualified for upper secondary school in three subjects. It is clear that you had to put in all the support you could, because the three subjects in particular would be as many students as possible. Then they entered upper secondary school and still couldn't handle it. The previous debate that has been here, about the Access Investigation and higher education, was also about students having the opportunity to pass the next step. As I did not participate in the previous debate, I just have to comment on the fact that, with regard to upper secondary school, vocational programmes and so on, it is possible today to enter university qualifications in all professional programmes – regardless of what is said in this speaker's chair. Actually, it is. I'm sorry that the Minister for Higher Education gives the picture that you can't do that. It is an important part, and it is about the possibility of making free choices. You can seize that opportunity and make a choice now and another choice later. In the debate, however, it sounds like we are closing doors because we would somehow like to do so. That saddens me, I have to say, that we cannot hold a higher level of debate in this House. Another of the 143 pieces of the puzzle that the Alliance government was working on is about teachers' skills, which is a very important part. I have mentioned the special teaching skills, but let us also be honest: what is now hailed as extremely important initiatives, such as the Matte Lift, was actually what happened during the alliance government. We have done many things that you can continue to work with and lift in different ways. The Minister previously had a colleague who often stood in the debate and said that we were running in the wrong direction, and I am glad that it is perhaps not really that rhetoric anymore. Instead, it is actually a question of screwing up certain questions. As Thomas Strand said earlier, the systems that exist and make changes in them are used to refine the whole thing in a good way. To conclude, Mr President, it is an important part of providing early support for all children – and the support they need. I hope that we will also be able to highlight this in various ways in the future tasks of the new school authorities, so that the quality review is highlighted in a completely different way than simply by compliance. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Education has listened. It is not just a matter of taking action, but it is also a matter of follow-up to ensure that they have delivered results. That is why we have such a great commitment to this, because it is about the knowledge of all children and students.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-277	Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes in this proposal, as the report states, that provisions should be included in the School Act for a guarantee of early support interventions in the pre-school class and primary school, special school and Sami school. The purpose of the guarantee is for a student in need of special support to receive early support designed according to his/her needs. I think this is important, and the Left Party supports the proposal as a whole. The Government is today invited by the Riksdag to carry out an analysis of the legislation that already exists when it comes to the right to special support and to follow-up on how the law is in practice complied with. The Left Party also believes that this is important. Basically, the reform is about creating a more equal and equal school. But that also requires more. It requires us to create a school where students of different backgrounds meet. We need to rebuild a cohesive and equal school. This requires, for example, that we look at the headship of the Swedish school. Is it appropriate to have 290 municipalities as principals of schools and lots of profit-making actors? Or should the state take greater overall responsibility over the school? It's important that we look at the school election system. Should we have a school election system that increases the housing segregation? Or should we have a system where all students can trust that the nearest school is also a good school? Should we have a system in which the Knowledge School and the International English School can put joy certificates on the students and make sure to get what they call a customer? Or should we have a school system where our tax money goes where it is intended, that is to the students and to an equal and cohesive school? I believe that we need to fundamentally change education policy. Sometimes a picture of Swedish school is painted as if it were in crisis. But the fact is that what is in crisis is Swedish education policy. Unfortunately, a majority in the Swedish Parliament today does not want to agree to the legislative changes proposed to create an equal and equal school. On 7 June, Parliament will have the chance to vote in favour of one of the measures that together with the reading-write-count guarantee and other reforms can create a more equal and equal school. It is about removing and limiting the prize hunt that is going on in the Swedish school today. However, the majority of the Swedish Parliament and the Swedish parliamentary parties will be defeated. Unlike the Swedish people, research, the profession, teachers, principals, students and parents, the majority in this House do not think it is important that our tax money goes where it is intended. On the contrary, they should go to a few owners with bank accounts placed in tax havens. I believe that we need a new policy for a coherent school. In addition to the read-write-count guarantee, in addition to the removal of the prize hunt, a government without bourgeois parties is required. That is what I will continue to fight for. Having said that, I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-286	Mr President, I would like to Robert Stenkvist began by saying that there is a risk of special teachers being drained from the higher grades and instead put into the lower ones. I would like to say that this is one of the aims of these issues. As there is a shortage of specialist teachers, it is important that they are deployed as early as possible. This is also likely to reduce the need for additional resources later in primary school. The more people who succeed early, the fewer will need special support later. This does not mean that the need for special support will disappear later, but it is likely that if we manage to provide support in the first grade, even better in the preschool class or during the ten-year primary school, fewer support will be needed later. This bill is now trying to deal with this main problem. I note that Matilda Ernkrans, chairman of the committee, tried to use the bill as a weapon against Jan Björklund. If this is the main weapon against Jan Björklund, it is still a pretty good fight against liberal school politics that the government parties are engaged in. There were also errors in the background description. The reason why we are where we are today, Mr President, is largely ideological in the 1980s and 1990s that there should be no special teaching groups. A student should be included as far as possible, and moving a student out of the classroom and giving this person the support of a specialist teacher is something to be avoided. It even went so far as to abolish special teacher training in the 1990s. That is what we are suffering today. This means that there are a quarter fewer special teachers in Swedish school than it would have been if the education had not been abolished. Liberals reintroduced it. It was a very ideological decision to abolish special teacher training. They did not want students to be moved out of the classroom and attend a special teaching group. That is what we are suffering today. There are too few special teachers because of that decision, and we still have to work on the ideological resistance to providing special support in the form of special teacher resources. This has meant that resources have been invested too late. In Sweden, compared to other countries, there are quite a lot of support efforts, but they are deployed later than others. Then you lose a lot. One loses the students' self-esteem above all; they feel that they have not managed to keep up with the others in the class because they have not received extra support. The ideological change that took place in the 1980s and 1990s in school policy has left quite a mark. It is not just a question of the special teacher training being phased out, but also that the municipalisation made the school more a welfare mission than a knowledge mission. Mr President, I would like to It was an important decision made by the Alliance government when special teacher training was re-introduced. But all the other things we did to get things right in Swedish school politics were also important. I noted that the Left Party representatives felt that we were conducting a school policy in crisis. This can be resolved in September, and I hope that I will receive a vote from the Left Party representatives in the Education Committee. Now this bill is on Parliament's table in a revised format – and I would like to thank the Government for the discussion we have had for a long time on the bill, not least the first proposal on the same subject that was later withdrawn. It has always been a discussion about the relationship between effect and bureaucracy. Does the proposal mean that we are giving too many new tasks to teachers, that there is too much administration and too much focus on taking note of what is being done and too little support? The worst outcome would be if a bill meant a lot of new bureaucracy but little impact in reality for the students. The best outcome would, of course, be if there were a lot of impact but a little bureaucracy. I believe and hope that we have managed to get a balance in the system that gives effect to students without that means extra administration for teachers. I hope it will show itself afterwards. That is why the Alliance is confident that the reform must be followed up so that there will be no more administration. Mr President, I would like to Basically, it is about ensuring that more people succeed in school, that we become blind to background, that parents' background does not play a big role in the students' results. That is why we need to deploy resources much earlier than today. If students who do not succeed are allowed to slip on in the school system without additional support, there is a risk that the social mobility we want will decrease and that class travel will be reduced. Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its work on the proposal, and I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-299	Mr President, I would like to I thought in these last months of this parliamentary term I would try to take the debates as many times as possible to show the differences between the parties that actually have the greatest ideological differences in education policy – although we can agree on certain things. I have a question for Christer Nylander. Christer Nylander tends to point out quite often that this government introduces reforms and measures that lead to more administration and that this government's policy is not good seen from what Christer Nylander values as good for the Swedish school, i.e. more control, more repressive measures and more of non-research policies. I just wonder how parallels can be drawn to, for example, the rating system, which you have been involved in changing. Although there is no research anywhere in the world that says that it leads to an improved or more equivalent school, there are now a number of schools that will introduce or have introduced grades from lower ages – from grade 6 we have since before. How can you draw parallels from it to the read-write-count guarantee? The Alliance has, of course, for quite a number of months made that proposal a long time ago. I simply wonder if Christer Nylander is self-critical. Have there been reforms that have been carried out during the time of the Alliance or that have been forced through by the Alliance during this government's time that have led to more unnecessary administration and to the abandonment of what research means to create an equal school?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-302	Mr President, I would like to This research thing is hard. There is probably not a lot of international research that says that the reading-write-count guarantee that is now being proposed is something that really gives effect. On the other hand, there is quite a lot of research that suggests that special support has an effect and that early support is good – perhaps even better than late support. In this way, there is research support for the proposal without there being any direct research into the very proposal that we are now considering. That's quite often the case. You can read research reports based on the context in which they are located. Some research is done in other countries. Sometimes the proven experience is based on. Sometimes it is research that exists in a certain context – in a certain time, in a particular country and so on. You can read the research that way and take part of the research that exists. Looking at proven experience, you can see that quite a lot indicates that grades are something that is often used in countries around us. With regard to administration, Mr President, I would like to say that there is a big difference between unnecessary administration and knowledge monitoring. In the reforms we carried out during the eight years of the alliance government in government power, we focused on knowledge monitoring, and knowledge monitoring, grading and testing are not unnecessary administration.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-305	Mr President, I would like to I find it quite exciting when Christer Nylander and the Liberals say two opposite things in one sentence. In this case, my question about Christer Nylander was self-critical of many of the measures imposed by the Alliance that have led to unnecessary, I said clearly, administration. In order to define what is unnecessary, it is in my opinion what does not lead to a more equal and equal school, what the profession does not agree with contributes to the development of Swedish school and what the research cannot say has no effect on improving Swedish school. What examples can we give in this category? Well, previous grades are one of those. It is absolutely not unclear. There is excellent research in this field. There is great research that shows that students get better knowledge and a better view of society in schools where students with different backgrounds meet. There is very good research that tells us that, for example, the hunting of profits has damaged the equivalence of Swedish schools and students' right to receive special support to gain the knowledge they need from an early age. All that I've mentioned now is you, Christer Nylander, for. You're in favour of having a school system that separates. You are in favour of having grades from previous ages despite the fact that it leads to less equivalence and more stress. You are in favour of having more national tests, which do not lead to improvements but which lead to more administration and stress for teachers. Christer Nylander is standing in the pulpit criticising the government for not having a policy that leads to a more equal and equal school. Can Christer Nylander really do it in an honest way, or is it just a choice game? I mean it's the latter.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-310	Mr President, I would like to On the question of whether I can do so honestly, the answer is yes. I can be self-critical, and I think the Alliance has been. We have also been quite open about the fact that, when we make reforms, we are prepared to reconsider those reforms if they do not work exactly as we planned in practice. We have also done so – we have changed the proposals and proposals we put forward during our time at the government. However, this does not mean that you cannot criticise others. If you do not have the ability to look in the mirror and think about what you yourself did wrong, then you may not be the right person to say that someone else did wrong. Since I and the Alliance are quite open about the fact that we made some mistakes when we were in government power, I think we have the right to say when others make mistakes. That's a little bit of a political thing to do. That may even be why we have politics and democracy – because we do not fully agree on what mistakes have been made and have not been made. That does not mean, Mr President, that I should not be allowed to say that I think that this government lacks a policy of greater equivalence. Daniel Riazat often uses big words. I noticed he said I was in favour of a school that is segregating. It is exactly the opposite, Mr President. I want a school that includes people who give everyone the same chance. Whoever comes from a home where the parents don't have much books in the bookcases, a home where the parents haven't studied, I want to give the same chance as everyone else. I don't want the parents' experiences and background to make sense of the students' results. Daniel Riazat has a different position. But that's precisely why I want more knowledge focus in Swedish school. That is precisely why I want a ten-year primary school, where we are investing a lot at the beginning. That is precisely why I want special support at school as early as possible. I don't want the parents' background to break through. That is also why, Mr President, I welcome the fact that there are free schools which invest a great deal in knowledge. I don't like free schools that misbehave, but I think it's good to have free schools that are doing well. We also need this diversity in the Swedish school system.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-315	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating one of the most important issues in relation to school, which is intended to ensure that all students are able to meet the knowledge objectives, namely early support measures for our students. Those of you who have had to listen to me in this Chamber for several years now have not been able to miss the fact that, like a parrot, I have repeated calls for early support and for support to be given by teachers with the right skills, such as specialist teachers and special educators. That is why we Christian Democrats are stubbornly pushing the issue of a special teacher's lift where you get paid while you are training. It is in order to provide schools with the necessary skills. The government stated only last week that the shortage of specialist teachers is still large and that many who work as a specialist teacher are not qualified. However, the government merely states that the situation of competence will continue to be critical in the next few years. I call for concrete proposals to remedy the situation. It does not help to establish guarantees when the basic problem is that the right skills do not exist to put in place measures and fulfil the guarantee that we are now going to decide on. Special teachers with different specialisations are in demand throughout the school system, and according to the Swedish National Agency for Education's forecast, at least 640 new special teachers are needed each year to meet the need. Last year, 448. A given explanation that we have heard about here is that the training for special teachers was discontinued for several years and had to be restarted by the Alliance government. Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes in the bill Reading, writing, counting that there are provisions in the School Act for a guarantee of early support interventions in the preschool class and primary school in comprehensive school, special school and co-school. The proposal is a partially revised and revised version after negotiations with us in the alliance parties. We saw in previous proposals that the documentation requirements would be high. The Alliance parties welcome the fact that the government has adjusted its proposal in that part. The Alliance parties also believe that there are already laws that clearly require early support efforts. The 2010 School Law clearly shows the pupil's right to special support when it is feared that the student will not reach the targets. This includes the requirement to establish an action programme and to notify the Vice-Chancellor and how the programme should then be linked to how the student should reach the curriculum and the knowledge goals. It also states that the action programme should be monitored and evaluated and who is responsible for doing so. The law also lays down requirements for development discussions and a written individual development plan, as well as requirements for access to pupil health, psychologist and special pedagogy skills. There is a risk here of double regulation of pupils' entitlement to support, as several consultation bodies have also pointed out. While the current legislation is quite comprehensive, however, we can see that it is clear that many students still do not meet the knowledge objectives at primary level and do not receive the support they would need. If this guarantee can clarify the right to support, it is welcome. Mr President, I would like to It is good that the students' level of knowledge is mapped early, but it is not the actual survey that is important, but the support – that it is really put in and then by properly trained staff, which I have been into before. I just want to lift a warning finger to condemn children far too soon. Children are different and must be allowed to be, and they develop at different rates. Someone has learned to read before they start preschool class; another cracks the reading code in autumn of year 2. The purpose of the mapping must therefore be to detect obvious difficulties in linguistic ability and logical thinking. Mr President, I would like to Given that legislation in this area is already comprehensive, while many students do not receive the support they need to achieve the objectives of reading, writing and mathematics, it is important that this legislation is followed up and evaluated in order to see if it is effective. Therefore, we in the Alliance want for two years to give the Swedish School Inspectorate a special mandate to focus on the school's work in terms of support and how to comply with the school law during their inspections. I support the committee's proposal.
i-Da9y7zbJvBZZZRGBYohEVC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to Parliament's Education Committee! In many ways, our lives are most affected by what happens in the moments when we need each other most. This is evident in school. When a student encounters difficulties in the early years, this can be met in one of two ways. Either the student receives the support, the time and the tools needed to reach the knowledge necessary for further studies and for life. Then a small problem will never be more than that. That moment of learning and that moment when you overcome what was first an obstacle also becomes a memory that builds confidence: I can learn. It'll be a kind of muscle memory of knowledge. The student then leaves primary school and starts in fourth grade with all the conditions to follow in the classes. The student has taken the important steps, can read what is required to learn and has the mathematical basics with him in order to understand and continue learning in both the natural sciences and social sciences. In addition, everyone in the class, not only the individual student in need of support, has learned that we sometimes learn in different ways. We can learn differently quickly, and we need different tools to meet the knowledge requirements. This is an important thing to have with us, because we will all face obstacles in our learning and in the learning efforts of primary school and the combined training period. Or, Mr President, the student does not get the support that the student needs. Teachers often warn, alert and require support to be put in and that you as a teacher get the tools you need to reach this particular student, but it doesn't really come in place. When the student reaches the fourth grade, it will be difficult to keep up with the lessons. Self-confidence, self-esteem, the desire to learn and enjoy school has already begun to break down. There will be a reason to destroy for itself and disturb others. You've learned that you're not the kind of person who learns. Parents and schools will then easily get into conflict when parents demand the pupil's right: that what would actually have happened now should happen. It is because of this that it looks so different depending on what we do early on, that it is so important that at every Swedish school there are strong structures that give each teacher the support and tools that that teacher needs to support his students. It is the structures that create equality and ensure that a student receives support when the student needs it, and not because you have parents who know that you can report. We're not there today. I am proud to be in a country with a political debate in which we can listen to representatives of all political parties who actually face the truth. Students do not get the support they need. Far too often we are in the situation that teachers alert and want support to provide support to the student, but the student does not. As Erik Bengtzboe said earlier, this is also much more expensive. When aid comes in too late, it requires covering because what was first a small problem has become an obstacle on many subjects. There is a great risk that you will never really catch up with the support that the student needs and that you will lay the foundations for what can become a lifelong exclusion. When we don't give students support early, we're wasting talent. It is important that we see this. Today we give the most documented special support in the ninth grade. We and various governments have done much to try to break this. But in the evaluations we have, we are still there: We provide the most documented special support in the ninth grade. Everyone understands that this is too late for many students. Despite the strong efforts made at that time, many people are at risk of not catching up. That is why a law is needed that more strongly secures and ensures that the structures that give students the right to support in time are in place. There are three very clear things that change in the proposal which the committee has now supported and which Parliament is voting on at 2.30 p.m. 16 today, compared to the current school law. Firstly, the bill requires that the structures are in place – that there are clear systems from preschool to primary school to detect and provide support for every student who needs it. The Swedish School Inspectorate states in its referrals that this gives the Swedish School Inspectorate a new tool to follow up when you see that a school has many students who, for example, in the national exams in grade 3 do not reach the goals of Swedish, Swedish as a second language or mathematics. It can then also be seen what support these students have received and what indications have been there that a student would not reach the goals in grade 3. What could have been done in the past? This monitoring will also ensure that the structures are built up at school. This is not, note well, a follow-up to be made of individual documents or sheets of paper placed in a box at different times, but questions that can be asked to ensure: Did you discover the student? Didn't you discover the student? What is lacking in the structure? In this way, the structure can be built up. The second thing that exists here is a statutory right for teachers to take support from staff with special pedagogy skills in the difficult assessments that need to be made along the way. When the teacher sees that there are indications that a student will not bring the reading, writing, and counting from primary school, what do we do? Then as a teacher, I have the right to work with staff with special pedagogy skills. The third is that through the structured work, where we not only use measurement methods but also ensure that measurement opportunities are linked to action, we also have the opportunity to find early signs that someone has greater needs during their schooling. We can find them in the student regardless of whether any diagnosis has been made and before conflicts have arisen between parents and school. Of course, as many of the debaters have mentioned, the legal regulation of the read-write-count guarantee must be part of much greater work. It is quite correct that we are inspired by the strongest school systems in the world. On these very issues, we do not need to go beyond the Baltic Sea. Finland is struggling with many challenges in its school system, but precisely when it comes to ensuring early school support, Finland is an example. What we can see there is a combination where the right for students is strong, the culture is strong early and there are plenty of special teachers and plenty of special educational tools for each teacher. The Finnish school does not generally have more teachers than the Swedish school, but there are more special teachers, and each teacher has basic special pedagogy skills. Therefore, we are working to get more special teachers in Swedish school. We have broken the trend towards fewer special teachers. On the contrary, they are becoming more numerous, and there will be better conditions for existing teachers to read on and become special teachers. We are building up a major training programme, Special Education for Learning, so that all teachers can benefit from basic special pedagogy skills. We are reforming the teacher training courses, starting with the special teacher training courses, in order for everyone to gain knowledge about neuropsychiatric disabilities. We have also ensured that the major investments we make in school begin with more resources and more employees being deployed in the early years, so that teachers there have time for their knowledge assignments. As part of this larger work, the law that has now been submitted to Parliament is required. It is also about equality. All of us who participate in the discussion know what it takes to achieve equality and build a strong school system again. The first is that resources are directed at those schools and students who need it most. In the past, it has all too often been the strongest municipalities and the strongest principals who have been able to capture the most resources, and the money we spend together has not reached the students and schools that need them best. We are turning this around now. The second is to break the segregation. Swedish school was at its strongest when the children of the director and cleaner met in the same classroom. That's where we need to come back. The third is that students need strong rights, so that they get the support they need early. It doesn't have to depend on you or your parents knowing to fight for your right, but these structures and systems should be in place at school. That is what this legislation is all about. It is a solid process that is behind the legislation that is now being presented. The basic legislative proposal was produced by Associate Professor Ulf Fredriksson, who was responsible for reading comprehension in the Swedish PISA tests. The school commission and several of the referral bodies supported the introduction of such a law, but there has been concern that there would be too much bureaucracy and too little impact, much as Christer Nylander described it in the debate. That is why we chose to withdraw the legislative proposal, have constructive discussions and see what we could strengthen in the legislation to ensure that the very purpose is achieved. In the proposal now under consideration, we can point to five clear changes. The first is the prerequisites for strengthened implementation. By adding state resources through the school authorities and to the principals already this year but making a sharp introduction next year, there are conditions for building a strong implementation of each principal and also getting support from the school authorities for it. The second is a clarification of the purpose. It is not about new documentation requirements but about students who need support getting it on time. The third is a strengthened principal responsibility, which we link with the legislation that has now been decided by the Riksdag, with a clearly identified school manager of each principal. We spend money to achieve this, and then it is important that that money reaches the students so if need it. The fourth is a clarification that the guarantee is met only when the efforts you have seen are necessary and know can make a difference for the students actually have also been taken for each student. The fifth is a clarification that mapping in the preschool class can be a natural part of teaching there. With this, I would like to thank the opposition – the Moderates, the Center Party, the Left Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats – for constructive discussions along the way. I would also like to thank the many school leaders, teachers, special educators, researchers and, not least, representatives of the movement for a Sweden and a school that gives all pupils regardless of functional variation the best conditions that have been involved in getting this legislation in place. It lays a strong foundation for the school in the future.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-356	Mr President, I would like to I was unin enough to ask for a reply to the last speech, but I was not going to give a brand speech. I have two questions of which I am genuinely curious. It may be unusual in this speaker's chair. The first question concerns the bill. This with support measures, follow-up and evaluation is already stipulated in the School Act. I read the school law very carefully for this debate. Everything's already there, in the 3rd chapter. Section 5 – 8 and Chapter 3 9 – 10 §. Now I understand that what's in the school law doesn't really work. Has the government considered why it does not work, or does it just come up with a new proposal without evaluating what does not work with today's legislation? The factors that make current legislation not working can also make future proposals not work. I'll come to the second question. The government says that parents sound the alarm and protest. I've been working at school for a number of years. What I've seen most of the time parents sound the alarm about is lack of studies in the classrooms. We've talked about this before, Minister Fridolin. As I see it after my years at school, this is the most serious single reason why the study results in Swedish schools have gone down. I wonder whether the government has the same view and whether it has been thought of making sharp proposals in this area.
i-KkwHXNZqpuhfD2bjtPiTxk	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Stenkvist, for sincere questions! When it comes to leadership in the classroom to create studies, it is important that we have strong national school development programmes, so that you can share tools and experiences with each other, teachers between. It's about how to create a good teaching situation. It is important to have strong rules of conduct at school that can also be followed, with the sanctions contained in the rules of procedure. It is also about strong leadership through the Vice-Chancellor, who supports teachers in the situations they end up in. It is also important to have a sufficient number of employees. It is difficult to use the powers if you know that you are alone and it is empty in the corridor outside. What we are discussing today is also important. In fact, knowledge itself is protective. If students don't have the tools to keep up with their lessons, it's a lot more difficult to create security and study in the classroom. Unfortunately, this causes students to destroy themselves and disturb others. Therefore, early support is also crucial for studies in the late years. Like Robert Stenkvist, it can be said that there are texts about this in the school law today. Unfortunately, several of them are quite generally held. The School Inspectorate notes that they provide opportunities to follow up if someone reports, and you can direct criticism and often do so in order for schools to build stronger systems for special support and extra adaptations. But we don't really have a legal tool to follow up on the structure in the early years. We see a school where a lot of people leave third grade without passing the national exams-- what's the failure? Haven't the students been discovered? Often the teachers have seen them, but what is it at system level that has not backed up the teachers? And if you've made efforts, where have they broken? Would you rather, as someone put it, give what you have instead of what the student needs? This law gives the School Inspectorate these tools.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-364	Mr President, I would like to I share the Government's view on how to get better studies in the classrooms: shared tools, clearer rules of conduct with consequences and leadership. I want sharper proposals in all these areas. But I have no objection to the direction. I have one last question before we go to lunch. There is another student group that also causes trouble in the classroom and causes problems for the teachers. It's not an insignificant student group. They are the ones who are far too far ahead and do not receive sufficient encouragement from the teachers' teaching. My experience is that these students can cause enormous problems because they are understimulated. In fact, we have spoken very little about this student group. Does the government have any suggestions on how to address this problem? This is not a minor problem in my experience.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-367	Mr President, I would like to I think it's great that Robert Stenkvist highlights this. Individualization of teaching and finding the right tools to reach the individual learner is about so different things for the individual learner. You know that in schools where you have started to implement the work with, for example, reading, writing and counting. Students who were thought to have had difficulty with teaching and had difficulty learning might actually have been quite easy to do but were understimulated and were not in a position to actually be challenged by the teaching that took place. That is why I am so convinced that if we build a school where teachers have the right support and can share experiences with each other when it comes to meeting different students, it is not only good to ensure that those students who find it difficult to meet the knowledge requirements, but it gives us the opportunity to meet students who for a very long time have not had the right conditions to meet in Swedish school. This applies, for example, to those who need to be extra challenged and who may need more difficult tasks or be challenged in being able to support any of the other students who have not yet really understood and learn further through the strong technology that it means trying to find ways to help teach. So it is about the kind of tools that strong teachers and good leaders use in their teaching today. It is about making a school that is stronger in the field of special education and that can detect students and see students' differences. It also reaches them. That is why this legislation plays a role, which is why it matters that we have more special teachers, and that is why it is important, and perhaps most important, that we start to expand so that all teachers have basic special pedagogy skills. More specialist teachers and more specialised pedagogic skills of each teacher are a success factor in the strongest school systems in the world. Thank you for the debate and for the last question. I would be happy to come back in interpellation debates.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-371	Mr President, I would like to Now that we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the UN and human rights in Swedish foreign policy, I can once again say that it is a very comprehensive and comprehensive report which is difficult to include with the limited speaking time available. I'll give it a try. There is no doubt that we are living in a troubled time, where the threat to human rights is widespread and more difficult than for a long time. But I would also like to stress that there are opposite situations. In fact, there are countries where the development of greater respect for human rights is progressing. But it is not these countries that we will be debating today. In today's modern and complex conflict environment, it is important that the laws concerning war and international law are adapted to the situation and that the legislation is developed and improved. Mr President, I would like to Humanitarian law must be developed and strengthened to include the civilian population and civilian structures. Here the UN plays an extremely important and central role. The UN needs to become sharper, sharper and more active in combating escalating conflicts, as this is to a large extent affecting the civilian population. There is always a risk that a war or conflict will continue, that the war will develop even more negatively and that there will be further lengthy conflicts that will in turn be difficult to resolve. Therefore, we Moderates believe that the UN needs not only to be strengthened but also sharpened. One example of the UN's difficulties is the right of veto, where one country can block the UN's efforts to support peace-building measures. Sweden is a major contributor to the UN and therefore an important player to use its mandate to ensure that the UN develops more cost-effectively and focuses more on results. In this context, I would also like to mention the International Criminal Court, which is an important tool in supporting the accountability of those who commit the most terrible war crimes. In a world of legal certainty, abusers and acts of war must also be held accountable to them. I would also like to mention Russia, which is a neighbouring country and part of Europe, where we can clearly see how human rights are increasingly being called into question. Not least today we can read how a regime-critical Russian journalist, Arkadij Babtjenko, has been shot in Ukraine. It has not yet been established that Russia was responsible for the crime, but there is much evidence of it. When it comes to Russia, I would also like to mention the legislation that has been adopted and that actually makes it legal to abuse women in their own homes. This has happened in modern times in the 2010s. I would also like to mention the deterioration in the protection of LGBT people and the shrinking of civil society. I shall then proceed to China. China is an important country, a country whose importance has increased. China invests in a large number of countries and has a growing economy. But with this comes a responsibility for human rights and a responsibility to contribute to the positive development of the earth's population. In this context, China can start by changing internally in its own country and ensuring that human rights are also respected in China. Let me give some examples of the negative development of human rights in China. The legislation limiting the number of terms of office that a president can be re-elected was removed in March 2018. China is also a one-party state that does not allow any opposition or oppositional action. According to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report, there are restrictions on freedom of opinion, opinion, association, assembly, demonstration and religion, that is to say, all forms of human rights. In addition, there is persecution and discrimination against organisations working on LGBTQ issues. In this context, I would also like to mention that there is a great and widespread repression of minority groups. I am thinking here of the repression that is taking place against Tibet and Xinjiang. The form of opposition expressed against the Chinese regime is not allowed. People living in these areas are also not allowed to practice their religion. And the information that seeps out clearly shows how the situation of the inhabitants of Tibet and Xinjiang is deteriorating. The situation deters us. It is urgent that the UN and also Sweden take action to ensure that one of the major and leading countries in the world respects human rights, Mr President. As far as Myanmar is concerned, there is a negative trend that has been going on for a long time, and there is so far no indication that the situation has improved for the Rohingyans. Rather, the difficulties have escalated in recent years. The EU, including Sweden, also has an important role to play here in order to improve the situation of the Rohingyans and to pay attention to their situation. The committee has also dealt with the human rights situation in Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia in its report. With regard to Eritrea, I must mention Dawit Isaak, who has been in prison for more than 16 years. Sweden has an obligation to work for the Swedish citizen Dawit Isaak to be released as soon as possible. Fikr Maru who has been imprisoned in Ethiopia has been released, which is gratifying. With regard to Somalia, I would like to say that the incidence of genital mutilation is the highest in the world. This is remarkable and bad. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by emphasising that free trade, a market economy, respect for human rights and democracy and the abolition of corruption are important factors for positive development not only for the economy but also for human rights. Therefore, Sweden should be a strong and driving voice for human rights in the world.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-386	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that this debate, which deals with motions concerning the UN, human rights and foreign policy, is very timely. There is also the question of Somalia and Somaliland. I was going to be somewhat unconventional and leave the discussions on the motions we are debating today. Only yesterday the Parliament was visited by a committed and impressive woman, the 80-year-old Iron Lady Edna Adan. Edna Adan is the former Foreign Minister of the country which this House has not yet recognised today, but which is called Somaliland. Although I myself have been involved in this matter for at least four years, I have to say that only meeting Edna Adan and listening to her during this seminar affected me very much. For this reason, I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to Mrs Wallström, to the Government and to the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to listen to what the Somali Government has to say. Please listen to Edna Adan – she will be here until next week. Listen and hear about Somaliland's history. Listen to their story of their successes, opportunities and future needs. I know that there are also a number of Members in Parliament who agree with me that Somaliland is an independent nation and an example in its part of the world. Then can't you just, please, help me open the eyes of your party friends! What you can accomplish is something incredible. You can make such a difference to these 31⁄2 – 4 million people in Somaliland. It is about strengthening trade relations and improving human rights and cooperation between Somaliland and Sweden. I also promise that only one meeting will affect you. That could make the world a much better place, and that is why we are here today. Last but not least, it would be a fantastic gesture against Somaliland's people, who, despite difficulties, have endured for so many years and have always done exactly what they are going to do to build their country. Somaliland is a unique state in several ways. They have well-functioning institutions and really everything you can expect from an independent nation. Democracy and the political system are working very well. The country is characterised by security, and progress is moving forward by leaps and bounds. Companies are established and able to flourish, while taking on enormous joint and several responsibility in a very troubled part of the world. It values its neighbours, although many of them are not always too benevolent towards Somaliland. We can see this from the many patients who are being cared for in hospitals in Somaliland. You can see how they care, given that they receive a large number of students from Somalia, for example. It actively combats terrorism and fundamentalism. It assists in the fight against piracy in neighbouring Somalia and the area of Puntaland, among other things by locking pirates in prisons in Somaliland. In Somalia, they would in many cases be classified as heroes and released again. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to refer to something that Mrs Edna Adan said at yesterday's seminar. There was once a strong desire to marry the people you love, the people of Somalia, a marriage between Somalia and Somaliland. But the fact is, that association wasn't successful. Instead, the problems have increased, and the relationship of love ended with divorce — a divorce that is better for all parties, because violence arose and there were various conflicts. This is a divorce that Sweden must admit. Are we going to force this couple to live together? Should we ignore the strong will to continue the positive development? Which country in Africa even comes close to Somali country's democracy and development? Which country in Africa comes close to their stability? It is totally unreasonable not to recognise this separation, nor can we expect the Somali Government to recognise the acts they have actually committed. Edna Adan put it rather crudely: Would it be possible to imagine Hitler confessing and defending the victims of Auschwitz? She thought it was very strange, and I agree. Mr President, I would like to Hargeisa, the capital of Somaliland, is Africa's safest capital, and Somaliland is one of Africa's best functioning countries. However, the policy of the government and the Alliance in this area stops the potential for continued success for the Somali people, for the business community to flourish and for the whole region to become more secure. Sweden should therefore change the security classification so that companies and individuals can go there without being warned to go to a conflict-filled area. The development of industrial and trade policy in the region should be promoted. Last but not least, the government must also work towards streamlining the funds currently going to Mogadishu in Somalia. Why should we spend aid money on security in Mogadishu when we have secure Hargeisa? Why do this when we are also aware of the unstable situation in Somalia, where the government is barely in control of its own country and where, moreover, there is widespread corruption and shady business? Mr President, I would like to There are many further issues that are well worth highlighting in this debate, and of course I will do so too. I was going to start with the UN, an extremely important international body to prevent war and support the people in need of help. The United Nations is also a fantastic institution for the practice of diplomacy, which enables you to communicate literally with the peoples of the whole world. It is also important to be able to engage in dialogue with dictatorships and countries which in no way live up to such values and human rights as we see as self-evident. However, the disadvantage of their presence is that it is also these, and not the free world, that is the core of the UN today. Naturally, therefore, we need to keep on the watch all the time, and there is much to do to improve the UN. This is particularly important now that we are actually on the Security Council and can influence more than before. Sweden, which is a very generous donor to the UN, should play a central role in this cooperation. We shall have a strong and independent voice and do much more to make higher demands on those who lead UN cooperation. Similarly, we should look at the possibility of developing cooperation with countries that have a similar view of democracy and human rights, for example. We should work to clearly improve the fight against corruption and irregularities both within the UN and outside, and strengthen the protection of whistleblowers. We should therefore initiate a reform of the UN internal rules on the protection of whistleblowers, the dispute settlement mechanism between the UN and its staff, the system of evaluation and auditing and the possibility of prosecuting persons who commit crimes during UN service. Mr President, I would like to Another issue that absolutely needs to be raised in today's debate is the question of Russia. As we all know, developments in Russia are in a very negative and authoritarian direction right now, as a result of Putin's accession. Russia has not only become a security threat in military terms, but also on other levels we have great cause for concern. The downward trend in democratic status is evident, and there are a great many examples of Russia's violations of international law and human rights violations, which we see as self-evident. Just last night, as Margareta Cederfelt mentioned earlier, we were able to hear about how a Russian journalist was murdered outside her home in Kiev. One need not be too familiar to understand that this can be interpreted as a sharp warning to Russian regime-critical journalists and that they are not even safe when they are outside Russia's borders. Tools such as legislation, propaganda and political influence on the judiciary have been used to silence opponents and strengthen the position of the Russian regime. The situation of dissidents and critics of the regime is therefore very difficult, to put it mildly. We have also seen how popular opposition politicians are quickly accused of embezzlement and similar crimes, seemingly merely to eliminate future threats to authoritarian Russian rule. For some years now, the EU has been sanctioning Russia, which, as is well known, is fully supported by the Swedish Democrats. If clear improvements are not made to these groups, we should also consider further strengthening sanctions against Russia. The government must take the necessary measures to enable opposition politicians and journalists to work for the strengthening of democracy throughout Russia. At the same time, Mr President, I should like to say that I am surprised that there was no stronger support for this approach. My view is that there is quite a large consensus in Parliament on these measures. Mr President, I would like to I realize I've been talking for a very long time now. I'd love to talk a little more, but I respect the time. As a matter of urgency, I would just like to point out the importance of the government putting more gunpowder into the situation in Myanmar. The situation in the country is acute, and I would like to stress the importance of making clear demands on Myanmar regarding the subsequent UN resolutions, as well as issues relating to human rights, political prisoners, ethnic conflicts and, not least, the position of minorities – including the Rohingyes – in the country. Having said that, I am in favour of reservations 2 and 12, but we naturally support all the SD reservations in the report.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-414	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with 170 claims from autumn 2015, 2016 and 2017. It focuses on six of the world's countries, so one can understand that there will be a very limited debate when we talk about human rights globally. However, this is the fourth report on the table, Mr President, so we have touched on more of the world's human rights challenges during this parliamentary term than this report shows. Unfortunately, human rights are currently being undermined globally. We see human rights defenders threatened, imprisoned and even murdered. We see how the free word is not only threatened and imprisoned but also murdered. As indicated earlier in the debate, this happened last night in Kiev, where another Russian journalist – may I say – was murdered. We have also seen it earlier this year in Malta and Slovakia. Mr President, I would like to We see authoritarian populists in the name of the people strangling and undermining human rights, both in Europe and globally. We are seeing this in Putin Russia, Erdo中an's Turkey, Orbán's Hungary, Al-Sisis Egypt, Jinping's China, Dutertes Philippines and Maduros Venezuela. Unfortunately, Mr President, the list of gentlemen who strangle the free word and who strangle and undermine human rights can be made very long. As a result of these developments, we also see the re-launch of the death penalty, sometimes as a threat and sometimes as a reality on the streets of the world, which is deeply serious. It is time to demonstrate alternatives, to stand up for our liberal democracy and for human rights and to strengthen cooperation for human rights globally. That is what this is all about. Alone isn't strong here either. We see the authoritarian populists joining forces and giving each other protection in a development that dismays. The UN clearly reflects the world of today. This has always been the case, but with the new power that many of these gentlemen have gained, it is also visible in the various UN bodies. The UN Declaration on Human Rights, which turns 70 this year, Mr President, must be binding on the Member States, but it is being undermined by the Member States. In Sweden, we have great support for the UN, both widely popular and widely financial. However, the various bodies of the United Nations, which we support, act together and on behalf of the Member States in which they work for peace, security and development. There is, of course, a challenge here, Mr President, when we see how many of the Member States choose to face human rights and how they push back human rights in different ways. We have seen this clearly also with regard to the SRHR. Women's rights are human rights – not everyone sees it, Mr President – and of course we must take that fight. Sweden now has a vote in the Security Council. This must be a vote for human rights, for reforms, for combating impunity and for strengthening international law, such as the ICC. It must be a vote to seek dialogue on how we can develop responsibility to protection – the protection of individuals when states oppress, threaten and murder and cannot enforce human rights in their country. Human rights trampled on and eroded pose a threat to international peace and security. We've seen it through history. We taught when we created our institutions that we should not do that again. Yet we see how it happens, Mr President, for example now in Syria. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the UN's clear compliance with its own Declaration of Human Rights and its own rules in all its efforts and in all its work. Any abuse must be prosecuted, no matter what it is. Unwittingly, this must also apply to sexual abuse, which has not been the case. Mr President, I would like to We have touched on the negative development of human rights in Russia in relation to journalists, opposition politicians, civil society and so on. Chechnya is, in this context, a black hole for human rights. No one comes in, no one reviews, and anyone who tries to review must do so with the will of the regime; something else is not possible. The fact that there have been crimes against LGBTQ people has been very clear thanks to courageous LGBTQ people who, at the risk of their own and their families' lives, have dared to tell. Murder has occurred, and there must be no impunity. Nor must it be impunity for the murder of opposition politicians, such as Boris Nemtsov. We still haven't received a full investigation into who was the mastermind behind the murder. We have reason to come back to Magnitsky, Mr President, when we deal with the UU10 report in due course, and the possibility of deciding, together with others, on more sanctions in the event of abuse and human rights violations. A great deal has been said about the situation of the Rohingyes and developments in Myanmar, and I can agree with several of the speeches. I would also like to touch on China, one of the vetoes of the Security Council, which, of course, has a special responsibility to live up to human rights and which sees this responsibility in a way that is frightening. We see how the leader of the Communist Party Jinping strengthens the grip on his power. Disparities, political or otherwise, but especially political, are eliminated by various methods. The repression of minorities in Tibet, for example, is increasing. This is a deeply worrying development, not least the situation in South-East Asia. In the light of this, the report also deals with our Swedish kidnapped Gui Minhai. It is important that Sweden, together with the EU, continues to work clearly and strongly for his immediate release. We have seen that release is possible in the case of Ethiopia, where we now warmly welcome Fikru Marus' release and return to Sweden. Imagine the idea that Eritrea would now tell us, after 16 years and 249 days, where Dawit Isaak is and that we would see a release of him. With this, I would like to support reservation 3 in paragraph 1.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-435	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the UN and human rights in Swedish foreign policy. These are, unfortunately, subjects to which we must return frequently, as all societies in the world find it difficult to fully live up to human rights. This varies to varying degrees, and the societies that have, after all, been well on their way to achieving all the rights have proved to be more equal. However, some of these countries are also moving towards an increasingly unequal society with growing income gaps, where the number of working poor is increasing by the day and thus the violations of human rights. Today, eight men own as much as the world's poorest half of the population. Therein lies the cause of many of the problems that appear in climate disasters and conflicts and that too many people are hardly given any human rights at all. The violations are widespread. As I said, we have debated this before with different focus areas. Today, the focus is on Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Russia, China, Myanmar and, furthermore, the UN. We in the Left Party have raised motions concerning these countries and the UN. However, some of them have already been highlighted, and since the time is short, I intend to focus only on some of our motions dealt with in this report. I would like to begin by highlighting some of the Swedes who are imprisoned or who have received the death penalty without any legal basis. Journalist Dawit Isaak has been imprisoned for 6,093 days in Eritrea. The publisher Gui Minhai was captured in Thailand by China. He was released last spring but imprisoned quickly again. The doctor and researcher in emergency medicine Ahmadreza Djalali has been sentenced to the death penalty in Iran. We in the Left Party believe that Sweden must step up efforts to get these regimes to change their positions. All these cases are extremely urgent, but I would like to highlight Mrs Dawit Isaak in particular today. He has been imprisoned since 2001 in Eritrea, one of Africa's most harsh dictatorships. It is one of the world's most militarised countries and has a bottom line in terms of freedom of the press index. Journalist Dawit Isaak has been in prison for almost 17 years without anyone seeing him. It is clear that so-called silent diplomacy is not working in this case. We expect the government to do everything possible to release Dawit Isaak. So, Mr President, I would like to support reservation 6. In fact, there are some good exits when it comes to Swedes who have been kidnapped and unjustly imprisoned, of which the last week when the heart doctor Fikru Maru was finally released from the prison in Ethiopia. We are some members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs who, today, had actually intended to highlight the importance of the government doing its utmost to acquit him. In any case, I am glad that it is not necessary, and I dare say that the others in this House are too. The experience of what has worked, as in this case, and what has obviously not worked, as in the case of Dawit Isaak, needs to be compiled so that Sweden can develop its efforts and get some sort of solution for those still in prison. There is no universal solution, but without a clear compilation and analysis of the work done, it is even more difficult to achieve any results. I would also like to highlight how this puts your policy on global development at its head. The human rights conflict vis-à-vis trade has previously weighed and appears to continue to weigh in the interests of trade. Trade can certainly bring positive benefits, such as dialogue and a more open society. However, when it comes to authoritarian states, it is important as a government to exercise great caution and not only to meet high-ranking politicians on their trade trips, but also to meet and support civil organisations in the countries concerned. Mr President, I would like to One country with which Sweden deals a lot is China, which is still a dictatorship and where the violations of democratic rights and freedoms are widespread. China is probably the country in the world that executes the most people per year. The treatment of oppositionists and dissidents has intensified in recent years. China is formally a multi-party state, but in practice the Communist Party has a monopoly of power. There are no national elections. Demands for political change and attempts to form independent associations are classified as threats to the security of the Chinese nation. Detentions without trial are also common. China is today the world's second largest market for organ transplants. After massive criticism from the outside world, the regime claims that organ theft is no longer taking place, but according to several experts in the field, it is still continuing. I believe that Sweden should work towards the establishment of an international investigation into organ theft reports in China. It is clear that the dialogue that Sweden has managed to achieve with China thanks to trade is not enough at all. Human rights are being violated all the time, and then their people need our support, not just that we are dealing with their powers. There is a worldwide body where the whole world's countries come together to work with human rights, the UN. We have seen how the world has become much more polarized since the turn of the millennium, the UN as well. All too often, discord between countries and regions has created locks and blocked important decisions and the necessary reforms of the UN system. If the UN is to unite and become more capable of action, the Security Council must be reformed, the General Assembly strengthened and respect for international law restored. Transparency needs to be improved. The role of civil society within and transparency in the UN system needs to be significantly expanded, for it is precisely civil society that plays an important role both as a watchdog and as a provider of information both within and outside the UN system. Secretary General Guterres has begun a reform work but has met with some resistance. Sweden can play an important role here. The fact that our country is militaryly non-aligned and still enjoys great confidence in our work on decolonisation, disarmament and peace gives us a unique position in many ways. I believe that Sweden should work actively to counter fragmentation and lock-ups within the UN system in order for the UN to become a more united and capable of action organisation. This requires a clear UN strategy for the whole of the work, not just for the various bodies within the UN system. If we are serious about feminist foreign policy, Sweden should work for a woman to become the next Secretary-General of the United Nations.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-455	Mr President, I would like to Today we were struck by the unspeakable news that 41 - year - old Russian journalist Arkadij Babtjenko was shot to death in Kiev. His wife was in the bathroom when she heard shots, and she rushed out and found her husband lying on the floor, says Kiev Post. Arkadij Babtjenko was a well-known Putin critic, and on a number of occasions he had criticized the Russian annexation of Crimea. The police suspect that the murder could be linked to his work as a journalist. He was one of the most famous Russian war correspondents, but he is reported to have left Russia because he feared for his life after criticizing the authorities. At the same time, we were reached with information that Bill Browder, who has been here in Parliament several times, was arrested in Madrid after Russia wanted him through Interpol. Browder was responsible for one of the largest funds operating in Russia. The lawyer Sergej Magnitsky helped this company before he was arrested and more than a year later died in Russian prison. Browder has then traveled the world to lobby for sanctions against Russia, so-called Magnitsky laws. A little while ago, the good news was that Browder has been released in Madrid. However, this is the sixth time that Russia has abused Interpol in order to arrest him. The murder of Babtjenko and the arrest in Madrid are two examples of what awaits those who openly oppose oppression in Russia. The list can be extended to journalists, human rights defenders and Putin critics who have to pay for their lives because of their work against the mafia rule and bandit rule that prevails in Russia. Mr President, I would like to This development is extremely serious, and of course it also affects Sweden as a neighbouring country. Nothing indicates that any positive change in Russia is in sight. The opposition is largely crushed, critical voices are silenced and citizens are denied fundamental rights. Media freedom has been severely restricted as a result of draconian laws, a corrupt legal system, reprisals and threats of deadly violence. Nationalist propaganda dominates the media landscape completely, while free and critical journalism is pushed back. LGBT people are subjected to violence or are at risk of disappearing. The rhetoric of the state-controlled or regime-friendly media, especially against the USA but also against Sweden, Europe and the rest of the West, is irreconcilable. There is a massive online disinformation campaign under the leadership of the Russian Government. Lies are being spread about what is happening in the world so as to confuse people both inside and outside the country. The goal is to make it harder to trust anything at all. On social media, positive opinions about Russian politics are spread while opponents are being harassed. This, of course, undermines the role of the Internet as a media channel and tool for Russian freedom of expression. It is also a security policy threat. The Swedish Security Service states that Russia is conducting a psychological war against Sweden. In the U.S., Russian hackers manipulated the presidential elections in favor of Donald Trump. Constant manipulations, fake news, fog curtains and support for right-wing extremists and left-wing extremists aim to polarise other countries and absolve Russia of responsibility for the crimes they have committed. In addition, there is the attack on Georgia, the occupation of the annexation of Crimea, the war in Syria and the destabilisation of a number of countries in Eastern Europe. At the same time, we see rearmament and high military capacity from the Russian side. The Swedish Defence Research Institute, FOI, describes how Russia has achieved regional military superiority in northern Europe. To this shall be added the uncertainty generated by the ongoing Brexit process and the unpredictable US administration. Instead of investing in opportunities for the population, the Russian government uses the resources for the country's combat forces. This forces us in Sweden to increase our defence capabilities and strengthen our protection against cyber attacks and similar subversive activities against our country. It also requires us to become more aware of what the threats to Sweden look like. In particular, it concerns the risk of Russia increasing support for extreme political groups in Sweden. All in all, Russian development represents a difficult balance. While Sweden's friendship with the people of Russia needs to be stronger than ever, our representatives in all contacts must be clear in the criticism of the authoritarian regime, and our readiness must be greatly increased. Tough criticism should be combined with increased inter-people relations. We want to encourage more contacts between Sweden and Russia, which can, among other things, strengthen civil society. It is not the Russian people we have a quarrel with, but Putin's policy. Mr President, I would like to I support the Liberals' reservation, No 13, which deals with this. I also support the Liberals' reservation, No 7, which concerns the release of Swedish citizen Dawit Isaak.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-470	Mr President, I would like to In essence, I would like to agree with what has been said. Fredrik Malm mentioned the arrest of Bill Browser in Spain. Swedish human rights actors and journalists have previously been imprisoned in Madrid, and then Turkey was behind it. Now it was Russia again. Mr President, I would like to There is reason to draw attention to this very point in our talks. This time it was a quick release of Bill Browder, but these are examples of how Russia and others abuse Interpol to get to dissidents or oppositionists. This is not included in the report, but it is important that we work together to try and stop this. Otherwise Interpol will be one of the possibilities for authoritarian leaders to strangle the opposition and threaten both the one being arrested and others who are in danger of facing the same fate. That is why it is important that we are clear here. I agree with the importance of taking action to put an end to the type of development that we have seen in the Magnitsky case. I hope that together we will be able to work for Magnitsky legislation in Sweden as well.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-474	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with what Kerstin Lundgren says. It is an ongoing debate, partly in the broad sense, on how our country should react to developments in Russia. When it comes to concrete issues such as Magnitsky and other things and if it is not possible to move forward on this track EU-wide, countries should be able to act unilaterally, as many have done. Sweden should also be able to do so. In this part we are in complete agreement.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-476	Mr President, I would like to That's good. We have to form a community and try to get more to go that way. I am not thinking of Sweden starting to impose sanctions on one after the other in relation to human rights violations, but we need to have the opportunity, together with others in the EU, when the EU is blocked, to act so that human rights violations do not go unnoticed. The Magnitsky issue is such an opportunity that we must seize.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-478	Mr President, I would like to I have no objection.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-479	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report on the UN and human rights in Swedish foreign policy. The report deals with motion requests concerning the UN and the UN system, but also with the human rights situation in a number of specific countries. Democracy and freedom in the world are in sharp decline. When Freedom House released its report on freedom in the world in 2017, they noted that we are now in the twelfth year in a row when freedom declined in the world. In 71 countries, civil liberties declined. The fact that in the report the Committee on Foreign Affairs only raises the situation in six countries should not be interpreted as anything other than that we have dealt with the requests for motion by Members concerning these countries, while proposals on the human rights situation in other countries have been dealt with in other reports, such as the recent debate on the situation in the Middle East. In my speech, I will focus on the UN system and the specific countries in which the Christian Democrats have motions that have been dealt with, namely Burma, Eritrea and Ethiopia. Let me start with the UN, Mr President. The UN is a unique and important organisation. No other organization gathers the states of the world to work for peace and freedom, but it is also an organisation with great problems. Sweden is a member of the United Nations along with a number of multifaceted countries, many of which have a view on democracy, international law and human rights that differs considerably from our own. The war in Syria, where al-Asad-Assad is bombing civilians with Russian support, and the brutal march of the Islamic State has shown devastating consequences of a world community and a UN that has been paralysed because of the right of veto. It is therefore essential for the UN to speed up its reform efforts. Without change, confidence in the UN will not last. The United Nations Charter, which came to 1945, does not take into account the complex world system of today, which means that the Security Council, through the right of veto, is constantly facing lock-ups. The inability to intervene when crimes against humanity and genocide are committed is shameful. Today, too often the right of veto is being used by one of the permanent members of the Security Council to politicise already infected issues rather than, as was intended when the Security Council was once constructed, being used to stop dangerous proposals. There are also clear shortcomings in the UN Human Rights Council, mainly because the Council is made up of Member States that consistently violate the rights that the Council is appointed to defend. Sweden should play a more active role in the reform of the UN system and work towards the introduction of specific criteria for obtaining a seat in the Human Rights Council. Mr President, I would like to We are seeing a new and worrying trend. Defenders of human rights, aid workers and journalists have been targeted in conflict. In the last ten years, attacks on aid workers have almost doubled. A year ago, Swedish Zaida Catalán and her two UN colleagues were murdered during the mission to monitor sanctions and investigate suspected massacres in the Kasai region of Congo. The Christian Democrats believe that the government must intensify its efforts to establish an international criminal investigation worthy of the name so that the guilty are arrested and brought to justice. Sweden must also ensure, on the basis of the report of the UN Board of Inquiry, that the recommendation made on improving the protection of UN experts becomes a reality. What happened to Zaida Catalán and her colleagues must never happen again. Mr President, I would like to In this world we are in great need of sparkles of light. One is that I have been able to remove one of the reservations that the Christian Democrats had in the report – the one that concerns the Government having to do more to get Fikru Maru released. After five years, the Swedish heart doctor has finally been released from Ethiopian prison. However, the treatment and legal uncertainty of Marus's case is anything but acceptable. Sweden must continue to use all the means at its disposal to reverse the repressive trend in Ethiopia, because it is deeply serious. Let us hope that we also have a day of joy soon when it comes to Dawit Isaak. The report deals with the harsh regime in Eritrea, where journalist Dawit Isaak has been in prison for 16 years without trial because of his criticism of the regime. Both the government and the EU must do more to get Isaak free. I believe that Sweden should revitalise the issue with the help of its seat on the Security Council so that the International Criminal Court ICC can prosecute the Eritrean regime for crimes against humanity. Mr President, I would like to Too many people are being persecuted today for their faith and driven away from their homes under the most repulsive threats. Freedom of religion and belief is an important issue to take into account in the design of Swedish foreign policy. It is about freedom from coercion, freedom of expression and non-discrimination. Burma is a country in which human rights and freedom of religion are trampled on in the worst way. The minority rohingya has been called the world's most persecuted minority. There has been a conflict for decades between Muslims and the Buddhist majority. As we all know, violence against the Rohingya people has escalated, and hundreds of thousands of people have fled to neighbouring Bangladesh. However, the repression and hatred of the Rohingyes are so deeply rooted and pervade society as a whole that it is not enough to work towards the readmission of refugees in neighbouring countries. In our reservation, we Christian Democrats point out that the Swedish Government must do more to end the ethnic cleansing of rohingya. Mr President, I would like to There is much to be said about the oppression that is going on in the world around us and the need for increased support for those who stand up and struggle to make the world a little better, who are fighting for us not to stand in this House next year and say that freedom is in decline for the 13th year in a row. I have now explained the reservations of the Christian Democrats, which I naturally support. For time winning, however, I only apply for reservation 16.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-496	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and therefore rejecting all reservations. As my colleagues have said before, we stand here today in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament to debate the UN and human rights in Swedish foreign policy. In my speech, I will talk in particular horizontally about the UN and the part of the report that concerns Myanmar and China, and you will have to wait until Olle Thorell's speech. I once heard the UN being compared to democracy. It was an illustration that I enjoyed, and so I intend to present it here too. It is usually said – it was perhaps Churchill who said it first – that democracy is a terrible form of government, but of the people we know it is the best. In the same way you can talk about the UN. The UN is not perfect, but it is the system we have and the best of the m we know. Where would we be today if the UN had not been created, if peacekeepers had not existed and if the world had not had a common study to talk about? Having said that, Mr President, I do not, of course, want to dismiss the criticism that exists. Nor is it my role to defend the UN at all times. There are many things that need to be changed, especially from a Swedish perspective. It would be both naive and irresponsible for us not to try. There are 193 Member States, and they have a common voice. There are Member States from all corners of the world – so much now a round world can have corners – with widely different conditions and different history. It is an organisation where Sweden stands out as something rather odd, and that is us and kså. Furthermore, the UN is an organisation in which a small country on the northern edge of Europe has played a major role in its construction, history and present. This year and last year Sweden has a unique location to do something magnificent. These are the two years we have been given to bring Swedish into the UN Security Council. It is a Security Council which, perhaps more than ever, is characterised by polarisation and a climate of conflict-seeking rather than contact-making. Madam President, I would like Through its place in the Security Council, Sweden has taken a whole new approach here. During the month of April, the Security Council visited the former Secretary General Dag Hammarskjöld's farm Backåkra. It was the first time the Security Council held its working meeting outside the United States. This was shortly after the relationship between the USA and Russia in particular was at its frostiest when it came to Syria. We do not know exactly what was discussed during the meeting, but testimony afterwards has been able to show that the climate in the Security Council has become a different one. The Swedish UN representation in New York has begun to use a new concept, the Backåkra Spirit. Madam President, I would like Something we mention in the report concerns the number of Swedes in the UN system. We are the sixth largest donor country, but this is not reflected in UN posts. I am not one of those who think it should be an end in itself to buy seats or posts, so to speak, but the responsibility we show with financial resources, of course, we could take a step forward through people. I am therefore pleased with the initiative taken during this term by Sida and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to increase the number of Swedes both within the UN and within other international organisations and development banks. When we have Swedes in place in the UN system and in UN service, it is important to know that they are safe. Last year we were told that Zaida Catalán had been murdered in the ministry. What we are seeing today increasingly is not only that UN forces and UN missions are more vulnerable than before, but they are also targets. Respect for human rights and the symbol of them as the United Nations have been reduced in a way that we could not have foreseen just a few years ago. The investigation is still ongoing, and the report submitted by the UN Board of Inquiry in August recommended strengthening the protection of experts. The government has also pushed for clarity about what has happened and for the guilty to be prosecuted and convicted. Madam President, I would like Human rights developments in the world are going in the wrong direction, as we have heard here in the debate. In the news summaries, we can find out about abominable crimes against humanity and the principles of the rule of law. Here I could list a number of countries that are usually referred to as proof of this, but I am content to mention Russia. In 2016, Russia was placed in 148 out of 180 in Reporters without Borders Freedom of the Press Index. Laws to combat terrorism and extremism are widely used according to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' MR report to restrict freedom of expression, and self-censorship has increased. Freedom of association is limited, and the conditions for Russian civil society are serious. The report highlights the desire to see increased work on gender equality and the promotion of the rights of LGBT people, and I can only agree. When we see one group's rights being restricted, we can soon expect to see the same for more people. The use of terrorism as an excuse to restrict the integrity of the population has been seen in more places in the world, Madam President. Some leaders are well placed not only to take the necessary measures but also to extend them to the point where freedom of movement is severely restricted. Here we have reason to pay attention, I believe, and to try to ensure reasonableness when discussions are taking place on restricting the freedom of individuals in favour of their alleged security. Madam President, I would like Like my colleagues who have previously been in the speaker's chair today, I would like to welcome the release of Mr Fikru Maru, who has finally been released. I remember a campaign on Twitter quite a few years ago. That's when I just started using Twitter. The campaign concerned Dawit Isaak and consisted of telling them what they had done in the years when he had been imprisoned. I realized that I had graduated from high school, got my first job and got my first apartment. For 17 years, a lot of things can happen in the world. It is hard to imagine being imprisoned for such a long time, especially under conditions that we can assume he has. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I have a message for you. On my visit to New York and the UN in April this year, I met representatives of UN Ocha. If you google on it, you will find that it is the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid. One of the representatives asked me to express my thanks to Swedish taxpayers. If all countries had done as Sweden did in terms of aid and not direct aid to specific organisations or objectives, the world would look quite different. What he also wanted to say was: Never underestimate your own influence! That is, do not underestimate your own meaning! This was addressed to Sweden, but I think it can be addressed to each of us.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-513	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. With regard to Emilia Töyra's speech, I would also like to ask what the Swedish Government has done, now that Sweden is a member of the UN Security Council, to make the UN more effective and to ensure that we have a sharper and sharper UN. I would like to hear concrete examples, and I am not thinking of a conference that has been organised in Sweden. If I may ask the question, I would like to hear more about sharper measures.
i-DL8HM3JsEzuLjKNzYEhpbb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for the question! First of all, conferences are not merely ceremonial. There are other purposes for them as well. One can, for example, highlight different problem areas that are seen in thematic discussions. This is something Sweden has chosen to do during its time in the Security Council. We work with theme in a different way from what has been done in the past. That is something that has been met with some criticism, and some countries have not quite understood it. This is one of the things we have done. Instead of talking, for example, about the participation of women, it is the subject of the Security Council. It contributes to knowledge and, at the same time, highlights the specific benefits that exist with such a thing rather than talking about land areas that are in trouble at the moment. I do not know if this was the answer to Margaretas's question.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-518	Madam President, I would like No, that didn't answer my question at all. The fact that we are discussing land areas here today is because it is a report that looks like that. It has nothing to do with the Swedish Government, because it is Parliament's report. My question was about concrete action by the government for a more effective UN. Let me also ask: how many more countries have ratified the Rome Statute? What has the government done to ensure that more countries ratify it? What has the government done for more countries to ratify the Arms Trade Treaty? There are two areas that are very concrete in terms of improving world peace. Is there anything else? What has the government done here?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-519	Madam President, I would like Thank you for giving me another chance to answer the question. To give an example of purely concrete measures, we have now recently worked with Kuwait on Resolution 2401, which grants access to humanitarian aid in Syria. I think that is a fairly clear example of something that Sweden has worked out. We have made sure that we are pen holders in this regard, that is, those who are pushing the issue. Something that I think promotes efficiency but also shows the effectiveness that one can sometimes question whether the Security Council really has is to work with transparency. This is something that Sweden has brought into the Security Council from day one. This also applies to the appointment of a new Secretary-General. What are we going to do in those processes when you're going to add such items? Is it supposed to be transparent or not with these TV hearings that you've had? I think that what we are doing is good and that the information we bring out from the Security Council and from the Swedish UN representation is clear.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-523	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members and listeners! The UN is often criticised, not without reason, for inefficiency and paralysis. But to conclude from this that the world would do better without a world organization would be premature. The long driven ambition to act on its own – unilateralism – which distinguished the Bush administration led to the Irregular Iraq invasion in 2003, and this laid the foundations for the chaos in the Middle East that we are still living with. The United Nations, not the United States, should have overall responsibility for the fate of the planet if we are ever to achieve a rule-based world order in which all states, not only the most powerful, have real influence. The fate issues of our time, such as climate change, species death and nuclear arms, affect the entire human race – yes, the entire biosphere – and cannot therefore be resolved nationally, nor within the framework of supranational organisations of a more limited scope, such as the European Union, but the UN has its obvious and decisive role here. But if the UN is to be able to meet our high expectations, a profound and accelerated reform of the UN system, which, in its basic structure, continues to reflect the state of world power in 1945, when, for example, India was not even an independent nation. India is likely to become the world's most populous country in the next decade, and it is, of course, unreasonable that 20 times smaller countries such as France or the United Kingdom are permanent members of the Security Council but not this billion nation. It is also regrettable that the Security Council, with its only 15 members, weighs so much more heavily than the 193 Member States of the General Assembly. Madam President, I would like The report also includes a review of the human rights and rule of law situation in a number of countries where developments give cause for concern. The evil regime in Eritrea cannot be condemned enough. Now Sweden, the European Union and the United Nations need to put even more diplomatic energy into finally getting Dawit Isaak and other people in similar situations out of the dungeons where they languish. Probably needed for this both more of the whip and more of the carrot. The developments in neighbouring Ethiopia seem to have taken a certain turn for the better, with the release of imprisoned dissidents. But the road to democracy and the rule of law is of course very long, and genital mutilation and other sexual violence against women continue to be widespread. This is also true in neighbouring Somalia, but the recent parliamentary and presidential elections are, after all, giving cause for some cautious optimism about developments there in the future. Madam President, I would like In Russia, it is currently difficult to point out some parameters that are developing in the right direction in terms of democracy and the rule of law. Yesterday's murder of Putin-Critical journalist Arkadij Babtjenko, who, to some extent, took place outside Russia, more specifically in Kiev, was not only an atrocious atrocities against a very brave individual, but also an attack on what remains of the freedom of the press in Russia, where, not least, self-censorship is increasing as regime-critical reporters and publicists are murdered. This sad day for the free word, there is reason to remember Jurij Sjtjekotjichin, Pavel Makejev, Vagif Kotjetkov, Anastasija Baburova, Natalja Estemirova and dozens of other murdered Russian journalists, who apparently often worked for opposition media such as Gazeta Novaja and whose cases are rarely properly investigated but are laid down in – as it is called – lack of evidence. The situation of other vulnerable groups, including LGBTQ people, ethnic minorities and violent women, is also deteriorating in Putin's Russia. In spite of this compact darkness, however, there is no reason to despair about the situation in our large neighbouring country, where developments have often been marked by sudden and unexpected throws. Unless, for biological reasons, for constitutional reasons, Russia approaches inexorably the time when leaders who, like Putin, are not formed by the Soviet system. Here it is appropriate to recall the distinction between authoritarian and totalitarian states. Both are certainly far from democratic governance. But in the authoritarian state, a certain degree of autonomy for civil society is, after all, allowed. In this zone not fully controlled by power, the seedlings of democracy can one day begin to germinate. The Soviet Union was a particularly totalitarian state, where a paralysing fear of power lay like a wet blanket across society, while today's Russia is, after all, a decidedly more pluralist society in terms of such things as the relative freedom of universities and the opportunity for citizens to travel abroad. In addition to large corporations controlled by oligarchs, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises is growing. It is therefore hoped that there will be some opportunities to develop different forms of people-to-people contacts between Sweden and Russia in the form of, for example, municipal partnerships, cultural exchanges, contacts between professional groups and government cooperation on, among other things, protecting the Arctic environment and improving nuclear safety. Madam President, I would like Many of what can be said about developments in Russia also applies to China, where the new authoritarian President Xi Jinping pursues a policy which, in short, is characterised by external aggression and repression inwardly. A system of so-called social credits is under construction. It promises various benefits to so-called decent individuals, but in practice it threatens to become a huge system of control of citizens, whose actions and sounds and preferences in our digitized time are often read by virtual tracks on the net. The South China Sea seems to be more or less regarded by the Beijing leadership as a Chinese inland sea, as clearly illustrated in the newest Chinese passports, which are illustrated by an illustration depicting the so-called Nine Dots line, that is, the nine-point line located far out in the Pacific, which constitutes the boundary of what Beijing regards as a natural Chinese sphere of influence. China's defence budget, according to recent statistics from Sipri, has increased by as much as 110 percent over the last decade, and today it accounts for 13 percent of global armaments costs, which is only surpassed by the United States. But even in China, state and society are not entirely synonyms. Here too, there is some room for manoeuvre for civil society groups and organisations, not least in the environmental field, and it is essential that the outside world cultivate relations with them. A beautiful example is the English-Chinese environmental dialogue China Dialogue, which was launched a number of years ago by British environmental journalist Isabel Hilton. It is valuable that human rights and the rule of law are at the heart of the EU's China Strategy. The fact that the struggle for the release of the imprisoned Swedish citizen Gui Minhai is now also being pursued at the highest EU level may hopefully prove decisive. Cooperation on the deployment of renewable energy, high-speed and other green infrastructure where China is the world leader should also be given high priority in our bilateral relations as well as in the relationship between the EU and China. The vast new Silk Road project, the Belt and Road Initiative, which China invests heavily in politically and economically, brings Chinese and Europeans closer together and holds both risks and opportunities. In his thought-Bruno Masce The Dawn of Eurasia: On the trail of the New World Order – Eurasia's dawn: In the wake of the new world order – it is about time that we began to formulate thoughts about our common home from the end of the European supercontinent. Madam President, I would like Finally, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-536	Madam President, I would like Like everyone else, I have highlighted some cases of imprisoned journalists and Swedish citizens in dictatorships. I will focus my eight-minute speaking time on this and, of course, on the situation of women. Unfortunately, many Swedish citizens have been kidnapped abroad and captured by regimes that do not provide much for freedom of expression and human rights. For example, we have KI researcher Ahmadreza Djalali who has been imprisoned since 2016 and sentenced to death in Iran. The Swedish publisher Gui Minhai has been imprisoned in China without any legal process or representation since autumn 2015. We have several other Swedish citizens who have been imprisoned in other countries. We also have examples of cases such as the doctor Fikru Maru, who was recently released after five years in Ethiopian prison, but also Johan Gustafsson who was imprisoned in Mali. Dawit Isaak has been furthest incarcerated without prosecution or conviction. For unimaginable 17 years, the Eritrean regime has held him captive. He has not been allowed to meet his family, not a lawyer or any Swedish diplomats for the whole of these 17 years. Although extensive efforts have been made over the years, Dawit is still trapped. We are cross-party Members who believe that it is time to put together the various efforts made for Dawit Isaak and others in order to be able to know which working methods work best. Of course, Sweden must press for the release of Dawit Isaak, Ahmadreza Djalali and Gui Minhai. In fact, Dawit Isaak and the condemned Ahmadreza Djalali risk their lives already as it is, with quiet diplomacy or not. That is why I believe that after so many years we owe Dawit Isaak an insight to see if there are strategies and experiences from other cases to test. No matter how hard and knowledgeable the Ministry for Foreign Affairs worked, new eyes can see new things. At least there's nothing to lose from it. Unfortunately, quiet diplomacy has been ineffective. Dawit Isaak deserves a prestigious and complete analysis of what has been done and what you can and also want to do in the future. In addition, we need all the knowledge that can be obtained for the future as we are not guaranteed that additional Swedish citizens cannot end up in captivity abroad and therefore need the most professional help both they and their families can get. We are more members of parliament from different parties who for a number of years have written motions about Dawit Isaak regardless of the government color. We propose that the government appoint a commission of inquiry to investigate the cases of Dawit Isaak and all other imprisoned Swedish citizens captured in dictatorships. It is also important to point out that totalitarian regimes such as Turkey should not be allowed to use Interpol as their extended arm to silence opponents who have fled the country. We have examples of the Swedish citizen and journalist with roots from Turkey Hamza Yalcin who was imprisoned on Turkey's orders when he was on holiday in Spain. He was released under pressure. I think we need to be clear that Interpol is not used by dictatorships to silence journalists and oppositionists. Since today it is the UN, human rights and the role of Sweden that is being debated in this House, I would also like to highlight the situation of children and women in many of the countries that are actually members of the UN. In fact, many countries that are members of the UN are dictatorships. The laws of these countries are barbaric. This applies, for example, to children, women and homosexuals. There are child marriages, forced marriages, death sentences, sexual abuse and genital mutilation. Death penalty occurs in Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia. Unfortunately, these are just a few examples. There are even more, not to mention the slavery of workers and sex slavery directed at children and women who occur in India and many other countries that are all members of the UN. Finally, I would like to say that Sweden must use its vote in the Security Council to demonstrate the feminism that the government has as its foreign policy profile and to be a vote for women's rights and equal value for all. I therefore agree with the Left Party's motion and with the reservation we have. Unfortunately, some of the Members have not highlighted our multiparty motion, which has been dealt with by the committee. I would like to mention the demands put forward in the motion on Dawit Isaak. It is very important that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Government review their methods and the work they have done so far. Unfortunately, quiet diplomacy has been ineffective. We must use the voice that has always been Sweden's when it comes to women's human rights, freedom of expression and democracy. Dawit Isaak is a journalist. He's written critical articles. This applies to the publisher Gui Minhai, many others and also in the case of Hamza Yalcin. He wrote critical articles about Turkey even though he was imprisoned in Spain. We must be very clear about this. What do we use the UN and the Security Council for if it is not for human rights, women's rights and equal value for all?
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-550	Madam President, I would like I will devote my speech to developments in Myanmar, namely Burma, and China. China is if not already as soon as the world's largest economy. It is a growing world power that is taking more and more space not only in the world economy but also in world politics. China's development and the relationship between China and the rest of the world will be crucial for the whole of global development, both economically and politically. China's economic development has been outstanding in recent decades. Hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty. That achievement is, of course, of tremendous importance. China is now growing in power and influence in the world. But power also comes with responsibility. China is a one-party state without free and universal elections and does not allow any political opposition. Unfortunately, in recent years there has been a backward trend in respect for human rights and freedoms. This is a very worrying development. Democracy activists, human rights defenders and minority representatives – all who somehow organise themselves outside the state and the control of the Communist Party – are experiencing an increasingly smaller space to act on. The death penalty is used on a horrendously high scale. Exactly how many people are not known, but these are certainly thousands of people who are executed in China every year. Freedom of the press is extremely limited, developments in Hong Kong are worrying, the Communist Party strengthens its grip on development and freedom of expression is extremely limited, not least through the self-censorship of both journalists and ordinary citizens. The Internet is strictly monitored. And do you know how many security cameras there are in China? 180 million — about one camera in every six Chinese! Recently, we have enjoyed the release of Swedish citizens who have been imprisoned or kidnapped, such as Johan Gustafsson and most recently Fikru Maru. In China there is also a Swedish citizen imprisoned, Gui Minhai. Our message is clear: Gui Minhai should be released immediately and given the opportunity to meet Swedish diplomatic and medical staff. We expect the government to continue to work unabated with regard to the release of Gui Minhais. Sweden's relationship with China is important. It is important that we have good relations with such a large and influential country. Our trade with China is large and will grow in both directions. That is a good thing, but we must also be clear and consistent in our criticism of the negative developments we are seeing in China regarding democracy and human rights. I am therefore pleased that we have so much agreement in our committee and throughout the Swedish Parliament to point out these shortcomings and be clear in the values we have in relation to China. Dialogue we believe is the way forward, and exchange between countries at different levels we believe is moving forward. Isolating oneself from the outside world, not talking to countries and regimes and putting forward the criticism we have, even if they are far from our values, only leads to solitude and increased mistrust. Another country where developments have gone backwards is Myanmar/ Burma. There we all had high hopes for better democratic development after Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, was finally released and her party the NLD gained power and influence. Now, a few years later, not least for the Rohingy people of western Burma, it is appalling. Although Aung San Suu Kyi is de facto head of state, the military holds an iron grip on large parts of society. The ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity that have apparently been committed since 700 000 of the Muslim population of Rohingyes have been expelled from their homes is something that must have consequences. Responsibilities must be demanded. Violence must stop. Refugees must be given the opportunity not only to return to their devastated villages but also to live their lives in freedom without the risk of persecution, violence or harassment. We have mentioned six countries in the report. I have mentioned two in my speech, Burma/ Burma and China, and I could talk for a long time about the situation in Somalia, Ethiopia, Russia and Eritrea. Let me conclude by mentioning two names. The first is Arkadij Babtjenko, Russian journalist, shot in Ukraine. It is a sign that freedom of the press, freedom of expression and democracy are under threat not only in Russia but in many places in the world. We honour his memory by continuing to work for freedom of expression and freedom of the press in all the countries of the world. The second name is Dawit Isaak, imprisoned Swedish citizen in Eritrea for over 16 years. He must be set free. It's been too long. We Social Democrats have a simple slogan in terms of foreign policy and human rights. We say, "Freedom of all peoples." The peace of the whole world. That slogan is still valid today.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-564	Madam President, I would like The fiscal framework includes a number of objectives and principles aimed, in particular, at ensuring that fiscal policy is sustainable and transparent in the long term. It also aims to clarify how Sweden meets the requirements of the EU's Stability and Growth Pact and the Financial Framework Directive. I will not go through the whole of the letter that we are now debating here, but would like to begin by stating that we broadly agree on the fiscal framework. The framework has been established in broad agreement on the central role of fiscal policy for sustainable public finances, financial stability and long-term growth conditions for Sweden. We in the Alliance have, however, issued a joint, specific opinion underlining the importance of compliance with the content of the letter. We also point in the opinion to criticism of the government and the question marks surrounding how the principles set out in the framework letter are applied by the government in its decisions and priorities. At the beginning of this term of office, initiatives were taken to update the framework and its various elements, the result of which was a cross-block agreement as described in this letter. As I said, we are behind the agreement and have nothing to recall about the letter. But there are question marks. Criticism of the government's approach to fiscal policy during the past term of office has been harsh at times. The Swedish National Audit Office's report Application of the fiscal framework states, among other things, that the Government does not justify how the size of active fiscal policy and the direction of fiscal policy have been balanced in relation to the cyclical situation. This is also the point on which the Council of Finance Ministers strongly criticises the government. In its 2018 report, the Council considers that fiscal policy is not balanced against the economic cycle and that the government has placed too little emphasis on the surplus target in adapting fiscal policy to the current economic situation. The government has justified its expansive fiscal policy on the grounds that there is reason to support monetary policy. However, there is nothing in the framework that indicates that such a recital would justify a departure from the principle of a countercyclical fiscal policy. The Council considers that the government's forecasts for the coming years are too optimistic. There is a lack of transparency about which assumptions the government makes and how they affect the government's calculations. This applies in particular to the impact of assumptions on equilibrium unemployment on the assessment of potential GDP. The Swedish National Audit Office also agrees with the criticism of the lack of transparency. Madam President, I would like As I said, the framework has been revised. The two most important changes are the reduction of the surplus target to one third per cent of GDP on average over a business cycle instead of one per cent and the introduction of a debt anchor. The agreed structure is such that the surplus target will be reviewed every eight years, and the institutionalised review will consider, inter alia, the level of public debt in relation to the debt anchor. We are in favour of these changes being made and want, while at the same time consolidating the position of the framework as the governance year for economic policy, pointing out the importance of all parties being behind the framework and also helping to maintain credibility in the same way. Having said that, we do not believe that it is appropriate to discuss how the surplus target may need to be further reduced in the future even before the new and lower surplus target begins to apply. Madam President, I would like I am not here to create debate on the content of the framework. We agree on that. I would like to take this opportunity to draw Parliament's attention to the importance of the framework for our country's prosperity and to the fact that the framework also commits itself to practical action and political priorities.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-576	Madam President, I would like This debate is essentially about a purely technical decision to be taken following the entry into force of the new Administrative Act. As can be seen from the bill, there are currently no provisions on when building permits, demolition permits or ground holidays may be carried out. This means that, according to the rules that have been in force so far, such a decision can be enforced before it has become final. If the decision is abrogated after an appeal, the measures must be restored. It is a cost and a risk taken in such cases by the applicant. In the context of the new provisions on enforceability in the Administrative Act, unless special rules are introduced in the Planning and Construction Act, the legal situation for the clearance decisions will be changed so that they need to have legal force before they can be enforced. This would lead to unnecessary timing in the construction process, Madam President. We therefore agree with the government that an adjustment in the PBL is needed to address this. On the other hand, we cannot support the conclusion reached by the government, namely that a four-week time limit for enforceability should be included in the law. The bill shows that the construction process will be delayed by such a decision, marginally – but still. The fact that the government is making proposals that will de facto delay the construction process is totally unacceptable. Moreover, the only argument we have heard from the government to set a deadline of four weeks falls quite flat, as in the vast majority of cases the construction operators themselves choose to wait for a final detailed plan. They do so because there are real risks of starting a construction, demolition or groundwork before the whole legal process is completed. It is, of course, linked to the cost of restoration. Madam President, I would like At a time like this when we have a major housing shortage, it is important that all forms of housing policy decisions are aimed at simplifying fast and sustainable housing construction. Therefore, in our opinion, the decisions of the Lov should be enforced immediately. This means, in practice, that the legislation continues to work on this point as it does today. We therefore believe that there is no reason to introduce a time limit for enforceability. Madam President, I would like In view of today's dysfunctional housing market and the enormous housing shortage, it is unsustainable for the government to present decisions that extend the construction process. One might think that a few weeks do not make a big difference on the whole, but I mean that one has not really understood the problem. The Moderates would have opposed a bill even if it meant that the process would be extended by a single minute. What is needed is a holistic approach to housing policy, not continuing to philander the margins. Then it is a matter of shortening the process, not just by a few weeks or months, but by whole years. We will therefore never agree with a proposal that explicitly delays the construction process. With this, I would like to support the joint reservation of the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-585	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs' report 13 The enforcement of decisions on building permits, demolition permits and land permits is, in all its knaster dryness, about the possibility of implementing these granted permits four weeks after the decision has been announced, even if it has not gained legal force. The aim of the proposal is to balance the possibility of initiating measures against the possibility of appeal and of requesting inhibition before the measure has been implemented. In my view, there is a perfectly reasonable balance between the need to speed up the construction process and the individual's rights under the rule of law. Like I said, we're talking about a window of four, I say four weeks. Consultations such as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquities Office have stated that an order of immediate enforceability can cause irreversible damage to natural and cultural values and that, in some cases, an appeal process can be pointless. In the second instance, the Law Council, for its part, stated that the proposed four-week deadline would strengthen the rights of the individual. Madam President, I would like We are all – I think – inspired by cutting lead times in the many times too long construction processes. In particular, the management of society is an essential part of these long processes. But that ambition cannot be given priority at the expense of either the individual's rights or the inalienable values of nature and culture. If an appeal at a later stage wins a process, it will in most cases mean that that gain is set against a fait accompli, i.e. a completed fact that cannot be reversed in a reasonable and complete manner. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-591	Madam President, I would like Sweden has four constitutions: the form of government, the succession order, the Freedom of the Press and the Freedom of Expression Act. Today, this House is dealing with comprehensive and important proposals concerning two of them: the Freedom of the Press Regulation and the Basic Freedom of Expression Act. They provide the basic rules of the game for all forms of mass media activities in our country, including printed writings, radio, television and some of the Internet websites. These are the broadest reviews of these two constitutions that have taken place in decades. That is why important decisions will soon be taken by this House. While there are broad reviews, it is important to point out that the proposals now on the table of this House do not involve any radical changes. Rather, it is a matter of changing to preserve. The fact that the proposals are comprehensive in terms of volume is due to the fact that there has been a thorough examination of the language and structure of the two constitutions. TF and YGL are both characterised by a language that is partly obsolete and a not fully accessible structure. This together means that it can be relatively difficult to take on board what is stated in the constitutions if you are not an expert in the field. That is why it is good and important that this review has been carried out. At the same time, there has been an ambition to preserve some formulations that have a long history of freedom of the press in our country and which therefore not only bear a certain legal content but also have a kind of cultural historical value. Sweden was given its first freedom of the press regulation as early as 1766, and the other year the 250th anniversary of this world's first constitution was celebrated for the protection of free speech. Sweden thus has a strong and proud tradition of freedom of expression and press, and it is important to protect and highlight it. Therefore, as I mentioned, no changes are proposed to the basic principles underpinning the Freedom of the Press and the Freedom of Expression Act. It is often referred to as the basic bolt of the system, which refers, among other things, to the freedom of establishment. Anyone may, for example, publish a newspaper without permission. The principle of exclusivity means that offences of freedom of expression and print may be prosecuted only if there is support in the Constitution. The ban on censorship and obstructing measures means that there must be no prior examination by the State. No other measures to otherwise prevent the publication of a publication may be implemented. Loneliness means that one person at a time who is criminally responsible for what is written in a newspaper.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-602	These are central building blocks in the system of freedom of expression and printing, and they are preserved. You can also add jury trials to them. We have a special court order for press and freedom of expression cases based on a jury system in contrast to how the Swedish legal system otherwise works. However, if these building blocks remain, some changes to the substance of the Constitution are proposed. What gives rise to the most debate, and which has led to much debate over the past year, is the proposal that it should be possible by law to prohibit the publication on the web of personal registers containing certain particularly privacy sensitive personal data, if made available in a manner that poses particular risks of infringement of the privacy of individuals. There is a great value in the fact that constitutional changes are normally carried out in broad consensus in our country. However, the broad consensus that is usually sought is lacking with regard to the part of the Government's proposal that makes it possible to prohibit search services containing personal data on the fact that individuals have committed criminal offences, appear in criminal convictions or have been subject to criminal proceedings. Given that there is no broad agreement on this part of the proposal, the KU proposes to reject that part of the proposal. As I see it, the debate showed that there were parts of the proposal that were difficult to defend and that there was therefore a need for a move. This should not be misinterpreted as there is a disagreement as to the value of personal privacy and that it needs to be protected. It is important to emphasise that search services providing personal data on criminal offences and similar circumstances constitute a serious interference with the privacy of individuals. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag announce to the Government that an investigation should be tasked with re-examination of the issue of limiting the constitutional protection of search services containing that type of personal data. It is important that the scope of the constitutions is clearly defined and that this is taken into account in a forthcoming investigation. In the case of registers containing other privacy-sensitive personal data, however, the committee supports the Government's proposal. Today, anyone with the support of a certificate of publication and thus under constitutional protection can in practice provide the public with personal registers with the names and addresses of persons of a certain ethnic background, a certain sexual orientation, a certain religious belief or a certain political opinion. It is not reasonable for that possibility to exist. Under the present system, individuals are at risk of suffering harm. At the same time, there may, of course, be information on, for example, the political opinions or religious affiliations of individuals themselves made available by publicly assuming political positions of trust or certain positions of employment, which may give rise to a different assessment. Religious opinion is rarely secret from a priest. To publish searchable data collections of municipal politicians or who are priests in the Church of Sweden can hardly in itself constitute an improper restriction of integrity. Madam President, I would like The committee agrees with the government's assessment that it should be possible to stop the publication of personal files containing sensitive personal data according to an exhaustive list. These are data on health, sexual orientation, political opinion, religious affiliation and the like. Those who do not voluntarily publish that type of data shall not have to tolerate their publication in register form on the internet and thus become searchable and accessible to anyone. However, in order not to increase the scope of the exemption from constitutional protection beyond what is justified, a delimitation must be made of which search services are concerned. One of the starting points is that the registers should pose specific risks of unauthorised interference with the privacy of individuals. An overall assessment shall be made on the basis of the nature of the registers. According to statements in the bill, there is reason to pay particular attention to whether a search service is targeted at a broad public. This view is not shared by the Constitutional Committee. The KU believes that there should be no distinction between whether a service is addressed to the public or whether it is addressed to a particular professional category. A search service that addresses the general public can in itself mean a greater breach of privacy than a search service that is only open to a smaller circle. But even a search service that addresses a particular profession may become available to a very large number of users. The committee therefore does not believe that the target group itself should be given any importance in assessing whether a collection of data falls within or outside the constitutionally protected area. Instead, the assessment should be made on the basis of the purpose of the provision of the data collection and the nature of the data provided. Infringements of privacy arising from data collections provided for the purpose of contributing to the free exchange of views and free and comprehensive disclosure cannot be considered inappropriate and should, as a starting point, fall outside the scope of the provision. Another issue, raised in the proposal and in the report, concerns the so-called inherited sin. If a newspaper receives a new responsible publisher, the new publisher will also bear criminal liability for articles that are on the newspaper's website but were originally published before the publisher took office. It can of course be about materials that are many years old. It has then been stated from the publisher's point of view that it is not reasonable for a new publisher to bear the criminal liability for publications in which he was not involved. At the same time, there is a legitimate interest in the person who has been subjected to a crime of pressure or freedom of expression to act as long as a task, such as defamation, remains on a website. As long as the task is available online, anyone in the world can take part of it. It is therefore proposed to use a middle-way approach. The starting point is that the criminal liability for an internet publication should remain as long as a task remains online. However, if a person considers himself or herself to have been slandered by a published task, the individual or the Chancellor of Justice, who is a press prosecutor, may contact the publisher and say that a certain information on the website may constitute a breach of freedom of expression and request the publisher to remove the information from the website. If the publisher does so within two weeks, he or she cannot be held responsible for the information if it can be assumed that it was published more than one year before the notification was made. If, on the other hand, the publisher refuses to delete the data, a new publication is seen to have been made, and thus criminal proceedings can be taken. In the debate on this proposal, it has been argued that it may be difficult to prove when a particular opinion has been published online, and some have suggested that there is a risk that the proposal will create the possibility of publishing, for at least two weeks, criminally, data which, for example, constitute slander by claiming that the publication took place more than a year ago. It is therefore important to establish that there is no criminal publication period, and that there is a rule of proof to make it easier for JK and an individual plaintiff to refute a claim that it has been more than a year since publication. I believe that this strikes a reasonable balance between the interests of publishers and individuals. Madam President, I would like In addition, the report also deals with a number of general exercise exercises. The Moderates are behind reservation 7 on countering hybrid warfare in the form of propaganda, and I call for approval of that reservation. Within the EU, Russian television broadcasts aimed at Russian-speaking sections of the population of the Baltic countries have raised the issue of the functioning of the so-called AV Directive. Russian television companies are established in some EU country, such as Sweden, to operate exclusively to the Russian-speaking audience in the Baltic countries. One example is a satellite programme service that can be received in the Baltic countries through a satellite uplink at the Kaknäs tower. This program service is thus under Swedish jurisdiction. In our opinion, an investigation should look at whether the basic law on freedom of expression should provide for an opportunity to intervene in the further transmission of a range of propaganda aimed mainly at media consumers in another EU Member State and forming part of hybrid warfare. In conclusion, Madam President, the proposals for changes to the Freedom of the Press Regulation and the Freedom of Expression Act mean that we have constitutions that are more modern and accessible than they have been, which solve some problems that have been outstanding for a long time and which, at the same time, safeguard the fundamentals of press and freedom of expression law that form part of Sweden's constitutional heritage since 1766. With this in mind, Madam President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the report in the parts relating to amendments to the constitutions and, in addition, to agree to reservation 7.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-628	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 and reservation 2 of the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like The time for the old media monopoly on information and absolute truths has long passed. For several years, we have been able to see new players emerging at a rate that is in fact unprecedented in modern times. The media landscape that is now emerging is just as frightening to some as it is to others. It is, of course, frightening for those who have felt confident about the truths that have been served us for many years, which have been about exciting challenges, economic gains and skill rains from the Middle East and northern Africa. But it is welcome for those who have long seen through all these lies. The government's bill used terms such as a serious, investigative journalism- it would never be affected by the new restrictions proposed. Who would decide who was serious and who wasn't, does not matter to me personally. This is simply law that does not belong in a democratic country. The Swedish Democrats were also the first party to criticise that very wording. In our follow-up motion, Madam President, we write this: Should the bill go through in its current form, the Swedish Democrats see a risk that the public will end up in a situation where different media are arbitrarily graded on a floating scale and, by extension, given different conditions, rules and tools for conducting different forms of scrutiny. Nor were we alone in our criticism of the government's proposal. For example, the Chancellor of Justice felt that the regulation proposed for this purpose was too imprecise and therefore unacceptable. Other heavy-duty bodies, such as the Court of Appeal of Skåne and Blekinge, the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency, the Faculty Board of Law at Uppsala University, Swedish Radio, Swedish Television, the Swedish Journalist Association and the Newspaper Publishers, rejected the proposal. The Court of Appeal of Skåne and Blekinge stated that the proposal was contrary to the fundamental principle that constitutional protection is linked to the use of certain media and not to the content of an opinion. The Court of Appeal even went so far as to say that the proposal was contrary to the ban on censorship. The Swedish Journalist Association saw a risk of application difficulties when it came to determining whether a data collection is provided within the framework of traditional media activities. Madam President, I would like I am therefore pleased that the other parties also realised this problem and finally chose to change their minds and, at least in some parts, to subscribe to the views of the Swedish Democrats. Even with regard to the government's original proposal that the intended target group should be relevant to the assessment of the goods or not of different databases, the committee has chosen a different path. In the report, the committee now states that the target group, i.e. the intended or actual user group, should not in itself be given any importance in assessing whether a data collection falls within or outside the constitutionally protected area. This is a view shared by the Swedish Democrats. The government's original proposal, if interpreted by malicious legal practitioners, is in danger of creating a class society in terms of precisely the availability of information, where, for example, large media houses with economic muscles could be given an information advantage in relation to other actors as well as to the general public. The right and the ability to review power or control important information must never be a question of who has the most resources or who is the sender or, of course, who is the recipient. At the same time, it is probably not very daring to claim that the very cause or origin of the current proposal was primarily about the purpose of closing down companies and businesses such as Lexbase and the like. Of course, such companies, Madam President, are not entirely unproblematic. Commercialising and profiting from making data and information available free of charge to everyone is hardly what the principle of public access was for when it came into existence. The committee, which has now abandoned the reasoning on serious investigative journalism and on the target group to which the database is addressed, has instead chosen to talk about the purpose of a data collection. But, Madam President, for the Swedish Democrats, this is also an unfortunate way to go. In practice, two identical or closely identical databases may ultimately be assessed differently: one is deemed to have an acceptable purpose, and another is not deemed to have it. The committee's position states that the assessment should be made on the basis of the purpose of the provision of the data collection and the type of data provided. If the aim is to contribute to a free exchange of views and free and comprehensive information, the database falls outside the scope of the delegation provision. If, on the other hand, the purpose is assessed as something else, there is a risk that the publication of the data will actually be prohibited. The risk is simply that the purpose assessment will be too arbitrary. Although it may sound attractive to ban operators with so-called murky aims, with the proposals now before us, there is an excessive risk that this will lead to us citizens continuing to be identified in huge databases for the purpose to be deemed legitimate. But how do the Swedish Democrats want to solve this problem, Madam President? Yes, instead of talking about the purpose, the starting point should be that it is the data as such, as well as how they are compiled, that should be assessed. It is surely known to most of my committee colleagues in this room that I and my party take privacy issues very seriously. The Swedish Democrats are therefore opposed to the massive survey that goes on every hour of the day, not only here in Sweden but throughout the world, of Swedish citizens. We are to some extent protected from the public, that is, the state, but private companies are given much more leeway to map the lives and lives of Swedish citizens. The principle of public access is absolutely central to us, but as technology develops, so must the law. In our opinion, therefore, a new investigation into protection against the disclosure of certain personal data should be set up. Such an investigation should take careful account of the difficult balance to be struck between transparency and people's right to a private sphere. In our opinion, the investigation should review the possibility of introducing disclosure obligations when certain types of sensitive personal data are requested, similar to that currently in force in the case of credit information, for example, but also how the right to be forgotten can actually be strengthened. The starting point of Sweden's democrats is that both the media and the public must have good access to public documents in order to be able to review the public, while at the same time there must be strong protection for the individual against mapping and intrusion into the private sphere. The study should therefore also be given the opportunity to look at the principle of public access from a broader perspective in order to achieve these two objectives. It may also be reasonable to examine whether there are data that are both public and public today, but which might not be. The central thing must be the right of everyone to be able to examine the public – to review our authorities and to examine us in power. Madam President, I would like I would also like to spend a minute talking about the other aspects of the report. The idea of constitutionalising freedom of expression is to demonstrate how important it is for democracy and to protect it and democracy particularly well. The foundation on which democracy rests is popular rule. It would therefore be nice if the constitutions governing popular government and its basic principles were to say something about the people who are actually to rule. We in the Swedish Democrats have stated in our Committee Movement Grundlag that the form of government, modelled on the constitutions of other European countries, should begin with the story of Sweden as a country and the Swedes as a people. We have also pointed out that recent constitutional revisions of the concept of Swedish citizens are to be reversed in favour of substantially broader concepts which are to be reversed. We are therefore opposed to the Government's intention now to extend the concept. The Swedish Constitution must of course refer to and be enjoyed by Swedish citizens in the first place. In addition, all or part of the corresponding protection and rights laid down for citizens may also be granted to anyone who is otherwise subject to Swedish law, unless otherwise provided by other law or regulation. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the bill to be rejected in this part.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-651	Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on what Jonas Millard said about the bill concerning the publication on the web of registers with sensitive personal data. Jonas Millard said that he opposes the fact that the bill does not take its starting point in the content of the data but that one should look at the purpose of the publication of the register. I would just like to draw Jonas Millard's attention to the fact that the text of the law itself is based precisely on the content of the data. It clearly states that the draft law only applies to registers containing certain, well-defined, types of sensitive personal data. These are data that reveal ethnic origin, skin colour or other similar relationship, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs and trade union membership. This also applies to data relating to health, sexual life or sexual orientation and data consisting of genetic or biometric information in order to unambiguously identify a natural person. It is therefore very sensitive personal data that if they are published in a searchable personal register on the Internet means a very serious breach of privacy for all people in the register. This could be, as has been noted in the social debate, a register of Jews. One can imagine a doctor who steals patient records to get revenge on the county council and puts up a register under the heading, Which diseases do your neighbors have? Search here! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Genetic and biometric data we also know can be used to map individuals in a very interventional way. I would just like to point out that, with Jonas Millard's attitude, it would be possible for a further four years to apply for publication certificates for web pages in order to publish this type of data. I think that would be unacceptable.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-655	Madam President, I would like Thank you for pointing out, Andreas Norlén! We are, of course, aware that it is the content of the data and how they are compiled that should be looked at. However, there is a purpose terminology that is used. As Andreas Norlén himself mentioned in his opening speech, it is a question of free exchange of views, but in the end there will be some kind of assessment. It will be an assessment of the purpose, and what I think is unfortunate is that two identical registers could actually be covered in different ways. It could be landed in the conclusion that it either falls within the constitutionally protected area or does not, for the purpose. I think it risks becoming too arbitrary. I think that I and Andreas Norlén, and the rest of the committee, are very much in agreement that, of course, this type of data should not exist if it is very sensitive to privacy. At the same time, we have a principle of public access, and there is a great deal of information that those who have financial and human resources can obtain free of charge. The compilation aimed at mapping is, of course, something we can access, but I do not think that we will be able to do so in this way. I believe that there is a risk that you will end up in an arbitrary assessment where you begin to review the purpose of different types of search services, and I fear that we will land in that conclusion.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-658	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to establish that searchable personal records with this type of very sensitive data, as far as I am aware, do not exist at all, or to a very small extent. It is therefore a question of preventing something that could become a serious problem if such registers were to be built up and disseminated. However, we see that there is a significant problem, for example, with the anti-Jewish websites that exist, where there have also been published names of different Jews. One can imagine similar in other contexts, i.e. other types of ethnic origin or political opinion that could be suspended in registers in a similar way. But I would like to stress that the point of departure is that it is the content of the data, which is carefully defined in the law, that is the starting point. In the vast majority of cases where a personal register containing this type of data exists, the register is already likely to be so privacy-impaired as to be affected by the proposed ban. Hence, there will never be any discussion of the purpose. Instead, the aim discussion is to create a valve for the – probably hypothetical – case of a register of this type of data being used for a legitimate purpose. I find it rather difficult to see how it could be done and how it could be, I can honestly say – except in the cases I mentioned in my speech, where the individual voluntarily and by acting in different ways has published his political opinion or, for example, by taking employment as a priest or similar, his religious opinion. However, the starting point for Jonas Millard's position is that for another four years it would be legal to publish, for example, Jew registers, searchable on the web.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-663	Madam President, I would like Had we been listened to earlier, this problem could of course have been dealt with much earlier. We wouldn't have had to wait four years at all. In addition, the Swedish democrats have made quite far-reaching proposals regarding personal integrity in general. I therefore believe that we really want to achieve the same thing, but that it is perhaps a question of different paths and different methods of solving this. With regard to the current case we are discussing, I have said before that I think that the purpose discussion can be unhappy. Suppose, for example, that a mass media wants to maintain a sensitive register of sensitive personal data within the framework of its other media activities. It might then be possible to see in the application of the law, when it is examined, that there is a purpose to promote a free exchange of views. I do not want us to take that risk, and unfortunately I believe that we will do so after we have adopted this bill. We'll have to come back in a few years and see where this has landed. I hope that today we will still take a decision that will strengthen personal integrity and that we will move forward in it. I think we have interesting discussions on this in committee, and I hope that we can continue along this path.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-666	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee has been working for two and a half months on the amendments proposed by the Government to the constitutions on freedom of the press and freedom of expression and data protection legislation. Today, we are debating the amendments proposed in the bill Amended basic media laws. Like other members of Parliament, I have received many emails from people arguing to stop some of the government's proposed amendments to freedom of the press and freedom of expression legislation. The proposals in the bill Amended media fundamental laws, with changes in legislation, are based on the Media Basic Law Report. Members from all parties in the Riksdag almost unanimously supported the investigation's proposals. The background is the EU's data protection regulation, which came into force on 25 May this year – a few days ago – and then replaced our Personal Data Act, PUL. PUL was a law that contained several gaps in the privacy protection investigation and the government believes that Sweden's residents should have. In order to implement improved privacy protection, changes are needed both in the Freedom of the Press Regulation and in the Basic Freedom of Expression Act. Since these are constitutional laws, parliamentary decisions are required twice with parliamentary elections between them. Most agree that access to and use of registers of sensitive personal data, such as ethnic origin, health and political membership, should be strictly regulated. According to the EU Data Protection Regulation, registers of sensitive personal data are in principle prohibited. However, exceptions are proposed mainly for the right of public authorities and journalists to handle such data. The fact that journalists in their professional role will continue to have access to personal data registers is due to the fact that, in their professional role, they are subject to a responsible publisher who has criminal responsibility for the publication of offensive and sensitive data. According to the bill, companies like Lexbase would not be allowed to compile judgments for a person or for individuals in a residential area in a computer register and sell the data in future. Of course, the idea remains that all convictions should remain public, but it should not be possible to compile those in data registers – which may become offensive data. Sweden, when implementing the EU's old Data Protection Directive, came to create a gap in the protection of privacy by providing that what was then PUL would not apply in the area of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. This allowed anyone to obtain a publication certificate for a website and create a loophole in the strict protection of personal data, because it was then possible to post personal data in this way online. This gap and other legislative gaps in the protection of sensitive personal data were thus intended to close the new legislation. Following the criticism of the Lexbase ban, the KU has made changes to the bill so that it is removed in that part, but in the other parts the proposals put forward by the government are implemented. The Center Party retains its view that the privacy of individuals needs to be better protected. The constitutional protection that Lexbase has in current legislation needs to be limited, but the modalities for this need to be investigated. The Center Party is one of the three parties in the KU behind reservation 7 in paragraph 8 on combating hybrid warfare in the form of propaganda. In this reservation, we highlight Russian television broadcasts aimed at the Russian-speaking population of the Baltic States. These broadcasts are via a satellite link at Kaknästornet in Stockholm, and they can be received from there in the Baltic countries. These consignments are now protected by the EU's AV Directives. The KU has examined the criticism of the proposed legislation on basic media law that has been put forward. We have taken on some of the criticisms. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of the proposal contained in the KU report, with the exception of the fact that we are calling for reservation 7 in paragraph 8.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-676	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by expressing my regret that there is a risk that I will exceed my speaking time, but I will certainly reduce at least as much my speaking time on the next point. Andreas Norlén has explained the content of the report and I am therefore going to concentrate on just a few parts of it. I will begin by discussing the issue of the principle of public access, freedom of expression and expression and integrity. The principle of public access is crucial to maintaining our democracy. It is a guarantee of legal certainty, fair administration and popular governance, as it allows the public to have a public view and can also control the public. The freedom of the press and of expression also ensure that the information held by the authorities and made public can be disseminated. At the same time, the protection of privacy is also an important part of a democratic rule of law. That is why our constitutions protect personal integrity, the principle of public access and freedom of expression and press. Sometimes the important principles conflict with each other, and there must be constant balance. Strengthening personal integrity in the constitutionally protected area can mean weakening precisely the freedom of expression and printing. Safeguarding the principle of public access may constitute an interference in personal integrity. The purpose of the principle of public access and freedom of expression is for the power to be scrutinised, not for the conditions of individuals to be spread. For example, it is important to be able to review how healthcare systems work, what the conditions for employees look like, not least what the conditions for decision-making politicians and senior officials look like. It is also important to be able to review, for example, how representation is used, how regulations for ancillary activities work, and what other tasks the managers may have. At the same time, personal integrity must be protected. In health care, for example, the patient's medical history, family situation and sexual orientation are involved. Nothing of such a kind shall be public. I think we all see that as self-evident. There are also clear ethical guidelines among the media on these issues. Printed newspapers are not a big problem. When freedom of print and expression was regulated, only printed newspapers existed among the media. Now there is a completely different situation. Online search services may also seek certificates and be protected by the specific rules applicable to those with certificates. The idea is that the newspapers should be able to write about things that are of general interest. In some cases, this may constitute an infringement of someone's personal integrity. For example, it is perfectly all right to publish data about those in power in a completely different way from people in general. We have heard examples in the past that it is quite obvious that political opinion should be made public by elected political representatives. I think that all of us who are here want to be in a register on Parliament's website so that we can be known. That goes without saying. For a few years now, various forms of online search services have emerged, where anyone can find out for free, or for a sum of money, everything from housing address, taxed income, property ownership to any criminal record. These services are carried out on a commercial basis and collect information on individuals from public documents and registers. Several of these search services have obtained certificates of release. This means that they have constitutional protection and that they are not covered by the Personal Data Act's regulations on protection in the processing of personal data. When pure personal data falls under the constitutions and is not covered by the personal data regulation, there is a high risk that individuals will suffer from serious privacy breaches. While the founders of such services have earned plenty of money from them, it has become increasingly difficult for people who, for example, have served a sentence to go on in life, to support themselves, and to live among the rest of us who have not served a sentence. In addition, victims and witnesses have been exposed. Children of convicted persons have been exposed and subjected to bullying at school, for example. This new situation calls for a new balance to be struck. The Left Party believes that the proposal put forward by the government in the bill is broadly good, but it has raised many questions and a great debate. Many have understood that the intention has been to restrict the principle of public access. That's not true. The principle of public access must remain in place, as in the past. All courts must remain subject to the principle of public access, and judgments must be public. This is important in order to be able to review the functioning of the justice system. On the other hand, there are proposals that this type of search register should not have constitutional protection. In the debate that followed the proposal, it is clear that misconceptions about the proposal have spread and that misinterpretations and errors have taken a strong hold. It is an advantage if there is a great deal of agreement on the constitutions, and it is important that it is clear and understandable how the regulation of the law looks and should be interpreted. Now that it has turned out that it is difficult to understand, a new investigation should be carried out. Therefore, the Left Party supports the announcement of a new investigation on the restriction of the constitutional protection of search services that contains personal data on the fact that individuals have committed criminal offences, are involved in convictions or have been subject to criminal proceedings. On the other hand, the Left Party does not share the committee's view on the protection of whistleblowers in publicly funded activities. I therefore support our reservation No 5. More and more publicly funded activities are being carried out under private supervision. It is important that it does not prejudice transparency and an open debate on how our tax funds are spent and how publicly funded activities are run and developed. Enhanced communication protection means that employers are prohibited from researching who in the organisation has provided information to the media and subjecting this person to action as a result. This provides security for those who provide information about their activities and helps to detect abuses more easily. This, in turn, can lead to an increase in the quality of the activities and to a strengthening of the position of the users. Greater transparency in the use of tax funds can also lead to more efficient use of our common resources. The report on strengthening the protection of private employees in activities that are wholly or partly publicly funded, as it was called, presented in spring 2017 a proposal on which more areas would be covered by the Swedish Communications Protection Act. The opinion of the Left Party is that the investigation narrowed down the definition of what is to be regarded as a publicly funded private-sector activity far too much and that far too much attention was paid to the interests of private companies in relation to the interests of the public, citizens and workers. For example, we believe that pharmacies, supplementary actors to the Swedish Public Employment Service and air traffic controllers should also be covered by the Swedish Communications Protection Act. Those in need of pharmacy often find themselves in a vulnerable situation, and medicines are a large public cost. It is an area that is clearly regulated and should therefore be covered by this law. The employment agency's clients can be regarded as a vulnerable customer group, as it is now known, and in the case of complementary actors it is an immature market with a lot of rogue companies; this has been pointed out, among other things, by the Public Employment Service itself. Data is already being provided to the audit unit, but this could increase significantly. Several rogue companies have been reviewed in the media, but anyone who goes ahead and reports risks being questioned. Although private employees in publicly funded aviation activities are not common today, this could become much more common in the future. It is a bit unpleasant to imagine that those who see shortcomings in that activity, which is so central to aviation safety, would not dare to report and proceed with it for fear of research. Therefore, a new investigation in this area would be entirely reasonable. We have another reservation in this report about the expression of cross-border gender identity or cross-border gender expression. But we discussed this a lot two weeks ago, and then we also had a vote on the matter. That's why I don't lift that reservation. Madam President, I would like As I said, I'm sorry about the time suit.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-699	Madam President, I would like The polite tone of this committee is always kept. The world is constantly changing, Madam President, and often it is fast and revolutionary. This may be particularly true in the media sector, and I am talking about both production and distribution and consumer behaviour. Often the changes also take place in an intricate order where it is difficult to determine who or who drives what. Therefore, it was not at all wrong for the government to review the media fundamentals and present a bill that contained suggestions on how we can, among other things, guarantee both openness and integrity in a changed society. Like the parliamentary inquiry that preceded the bill, the committee supports the proposal in many respects, but, as we know, it did not go all the way. I am convinced that a major reason for Sweden's stability as a nation is that constitutional changes are carried out in broad consensus. As you know, that consensus was lacking with regard to the Government's proposal that it should be possible to prohibit search services containing personal data on the fact that individuals have committed criminal offences, are involved in criminal convictions or have been subject to criminal procedural coercive measures. At the same time, the committee believes that search services providing personal data on criminal offences and so on constitute a serious interference with the privacy of individuals. This is where we find ourselves in a well-known dilemma: where is the intersection between the openness of society and the integrity of the individual? I am therefore pleased that the committee does not propose a direct right to the proposal for a change in the basic media law, but is doing half-life and instead proposes that the Riksdag announce to the Government that an investigation should be tasked with re-examination of the issue of limiting the constitutional protection of search services containing sensitive personal data. We share the government's view on the delegation rules in the other parts – it is not reasonable for anyone today to be able to provide the public with register-like data collections with, for example, the names and addresses of persons with a certain ethnic background, sexual orientation, religious belief or political opinion. It is clear that individuals are at risk of harm if such information is available in online search services. At the same time, publication of searchable data collections with, for example, Members of Parliament's political opinion can hardly be an improper restriction of privacy. In fact, I believe that any one of us who would not be covered by such a register would regard it as offensive. This should therefore give rise to a different assessment. In the event of the publication of comments on the persons in connection with the data collection, they may be assessed in accordance with the relevant provisions on, for example, slander or illegal threats. In order not to increase the scope of the exemption from constitutional protection beyond what is justified, it is also necessary to define which search services are to fall within the scope of the provision. The committee is opposed to making a distinction between whether a service is addressed to the public or to a particular professional category. A search service addressed to the public may involve a greater breach of privacy than a search service that is only open to a particular profession, such as lawyers. But even a search service that addresses a particular group may become available to a very large number of users. Therefore, the target group itself cannot be given any importance in assessing whether a data collection falls within or outside the constitutionally protected area. That assessment should instead be made on the basis of the purpose of the provision of the data collection and the nature of the data provided. Infringements of privacy arising from data collections provided for the purpose of contributing to the free exchange of views and free and comprehensive disclosure cannot be considered inappropriate and should therefore be considered as a starting point to fall outside the scope of the delegation rules. It is also very important that a significant margin is applied to what falls within the constitutionally protected area so that the interest in freedom of expression must not give way to the interest in protecting the integrity of individuals in border or difficult to assess situations. Pure search services for the provision of sensitive personal data according to the exhaustive list in the provision are far from the purposes for which the constitutions are intended to protect, and such services are therefore subject to delegation rules. But, Madam President, the Liberals are persevering here, as we did in the Media Basic Law Committee, in a reservation on the part of the proposal relating to the limitation rules and the responsibility of databases. The government and the committee maintain a system whereby freedom of expression offences in a database will continue to be regarded as an ongoing crime as long as the material is provided in the database and that the limitation period will continue to run only after the material has been removed. This means, in fact, that the person who assumes responsibility as the publisher of a database may also be liable for old material - or for damages. But, Madam President, a short limitation period has been regarded at all times as a safeguard for freedom of expression and pressure, and we stand by it. We know that there are rapid shifts in perceptions of what is appropriate to say. What was okay to read as bedtime stories to me was not okay for me to read to my children. Reality is shifting rapidly. Therefore, we believe that it is not reasonable for the content of older materials which are only made passively available through a database to be assessed according to current standards on what is admissible. The Liberals believe that the issue of rules on the limitation periods and liability of databases should therefore be re-examined in the near future. With this, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 4.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-713	Madam President, I would like Former Members, not least the President of the KU, Andreas Norlén, have explained in detail the amended media fundamental laws. I agree with what they have said on the basis of what the committee has written in its report. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved, and also for reservation 7, Madam President. But there are also a number of exercises that we have to consider. One of them has a Christian-democratic character, and I would like to lift this. It's about freedom of communication in preliminary investigations. The constitutional freedom of communication means that everyone has the right to provide normally classified information for publication in the media. However, in the context of a number of high-profile criminal cases, as we know, there have been leaks from the preliminary investigations and the police themselves. In the opinion of the Christian Democrats, it is not reasonable for individual police officers to be able, for their own benefit, to disclose information that could harm an ongoing investigation and thus make the police's work more difficult. Legal certainty is threatened by this abuse of freedom of communication. For this reason, the Christian Democrats believe that the government should review the protection of informants in preliminary investigations and police interventions. I am in favour of this reservation, but for time-winning I am not in favour of it. On the other hand, I am making reservation 7 on combating hybrid warfare in the form of propaganda. We know that modern warfare takes place not only with weapons in hand on the battlefield, but well so much through propaganda warfare and similar measures. We know that the Defence Committee in December 2017 submitted a report to the Minister of Defence dealing with impact campaigns such as information warfare. We in the Moderates, the Center and the KD want to pay particular attention to the situation of the Baltic States. A not insignificant part of Russian propaganda is precisely television broadcasts addressed to the Baltic States. There you use Swedish territory and a satellite uplink at Kaknästornet. Therefore, these software services are subject to Swedish law and jurisdiction. This is problematic. We do not want our country's territory to be used for Russian propaganda against the Baltic states. In our opinion, an investigation should be carried out to review the relevant parts of the YGL in order to create the possibility of introducing, by means of an ordinary law, provisions to intervene against the continuation of the broadcasting of a range of propaganda mainly aimed at media consumers in another EU Member State and forming part of hybrid warfare. This should be investigated by the government.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-719	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I had the privilege of taking up the role of a member of what became the Media Basic Law Committee. This was the first time I had the opportunity to work on freedom of expression and press issues during my political work and also my political science work. I have to say that I was very taught by the committee, but I was also rather unsure whether certain things in our legislation were really right. I was surprised when I heard in a conversation that in Sweden there were perhaps about thirty people who were sufficiently trained and experienced to master the Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Act as possible grounds for court action and to understand current case law and procedural law around these matters. I also got a thinker when I read a scientific work from the professor and now the Supreme Court judge Thomas Bull, where he compares the freedom of speech foundation of six real democracies. I then found that Norway and Finland have a regulation in their constitutions that gives a general direction to the freedom of expression and its limitations, but then they have certain specially qualified rules for the formation of legislation. However, the application of the law is mainly in ordinary form, i.e. corresponding to our criminal code. These are, of course, countries which, in many respects, have a reality similar to ours in terms of freedom of expression. I have not come from the fact that this became a starting point for me. I also found that in the investigation we were working on something that was absolutely important. Johan Hirschfeldt and his colleagues worked to modernise the editorial form, and to some extent the language form, of the Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Act. Both of these laws are therefore today perhaps somewhat easier for teachers, for example, to use in both primary and secondary schools, and even at university level, to understand the core issues. We are living at a time when freedom of expression is under attack and strain and where even the really deep democracies have problems, including in terms of personal integrity and what has been mentioned about hybrid fake news and so on. But I also understood that the biggest challenge is digitalisation. Our dear old freedom of the press regulation, whose predecessor dates from 1766, and its cousin's freedom of expression law, which came into existence much later, is all the way down the road. Are they relevant from the 1990s, when so many messages between people are delivered in digital form and do not reach the printed book, script or newspaper, or go out over the radio medium, including the television medium? I believe that this is in reality an ever-unsolved fundamental problem for us: our fine old constitutions regulate the printed word and the word transmitted through the ether to radio and television broadcasts. You notice this when you follow the bill and the investigation we had, and you also notice it when things happen alongside the investigation. We recently learned that what is called the Public Press Ombudsman has come together with an equivalent in order to create a common ethics review body for newspapers, the television medium and indeed also those opinions that are delivered over the Internet but where there is a publisher's certificate. Another part of our report deals with a uniform responsibility for the publication of a book. Currently, it is normally the author who is responsible for the book in printed form while a publisher may be responsible for the book in digital form. Now the responsibility basically passes on to the author. It makes sense. But this shows that we will not be able to resolve these issues properly when we have different constitutions for different forms of publication. Now, of course, digital consumption is completely dominant if we look at how many minutes and hours a day a person living in Sweden devotes to his reading. From this also emerges some of the problems which have been highlighted and which lead us Social Democrats to agree with the position that we should not now resolve the issue of Lexbase and the like, but instead ask for an investigation of the issue. That's good. It is a tricky regulation that the proposal was. It will be difficult to resolve this; I am convinced of that. Nevertheless, I hope that it will be borne in mind that, in the long run, we must have more uniform freedom of expression legislation in Sweden, which is more technology independent, as it is in Norway and Finland. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that there is a motion relating to hybrid warfare. As far as we are concerned, of course, we are concerned about hybrid warfare or information aimed at influencing the state of society of a nation over which there is no sovereignty. But we believe, like the Defence Committee, where I have had the opportunity to work together with representatives of all eight of our parliamentary parties, that it is better to start a process in a total defence perspective, including the new authority that we intend to set up corresponding to the old Board of Psychological Defense, and create a picture of technology, content and international relations and then try to find a solution regionally and globally. Only then can we raise the question of changes to our constitutions. In doing so, I therefore propose rejecting that reservation and approving the committee's proposal in the report on Amended basic media laws.
i-2WyFquRyJFgLyz7khFRrT5	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU16 report, Amended basic media laws. It is a report on the government proposal, on the one hand, and on a number of motion requests and a declaration by the KU. I must begin by agreeing with Björn von Sydow that even with today's decision, we still have a long way to go before we have the same protection in digital media as in the printed texts. I believe that a great deal of legislative processes will be needed before we get legislation that is perfectly mature to protect us online, but it is progressing. The parliamentary Media Basic Law Committee, with representatives of all parliamentary parties, worked for a long time to investigate issues in the field of freedom of expression and press. It was about the protection of the privacy of databases with certificates of release, the rules on limitation and responsibility for information in databases and the need for a delegation provision in the constitutions for product information. They also had an additional directive to look at how regulation on so-called neutral tobacco packaging relates to the Freedom of the Press Regulation and to propose amendments to the Constitution. The Committee's report Amended basic media laws were submitted in September 2016. The report has been referred to, and the referral was essentially positive. In connection with the investigation, the Green Party had a lot of thoughts about the so-called inherited sin for responsible publishers. We thought that the principle should have gone further and that the responsible publisher at the time of the publication decision should be the one to assume responsibility for any press freedom crime process. At the same time, however, we believe that the current draft constitutional amendment is a step in the right direction, as the so-called original sin is shortened from virtually endless time to one year. Otherwise, previous speakers in this debate have explained the content of the proposals. Nevertheless, I would like to mention the point that has well come to dominate the debate since the Government left its proposal to Parliament. There have been courtship, regular e-mails, many mass-produced e-mails and other forms of courtship from people who felt that there were ambiguities in the government's proposal to reduce the possibilities for databases such as Lexbase to freely publish large, searchable records of sensitive data. I do not think that the proposal at the time would have led to difficulties in obtaining information on whether someone was convicted of a crime. All judgments would continue to be public documents with the amended proposal. Instead, I believe that the draft legislation dealt with the demarcation of privacy and freedom of the press by introducing the possibility of preventing searchable registers for the public covering precisely this type of data of a particularly privacy sensitive nature. I have to admit that I was prepared to support the proposal put forward by the government, and I regret that we did not reach all the way through with full legislation. At the same time, however, I hope that a new investigation will be able to sort out any remaining questions and move the positions forward. Now we agree to ask the government to re-examine the matter. With this, I call for the KU's proposal to be approved.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-737	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations in this report, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 2 and 4. Today's debate is a little extra nice and fun to hold. After all, we are going to deal with a committee initiative with a content that is actually close to the heart of the Swedish Democrats. It's about our royal house, our flag days and our public reward systems. Unfortunately, we were not invited to the discussion that preceded the committee initiative itself. In the following, I will therefore extend the text a little bit as to what would be appropriate as an additional directive to the Committee. As regards the reintroduction of a system of words, we note that there should be a review of the public reward system. A parliamentary committee shall review and, if necessary, make legislative proposals regarding the arrangements for awarding the various rewards of the government and administrative authorities. The review will include a series of medals, the name of the professor award, the state award for zeal and integrity in the service of the kingdom, and the medals of the Armed Forces and the Swedish Police Authority. The review shall also take into account the royal medals. So far, so good. On the other hand, we are extremely sceptical that so-called gender equality and diversity aspects should be taken into account in the review. The point of a state reward system is that good deeds and zeal should be encouraged. You shouldn't be awarded medals because you happen to be a man, because you happen to be a woman or because you're born somewhere else. In addition to the work of the Parliamentary Committee, consultations shall also take place between the Royal Court. the order of May and the representative of the Committee on amendments to the Statutes of the Statutes of the Statutes; This consultation shall be carried out in order to develop the statutes of the Order of Vaasa and the Order of Svärd, and in order to adapt the statutes of the Order of the North Star to enable its awards to also be awarded to Swedish citizens, and in order to consider a change in the degree of the existing arrangements and how the arrangements should be carried out. Madam President, I would like This is, of course, excellent. That's good. The Committee shall also have the task of reviewing the Royal Flag Days. Allow me, therefore, to propose a supplementary directive in which a complete overhaul of the system of flags and flags is carried out. Today there is a regime whereby the appearance of the Swedish flag is regulated by law, while the flag days are regulated by a regulation. Nor are there any rules governing when the authorities should flag or even which flag should actually be used. Instead, the issue of flagging individual authorities is the subject of individual decisions by the head of authority. Many authorities are also flagged today with, for example, the EU flag or with political and ideological flags, such as the Pride flag. The Swedish flag is a symbol for Sweden, and hence also for our Swedish authorities. All flag rules should therefore be in place and laid down in a common flag law. The flag law should contain rules on the appearance of the flag, which flag days should be considered official and that authorities should only fly the Swedish flag and other government-specific flags. There is also reason to look at whether it should be prohibited to desecrate the Swedish flag. The EU flag and other non-official flags should never be on Swedish public buildings. The flag law should focus primarily on authorities and official buildings. We believe that private flagging should, of course, be encouraged rather than imposed. Madam President, I would like The importance of national symbols for a country cannot be stressed enough. In order to strengthen national anchoring and the national sense of citizens, both the parliament and the government should work towards increased exposure of national symbols in official contexts. For example, when the president of the United States speaks on television, there is often a national symbol — the American flag — next to or behind the platform. The Committee should therefore come up with a proposal to strengthen the national sense by increasing the exposure of national symbols. Madam President, I would like Finally, something about national holidays. The Swedish culture is unique and its expression is also unique. This applies to what can be seen with the naked eye, such as our cultural landscapes or national flags, but also our explicit or unspoken rules of social association. One thing you may not think about very often is how we as people choose our holidays. In order to protect these holidays from clumsy EU politicians or cultural-relativist politicians at home, they should be laid down in constitutional law. The charter should regulate Swedish holidays and state that they are based on a historical foundation that can be non-confessional, Christian or pagan. In doing so, we should once and for all pattern the first of May and replace it with another day, preferably the second day Pentecost or Engelbrektdagen or any similar day with a corresponding connection to the Swedish heritage.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-753	Madam President, I would like I shall be brief in this speech. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, which concerns the review of the public reward system. In this report, there are announcements about a parliamentary committee to review the reward system, the flag days and the design of Parliament's appropriations to the court. The Left Party has exercised that it should review the grant to the court. We want to abolish the monarchy, but we want to review, pending it, how the funds for the court look and how they are regulated. For example, we have proposed that you as Head of State should have a fee and that funds should be set aside as grants for representation and the like, as we have for our Prime Minister, for example. It is therefore a good thing to look at how the money is to be regulated and how the funds are to be designed. It is also reasonable to review the general days of the flag in connection with it or in the past. I do not think, however, that politicians should decide exactly which flags should be used in different authorities and how the municipalities should generally get the flag. It is the national flag days that should be reviewed in this context. On the other hand, the Left Party believes that there is no reason to reintroduce a reward system that was considered obsolete back in 1975. We cannot see that something has happened that makes there is reason to reintroduce arrangements in Sweden in the way presented here. The fact that you have an investigation that looks at how society pays attention to people who have done things is one thing. But here it is explicitly said that this investigation will bring the order system back in. We think that's mossy, don't we? That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-758	Madam President, I would like At a time when confidence in our society is challenged by populist forces and foreign interests, it is important that we cherish our community. At a time when there are forces that pull our society apart, it is important to create counter-forces that bring us together and show that we see, appreciate and learn from each other. Against this background, it is very gratifying that six parties – the alliance parties and the government parties – have entered into an agreement whereby a parliamentary inquiry will analyse a number of issues relating to the public reward system, public flag days and the grant to the royal house. It is also gratifying that this initiative, when presented to the Constitutional Committee, was supported by additional parties, apart from a reservation that we have just heard from the Left Party and which concerns part of the initiative. Apart from that, however, the initiative has the support of the whole committee. I think it is a strength for Swedish democracy that we can also come together in an election year when the political temperature is high when it comes to issues that, if possible, should not be the subject of political struggle. Our parties are obviously approaching statehood from various ideological points of view. However, we stand behind the Torekov Accord, which preserved the monarchy, but deprived the monarch of all formal political power, and were given the primary task of representing Sweden, together with the other members of the royal house, as a national symbol. For the Head of State and the Royal House to play these roles in the future, the legitimacy and trust of the Head of State institution must be maintained. Several other monarchies in Europe are discussing whether it is justified to delimit the circle of persons of royal birth who are expected to carry out official missions and who may thus claim access to measures financed from the State budget. It is reasonable that such a discussion should also take place in Sweden. The Swedish royal house has in recent years gained considerably more members. It can be noted that strict rules for marriage, mere male succession, high infant mortality, and poor medical care made the number of heirs of the royal house not so great at any time in history. It has now changed. The royalcourt now consists of 15 people, 11 of whom have the right to inherit the faith if you include the king. In the next generation thereafter, one can expect a further number of heirs. If, in a future, all of these were to act as official representatives of Sweden and have activities financed by Parliament's appropriations, this would be a relatively large group of people. This would risk undermining the legitimacy and trust of the royal house. We therefore want a parliamentary inquiry as one of its assignments in consultation with the Court to consider how the Parliament's appropriations to the Court can contribute to the official commitments of the Royal House being carried out primarily by a limited number of its members. We want principles to be drawn up for how this is to be done. It is not reasonable to see that the amount of the grant would increase as the number of heirs reaches adulthood. Instead, it should be defined which persons in each family should primarily carry out the official duties. Another issue of national symbols, which is also linked to the question of legitimacy, concerns the flag days. Today is the general day of the birthdays and days of the Head of State, the Head of State and the successor of the throne. It can be discussed whether there is a broad popular anchoring for so many Royal Flag Days, and we therefore agree that the next change of throne should reduce the number of flag days so that only the birthdays and name days of the Head of State and the successor of the throne become flag days. I would also like to dwell on the public reward system. It is about events, medals and other awards that are awarded on behalf of Sweden in various forms. These are important national symbols and also important tools for creating, as I was at the beginning, forces that bring us together and show that we see and appreciate each other. This system was last reformed in the 1970s. At that time, the possibility of giving Swedish orders to Swedish citizens was basically abolished. Two of the orders, the Order of Vaasa and the Order of the Sword, were declared dormant. At this time, Swedish citizens received their order awards more or less automatically if you were a civil servant or an officer. When one achieved a certain number of service years and had a certain level of service, one received one word, regardless of how one had performed one's assignment. This was, of course, an unreasonable system that had solidified in its forms, and it was reasonable for it to be subject to widespread criticism. At the same time, my view is that it was a mistake at the time to completely abolish the possibility of giving Swedish orders to Swedish citizens, and I am pleased that we can now change that relationship. It is quite obvious that it has gradually become more and more accepted in our society that individuals who perform extraordinary efforts are highlighted, encouraged and appreciated for it. Sports gala, music gala, cultural prizes, entrepreneurial prizes, prices for the best fellow human being and much more have emerged in recent decades, and that illustrates precisely, I think, the value and importance of paying attention to individuals who do something out of the ordinary. Now I think most people agree that it seems a little strange that Sweden's top official awards cannot be given to Swedish citizens but only to foreign citizens. Should a foreign soldier save the life of a Swedish soldier in an international effort, we can reward the foreign soldier with a Swedish order, the finest award Sweden can give out. However, a Swedish soldier who makes an equivalent effort cannot receive a Swedish word but receives a medal from the Swedish Armed Forces. I do not know of any other state that treats its own citizens differently in this way. A starting point for the review is therefore that Swedish citizens should be rewarded within the order system and that awards of awards within the Vasa Order and the Svärdsorden should be resumed. As before, we see that the formal decision on awards is made by the organization that is the principal of the Order system, the Royal. May's Order, but that it should be at the foreword of the government. In practice, it will thus be the government that decides who can get a word. At the same time, it is important to strengthen popular support for the order system and public rewards in general. This should also review the possibilities for individual citizens to nominate other individuals for reward. I think it is important to state that this is not about rewarding an elite in Stockholm but that it is about Sweden showing appreciation for people at local, regional, national and international level who have made extraordinary contributions to our country in the fields of culture, the Swedish Armed Forces, state administration, science, the media sector and business. There may be many different efforts that deserve to be noticed and rewarded by Sweden, and it is then important to find criteria and systems so that this really becomes a reward system that gets a broad popular anchor and also pays attention to efforts and achievements across the country. I am convinced that the various proposals contained in this reform package mean that we can strengthen our community and trust in our institutions and thus build a stronger and more cohesive Sweden in different ways. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-777	Madam President, I would like The Chairman of the Constitutional Committee really caught the heart of what has driven us six parties – the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats – who have worked to present an announcement on these issues. I got a reprimand from the bench. I guess I forgot about the Green Party. I would like to add that to the list, Madam President. It is about focusing on positive things and safeguarding and developing the community that we see we all need. It aims to look at what can be done to ensure that the institutional components of the community can also be adapted in time. Our parties have approached the question of government from various ideological points of view. However, we support the compromise called the Torekov compromise. It lies as one of the foundations of the form of government and preserves the monarchy, while at the same time depriving the monarch himself of all formal political power and, instead, having as its primary task, together with other members of the royal house, to represent Sweden and be a national symbol. It is in this light that we have found that it would be right to delimit the number of members of the royal family who have duties to fulfil the role of government. That is how we think we are reforming Sweden in time. The Royal Family in general, like all of us, should think about studies and work and combine it with a good family life and a commitment to society in the way that suits both orientation and position. The parliamentary inquiry will therefore work in consultation with the Royal Court and see how the Parliament's grants to the Royal Court can contribute to the official commitments of the Royal House being carried out primarily by a limited number of its members and draw up principles for this. We have also dealt with an issue which has been raised and which has a similar character. It is a matter of general flag days. Our President has gone into this and I would like to add one thing. We received for this Parliamentary Session a motion from Yasmine Larsson, the Social Democrats, with a request that we celebrate once this year, on 17 December, when it is 100 years since the Riksdag took the decision in principle to introduce universal and equal suffrage in Sweden for women and men. This was then done after a few years. We think it's a worthy way to celebrate. As dramatic as what happened in the Swedish parliament these days is what happened in the Swedish parliament when Norway declared in 1905 that it left the union with Sweden. It stood and weighed: Would these events and crises be resolved by peaceful means, or would there be the use of violence? They managed to get away from this in real life. It also succeeded in establishing stability by both the then left-wing parties and the then right-wing parties making compromises on the requirements of the negotiations with Norway and on how the rules on voting rights should be drafted. Madam President, I would like The foresight of this became apparent when Sweden was later subjected to great trials and it was possible to form a government of unity during the Second World War between the parties that both 1905 and 1918 had put the common guard battle for peace, and thus also for equal rights, as a matter of heart. Therefore, I hope that we will accommodate a flag day this year. There will be an investigation. It will have to think about whether it will be so in the future too; the investigation should have free hands to do so. But the fact that we are now achieving this feels like a significant manifestation of one of the most important and at the same time critical parliamentary resolved social conflicts in our Sweden's development. With this, I would ask you to support the committee's proposals in all its parts.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-789	Madam President, I would like We are now debating KU28 Public holidays, etc. It is a rather unusual report; it is, of course, a purely exercise report with motions from general exercise time. The normal thing is that you reject most things, and occasionally you approve of something. This time the Constitutional Committee has taken on a slightly larger mandate in order to actually do something more than just look at the individual motions. The committee proposes, with the support of the right of initiative, three announcements on a parliamentary committee on the public reward system, the general flag days and the design of the grant to the court. The committee also proposes an announcement of a temporary flag day on the occasion of the breakthrough of democracy. The Parliament plans to celebrate the 100th anniversary of democracy in the next four years, and a flag day will be another way to celebrate the amazing thing about democracy. I am not sure that we have had a temporary flag day before, but if it is at some point that we should start doing something, it is precisely to celebrate our democracy. We propose that the other motions be rejected. We refer mainly to previous positions. Several previous debaters have been involved in the debate on public reward systems, which have long traditions and traditions but have not really followed with their time. There is also a need for a review of the design of the allocation to the Court of Justice. I think it is good that we now have an opportunity in an investigation to shed light on these issues and go a little deeper. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-796	Madam President, I would like I could be very brief in this small speech. I would like to begin by fully agreeing with what the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Andreas Norlén, and the Vice-President of the Committee, Björn von Sydow, have said about the committee's initiative and the background to the four initiatives that the Constitutional Committee is now presenting in this report on public holidays. We use the right of initiative of the parliamentary committees. The announcement of a parliamentary committee to investigate the public reward system, the general flag days and the design of the grant to the court is based on an agreement that has been reached between parties in the Riksdag. It is intended that the detailed formulation of these proposals will be presented in a parliamentary inquiry and that the proposals will later be implemented. The announcement of a temporary flag day in connection with the breakthrough of democracy is based on an S-motion to Parliament. A while ago, here in Parliament, we have held a meeting of the group working on the commemoration of the democratic anniversary that we are to celebrate from 2018 to 2021. This temporary flag day would be 17 December this year, because it is the day that the Swedish Parliament decided on the implementation of democracy. The idea is that the celebrations will last until 2021, when the first female members took place in the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report with these four committee initiatives on the investigation of the reward system, the general flag days, the grant to the court and the temporary flag day on 17 December 2018.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-799	Madam President, I would like I would also like to begin by agreeing with Andreas Norlén's and Björn von Sydow's comments. As you know, we work in the KU. As has been said, this report concerns issues relating to the public reward system, flag days and flagging, but it also concerns issues relating to the EU flag, Sweden's national anthem, national symbols, public holidays, a civil courage prize and the memory of Harry Nordlund. The major event, however, is undeniably that we are proposing an announcement of a parliamentary committee to investigate the public reward system, the general flag days and the design of the grant to the court. With this in mind, we in the Liberals believe that our motion for a review of the official reward system to reintroduce the possibility of awarding official orders to Swedish citizens is well treated. The liberal motion was written precisely because we believe that each nation needs a reward system to express the public's thanks to individuals who have performed services of a particular kind in the various areas of society. This does not mean that the Liberals advocate a return to the period of knighthood and the social view of the past on rank and standing. Nor does it mean that we as fellow humans should not help each other unless we receive a medal as a reward and as a thank you. This means, however, that we see that the present system of the state's reward system is fragmented and outdated. Sweden needs a well-thought-out system, which is adapted to current needs, in order to ensure that individuals who have carried out public service activities of a particular kind can be recognised. For example, it is completely unreasonable that it is not possible to distribute orders to Swedish citizens, but they remain to be distributed to foreign citizens. At the same time, our armed forces are constantly increasing their presence and participation in international efforts. Since, in the vacuum of Swedish rewards for Swedes, there has been a need for the possibility to reward efforts, today we have a confusion of different and incomprehensible systems. It is with this that we want to get right through this committee initiative. It is also to be hoped that the motion for an announcement to the government to pay appropriate and dignified attention to the aforementioned Harry Nordlund – he was by the way the only Swedish pilot killed in an air battle over Swedish territory during the Second World War – which the committee today rejects, would not have had to be written if the proposed revision of the reward system had already been carried out. Mr President, I would like to As a Liberal, let me say on the grounds that whether you are a Republican or a monarchist is a review of the general days of the flag and the allocation to the court, as the committee has now announced, quite reasonable and necessary. I stand behind the Torekov compromise, which we here usually debate whether or not I do. It works well. However, we must be able to have a discussion on how to demarcate the circuit of the royal house which is expected to carry out official missions for the country and which can therefore also claim both flag days and funds from the state budget. This wise committee also proposes an announcement of a temporary flag day in response to the breakthrough of democracy. As is well known, on 17 December this year it is 100 years since the Riksdag decided to introduce universal and equal voting rights in Sweden. The decision was preceded by many years of hard struggle in the voting rights movement, where liberals and social democrats stood on the same barricade. It is thanks to this struggle that I can stand here today to debate. That is why I very much agree with the motionary that commemorating the centenary of the reform of voting rights should be celebrated as the national concern. Mr President, I would like to As an actor, I could make a long speech in support of the Scanian flag. However, I choose for the time being to conduct this debate outside this Chamber so that hopefully in a few years' time I can come back with a new announcement from the KU, in which case the neighbouring red-yellow flag will be given official status.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-811	Mr President, I would like to In good and very broad agreement, the Constitutional Committee proposes reforms that strengthen and unite our country. All parties, with some exception, are involved in all the details, including the order system. Then the question is how to approach this. Is it mossy or is it a reform? I would like to take my own side as an example. The Christian Democrats entered the Riksdag in 1991 and have not experienced the battles that have been in 1905, 1914 and in the early 1970s, which led to the Torekov Agreement, but we have to take a stand on the reality that is now. The Christian Democrats then embrace the Torekov Agreement with conviction and enthusiasm and believe that it is a good state of affairs. The King is a historical and unifying symbol that dates back a thousand years in our history. It is not wrong, to put it that way, but it is very right that he, or she, if it is a queen, be able to unite our country above all political contradictions and opinions and represent it outwardly. For this we need to gather and equip the king, or queen, when that is the case, with tools to be able to represent and perform his tasks in a good way. I believe that this reform should be seen as part of strengthening our community with the King as a gathering symbol of the country at a time when the world is uncertain. Foreign power practices aggressively, and we have populism within our own country. Then we need everything that collects, and the king obviously collects us. And we are all united in the Torekov Agreement, which says that the king has no political power but the mandate and power to unite and stand up for Sweden against our world. Celebrating a temporary flag day sounds great, doesn't it? The Christian Democrats, like the other parties, enthusiastically support this. We are proud and grateful for 100 years of full democracy. Of course there were parts of it before. There have been many years before, there has been democracy in smaller contexts, but not in the state. But now that Sweden has had democracy with both men's and women's voting rights, we want to join in celebrating it, and a temporary flag day to celebrate the centenary of democracy we are happy to join in. It is also reasonable for us to look at the size of the royal house and the monkey goat, that we try to focus on giving the head of state the tools needed when it comes to apenaget and not spreading it out to a growing crowd and thereby inflating government. We agree with the review. As for the order system, one could argue that it is mossy. The Christian Democrats have not been involved in either introducing, abolishing or limiting it. However, we wholeheartedly support the proposed reform. Why? Because it is good that the state encourages, recognizes, and highlights people who do something out of the ordinary. If so, how do you do it? Like the Nobel Prize, should you give a lot of money to someone who has done something special? If you really have done something out of the ordinary, it may not be measured in money – no shadow over the Nobel Prize. However, in a way generally accepted, one can honor with a medal, with one word, with a recognition. What is behind this? Well, our joint confirmation that what you did was good, that we are behind it and want to thank you. It is not possible to compare this with honoring someone with a work of art or a crystal vase. This is on a completely different level. It is a question of honouring someone for praiseworthy efforts, and it further strengthens the king's position. How? Well, the king has the opportunity to honor someone on behalf of the entire state. Why? The King presents the arrangements, and that's a good thing. He does it with the Nobel Prize, and he does it with the sequences but on behalf of the elected government. In this way, I think the King somehow appears as a clearer link back in history but also forward in the face of pressures that our country may face.
i-cb5758eafe9e0e57-820	Mr President, I would like to Former speakers have gone through quite a lot in the committee initiative on the public reward system, the flag days and the limitation of the number of officers in the royal house. I will reflect a little more on this. In the past, there was an automatic limitation of the size of the royal house by what we think today very outdated provisions on succession. On the other hand, we did not have female succession; on the other hand, we had a provision that we could not marry the daughter of a third man, that is, someone who did not belong to a prince's house. Then you'd get out of line. When the succession order is applied in this way, the royal house is quite severely restricted. For example, Gustav VI Adolf, who had many sons. One of them even had to refrain from getting married so that there would be a prince alongside our present king, leading to a personal tragedy. All his brothers lost both the Order of Seraphim and titles for marrying out of love. That's what the succession order looked like. Then the royal house was automatically limited, and there was no concern that the monkeynail would spread to too many. When the Russian Czar saw in the 19th century that the Russian emperor family was growing tremendously and that the Russian treasury was exposed to widespread threats by a house of emperors too large, he realized that a restriction was necessary. Now that we see the consequences of the modernisation of our succession regime that has taken place, we must realise the same. The landscapes are soon not enough for all duchess and duchess, and to reclaim Finland to get duchys so that it is enough is not a solution. Instead, the solution lies in a limitation of the size of the royal house. If we are to have legitimacy for our present state of affairs, and we are familiar with the Torekovs agreement, we must also safeguard this legitimacy. This requires that we also have to see the problems that are emerging as a result of the changes that have been made to the succession regime. Another issue that has been discussed is the general days of the flag. Traditionally, the general days of the flag were mainly of religious origin or attached to the royal house. Several parties have pressed for new flag days, and recently the veteran's day was introduced. If we are to introduce new flag days that celebrate appropriate things in society, we must be prepared to review which of the traditional royal and religious flag days we can renounce. Then we should consider whether, at a change of throne, it is reasonable for the boy from Ockelbo's birthday and name day to become flag days. It doesn't feel like that for a modern Swede. For the legitimacy of the system, then, it is also reasonable for us to review the rules for the general days of the flag. The order system that existed until the 1970s was obsolete. If you became a director you got a vasatrist, you got up a grade of service you got a band to put on and you got up a grade to you got something for the neck too. This became a little ridiculous, and the reward system lost respect. Around the world, however, there are this kind of reward system, and quite a few municipalities in Sweden hand out medals. From my time as local councillor, I know that people who are passionate about an issue in an association or similar value such a medal. I myself have received a Finnish word for efforts for the Finnish language in Sweden. When the Finnish President contacted me about it – it didn't matter that it was a week before an election day in a city with 20 per cent Finnish speaking; it was all right – it was very pleasing and a recognition for a work effort. I think there is reason to consider whether we cannot properly draw attention to events. As a compensation for the abolition of order, a fairly unregulated flora of medals has emerged in the defence and government. Even the king's Seraphim have gained a different meaning than it had previously. There is a need to review this whole flora in the context of the review, although it is an order of a more modern cut. I support the KU's proposal.
